My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister in Charge of Tourist Activities. Is the Minister aware that in most Pacific countries the provision of tourism facilities is rewarded through taxation deductions for the initial cost of buildings, maintenance andrenovations? Will the Government consider extending the Australian taxation provisions to allow similar deductions for those engaged in the tourist industry in Australia in view of the potential of the industry to earn foreign exchange? 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the MinisterinCharge of Tourist Activities. Did the Minister make a statement at the recent Port Moresby meeting of the Australian Tourist Council that he would convey to the Prime Minister a request from that Council for special Federal aid for the development of tourist resorts? Could he equate such a request with the plight of the Gold Coast City Council and shire councils on the north coast of New South Wales which need such urgent funds to enable them to combat serious beach erosion? Would such local government requests in tourist areas qualify for such aid? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. The 10c weekly subscription and the annual subscriptions to the Queensland Ambulance Transport Brigade have been rejected as an income tax concession. Why did the Treasurer sanction this rejection? What is the possibility of having the concession restored? 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation: As Eagle Farm Airport is unable to receive jumbo jets will the Minister consider improving the facilities there to assist the more efficient processing of overseas tourist traffic to Queensland? Will the Minister also consider modernising country airports in Queensland, where the tourist trade is very important, by lengthening and strengthening existing runways whereby more modern aircraft can bc accommodated? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement by the Treasurer of Queensland, the Honourable  Sir Gordon  Chalk, M.L.A., that the Queensland Government might find it difficult to provide power at 'a really competitive rate' because of shortage of State funds and the high interest rates to be paid to the Commonwealth? Would the Minister indicate whether the rate of interest charged by the Commonwealth Government is as a result of discussion between the Commonwealth and the State, and that the statement by  Sir Gordon  Chalk could be regarded as a denial of a mutual agreement between the Commonwealth and Queensland? 
I would need more information before I could answer this question; and I think that 1 would need to submit it to the Treasurer. I am not clear from the question whether the answer the honourable senator seeks is linked with the matter of power. I am rather inclined to pause and wonder whether the part of his question regarding interest rates is related to interest rates associated with the financing of some power schemes. Normally interest rates are set, together with other matters affecting the Commonwealth and the States, at Premiers Conference or Loan Council level. However, subsequent to question time I might raise this matter with the honourable senator to see whether his question relates strictly to interest rates on the broad canvas. If it does 1 would like to refer his question to the Treasurer for consideration and reply. 
Has the Minister representing the Treasurer seen a recent survey on poverty by Professor Henderson of the University of Melbourne which shows that in 1966 Australia spent 5.6 per cent of the gross national product on social welfare, compared with 14.7 per cent in the Common Market countries and 6.3 per cent in New Zealand; that in 1969 the Australian percentage was only 5.3- 
 Let me say at the outset that I am deeply sensible of the honour of being elected to the Senate. My satisfaction is more complete as it is my honour to represent Queensland. I believe that Queensland, with its vast natural resources, mineral development and rapidly expanding tourist industry will play a very important part in the future growth and progress of Australia. This afternoon I address myself particularly to the electors of Queensland on account of the confidence they placed in me in November at the Senate elections. I am very grateful to them and I would like to assure them that I will at all times to the best of my ability endeavour to carry out my parliamentary duties. I feel perfectly sure that at the end of my term I will be able to give a good account of my stewardship. 
I also address myself to members of the Australian Labor Party, particularly in Queensland. I have in mind the thousands of workers who give unselfishly of their time and are unstinting in their support over a long period of years and in their services to the Party that I am proud to represent. They  man  the polling booths, distribute literature and give many other services during election campaigns. Their only reward is to see their representatives elected to the parliaments of Australia. To them I express my heartfelt thanks and deep gratitude. 
The trade union movement played  a  sterling part in pre-selection procedures and during the election campaign. I am grateful to them for my ultimate election to the Senate. I have been  a  trade unionist all my working life and I believe that only those people who have been closely  associated  with the trade union movement know the requirements of the working class people of Australia. I will return to that subject later in my  address.  I offer my thanks also to the officials of the Commonwealth Electoral Office - the presiding officers, the poll clerks and all the other officials who give such efficient and impartial service and play an important part  in  the conduct of an election. I would be remiss if I, did not especially mention  Mr Ivan  Weise, the Commonwealth Electoral Officer in Queensland. By his administrative ability and impartiality he has won the respect and confidence of all political parties in the conduct of elections. 
This is my maiden speech in the Parliament and in it I propose to deal with 4 main subjects - poverty, the trade unions, tourism and sport. I am fully aware that there are many other important subjects warranting the attention of this Parliament, such as immigration, foreign affairs, health and education and I hope that at a later stage I will be given an opportunity to canvass them. On the subject of poverty, recently a survey was undertaken by the Applied Institute of Economic and Social Research under Professor Henderson at the University of Melbourne. It was the first survey of its kind undertaken in Australia. It was felt that Melbourne would be suitable for the survey as the greatest proportion of our population is located in the cities. It was felt that the results gained in Melbourne could be applied to the other capital cities and would give an indication of the position in urban Australia. The survey concentrated on private dwellings and did not take into account institutional accommodation such as hospitals, hostels and boarding houses. It took no account of the Aboriginal population of Melbourne. I am sure all honourable senators are aware that the incidence of poverty amongst Aboriginals is very high. Honourable senators will therefore appreciate that the results of the survey understate the position because of the failure lc take into account institutional accommodation and the Aboriginal population. 
For the purposes of the survey, poverty was classified as lack of an adequate income. For the purpose of fixing a poverty line, the people conducting the survey decided to take as the base the weekly income of a man with a wife and 2 children, which was below the basic wage plus child endowment, as at 30th June 1969. The poverty line was fixed at $40 a week for such a family. It is clear that the poverty line as fixed by the survey is very austere and unchallengeable. The survey shows that poverty existed among people who were beneficiaries of social service cash payments. The percentage of poverty ranged between 4.5, in areas of extreme poverty, to 14 in areas where there was less hardship. The survey indicted that an average of between 7 and 8 per cent of the population is living below the poverty line in the community. 
Anybody with any degree of humanitarianism must be alarmed and appalled by the statistics of the survey. It is all very well to say that in the United States of America and the United Kingdom the percentage of poverty is a great deal higher, but we should be concerning ourselves with the existence of poverty in this country. This is a young and rich land with an abundance of natural resources. We have great mineral development and prosperous industries, yet the average incidence of poverty in our population is between 7 per cent and 8 per cent. I hear people in this chamber and in other places make very pious appeals for assistance to underprivileged peoples in other countries. I agree with those sentiments. There should be an alleviation of poverty in other lands. In fact poverty should be eliminated. But we have a responsibility to our own people. We should eliminate the 8 per cent of poverty here in Australia. Having corrected that, we then look elsewhere and see what we can do in other lands. It is all right to stand in this chamber and make emotional speeches about poverty and other things, but we have to come up with an alternative idea for correcting these things. I intend to outline a proposition. 
I said earlier that the main areas of poverty are those places where the people are social service beneficiaries. We know where the seat of the trouble is and we should be able to come up with an idea to correct it. My suggestion is based on the survey I mentioned. If the proposals outlined in the report of that survey had been applied to the whole of Australia in 1968-69 the total cost of eliminating poverty in the areas where it has been discovered would have amounted to $189m or . 7 per cent of the gross national product. That is not a lot of money when we talk of 4 figure millions in budgets. All that was required to eliminate poverty in Australia was $189m or . 7 per cent of the gross national product. 
I do not want to weary honourable senators with a lot of detailed statistics but those who conducted the survey proposed to increase the child endowment rate for the third and subsequent children by $2. If this policy was adopted and the tax concession for children was abolished the amount needed to eliminate poverty in Australia in our time wouldbe reduced from$1 89m to $100m. Let us reflect on $100m. I know that the wool growing industry is in dire distress and is in need of help. I know that a lot of other things require financial attention. This Government has been able to come to the assistance of the wool growers and pull $100m out of the sky. I submit in this maiden speech,  Mr President,  that the Government should be able  to  find $100m for the poor and underprivileged people of Australia. The Government spent $500,000 on the spout in Lake Burley Griffin which, I admit, has aesthetic beauty. If we multiplied that sum by 200 we would have the $100m for our people. 
It is a blot on a nation such as Australia that we have an incidence of 8 per cent poverty. By spending $100m it could be eliminated and, as I said earlier, that sum represents . 7 per cent of the gross national product. Most of the cost could be offset. Our cash contribution to social services in 1968-69 represented 5.3 per cent of the gross national product. If we were to restore it to 5.9 per cent - the percentage con tributed to social services in the 4-year period from 1960-61 to 1963-64 - we would be going a long way towards alleviating hardship and eliminating poverty in our time. The figures I have quoted are important. As I have said, Australia in 1968-69 spent 5.3 per cent of its gross national product on social welfare, and I suggest that we should lift that percentage to 5.9 and bring it in line with what was spent in those 4 years from 1960 to 1964. 1 am not asking for any greater contribution than was previously made. 
There are strong grounds for the Government to consider uplifting the amount spent on social welfare. We must take into consideration the fact that 14.7 per cent of the gross national product of the countries in the European Common Market is spent on social welfare. In a country nearer to home, New Zealand, 6.3 per cent of the gross national product is spent on social welfare. I appeal to honourable senators to look to the future. I hope that the raising of these questions will make them sensitive and aware of the existence of poverty, and that when the opportunity presents itself in future Budget talks they will try to persuade the Government to uplift the proportion of our gross national product that is being spent on social welfare and thus alleviate hardship and eliminate poverty in Australia in our time. 
I would like to devote the second part of my speech to the trade union movement. It has a history and tradition of activity on behalf of organised workers in Australia which is unequalled by any other organisation in the Commonwealth. The movement does not condone useless strikes or inflict unnecessary hardship on its members. Industrial disputes represent only a small item of trade union activity, but unfortunately it is the item that receives wide Press publicity while all the other activities of the trade union movement pass without recognition. In any given day the trade union movement negotiating in industrial disputes solves thousands of problems on behalf of its members - social injustice, wage injustice, incorrect payment of wages, victimisation, unjust sacking and finding of employment for many members. The trade union movement contributes to countless charities. Its officers and members are continually engaged in community service. They sit on committees, more often than not unpaid, which deal with employer-employee relations, and on countless other organisations in the community that are interested in the social and economic welfare of our society. The Government readily admits that many of its most important committees are unable to function without the full support and cooperation of the trade union movement. 
The trade union movement will not and cannot accept restrictions upon its right to involve itself in the political life of the community. As the organised strength of the lower and middle income workers, trade unions have an obligation to exercise their civic responsibility. The standard of living of the Australian people depends upon the strong demands of the unions for improved conditions, social services, education, housing and a host of other things. Trade unions initiate the demands and they need to have the Australian Labor Party in government to implement their policies. This is the basis of the trade union movement. It initiates the demands and looks to the Australian Labor Party in government to implement them. Consider our archaic social services and the lag in this country when compared with others as revealed in the statistics I quoted earlier. We lag behind European and American countries. 
Australian workers are expected to live on $17.50 a week upon retirement after 50 years service. This is what is handed out to men after 50 years of service. No-one in this chamber can deny that a worker is entitled to a retirement allowance many times above that which he receives now after such a period of faithful and loyal service. He should be entitled to full pay when he is off work through sickness or injury. He should be entitled to free medical treatment, free education for his children, guaranteed employment and decent homes. These are political issues. Surely no honourable senator would challenge the right of the trade union movement to intercede in these matters. Surely no-one would challenge the right of the trade union movement to interest itself in these matters. Here and outside I have heard the Government attack the trade union movement for its stand on apartheid. History will prove the trade union movement right in relation to apartheid, just as history has proved the trade union movement right in its stand in opposing the shipment of pig iron to Japan, in its support of independence for Indonesia and in its stand in opposition to the phoney war in Vietnam. The Australian Labor Party is proud of its association with the trade union movement. I hope that while I am a member of this Senate I will be able to work to see a strengthening of the great ties that exist between the Australian Labor Party and that most important section of the working class - the trade union movement. 
The third subject with which I deal is tourism. It is the most rapidly expanding and dynamic industry in Australia at present. It is ranked as the 9th largest foreign exchange earner. For the State that I am proud to represent, Queensland, it is one of our major industries. Its growth has taken place in the absence of the financial assistance and rewards that have been given to other industries. The Australian! Tourist Commission was formed in 1967. Despite the fact that it was hampered by having had 3 different ministerial heads since then, it was still able to work and to gain further prominence for the tourist industry. In 1968 and 1969 the number of international visitors to Australia was 387,197. Australia earned $116m, equal to what it earned from the dairying and canned fruit industries. The Commonwealth Statistician tells us that by 1975 we will earn from international tourists $300m a year and that 700,000 overseas visitors annually will come to our shores. It has been claimed and supported by the strongest authenticated statistical evidence that the tourist industry is the biggest single business in the world today, earning $14 billion a year. 
This Parliament is charged with the responsibility of doing something to increase our share of this rapidly expanding tourist market. With the advent of the jumbo jets that are now landing at Tullamarine and Sydney, we will attract greater numbers - thousands - particularly from America. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  in answer to a question recently, admitted that he hopes that the jumbo jets will soon be landing in Brisbane. That will boost the tourist industry. There is a responsibility on this Parliament to do something to help the tourist industry to attract overseas visitors. One of the main problems to be tackled is the high cost of travel both to and within Australia. There is a need for promotional or concessional fares in appropriate circumstances. There is a need for improved accommodation and convention facilities. We must pay attention to the inadequacies relating to resort development, the specialised training for members of the industry and the disability borne by the industry because it has not been given the incentives that are available in many other industries. These are some of the things that we, as a responsible Parliament, have to touch upon. 
In the time remaining at my disposal I deal very briefly with some of the tourist items on the home front. On the home scene the Commission has been active with posters, publications, films and surveys. It has reported on a tourist plan for central Australia, a study of the Great Barrier Reef and a survey of the Port MacquarieHastings region. All this is good. Let me in my speech today make some mention of that wonderful 26-mile stretch of golden beach in the State that I am proud to represent - the Gold Coast of Queensland - which is unequalled anywhere in the world. Among tourist authorities, the Gold Coast is accepted as the tourist capital of Australia. Many feel that it can justifiably lay claim to being the tourist capital of the southern hemisphere. I crave the indulgence of the Senate to give a few statistics to support this claim that the Gold Coast is the tourist capital of Australia. 
It is the most rapidly growing area in Australia, apart from the Australian Capital Territory. In 1945 there were 10,000 residents on the Gold Coast. In 1960 there were 30,000. In 1970 there were 70,000. It is estimated that by 1975 there will be 100,000. By 1990 the number will have reached the 250,000 mark. Each year 2.5 million visitors visit the Gold Coast. On every public holiday its population explodes by another 200,000. Less than 30 years ago there were very few houses in Surfers Paradise. To the end of June 1970 building investment grossed $11 lm for the preceding 5 years. The boom which began in the last decade resulted in a total of $172m being ploughed into Gold Coast buildings. Tourism in this area is worth S85m annually. The 3,000 establishments accommodating 120,000 people, with a capital investment of $150m in 10 years, tell the success story of this Gold Coast city. Nevertheless, as with tourist buildings elsewhere, there is a discordant note. The city is concerned to see no depreciation and taxation concessions allowed in respect of tourist accommodation buildings. These buildings age and become obsolete much more quickly and require greater maintenance and renovation expenditure in their lifetime than the general run of industrial or office buildings. 
I have 3 or 4 recommendations which from time to time I will be urging and putting enthusiastically in this chamber. I hope that the Government will consider favourably the provision of special assistance by way of subsidy to local authorities which provide tourist facilities and amenities so that the cost is not borne fully by the local ratepayers. I hope that the Government will consider allowing depreciation on new buildings and maintenace and renovation to be allowed as a tax deduction, as is the case with accommodation centres in tourist areas in other countries, particularly our strongest competitor, the Pacific countries. I hope that the Government will consider favourably the establishment of a tourist development loan fund similar to that in operation in New Zealand. I hope that the Government will consider favourably the proposal that Australian National Line passenger ships should provide tourist cruises to north Queensland during the winter months. I thank honourable senators for their attention and for allowing me to engage in some parish pump activity in putting the case for the Gold Coast. 
I come now to the last portion of my maiden speech, and that deals with sport. I suppose many who know me will feel that this is a subject on which I am possibly better equipped to speak than I am on anything else. That would be due to my very proud association with rugby league - the greatest game of all - in Queensland. It is my honour to be the  President  of the Queensland Rugby League. This is the game which is referred to, quite good humouredly, by our friends south of the border as 'wrestle on the run'. We, just as good humouredly, refer to their game as aerial ping-pong'. Only last evening, when I had the pleasure of watching on film in the Senate Club Room South Sydney playing Manly in the rugby league grand final in Sydney last year, someone whispered to me: 'It will not be anywhere near as good as the day Collingwood plays the Moscow Circus'. I do not know what he meant by that, but I thought he had a good sense of humour. I enjoyed it. 
But, to become serious, sport will play an ever increasing role in our quality of life in the future. With automation, push button industry and the natural reduction in working hours, people will have more leisure time. Some people are gravely concerned. They say that we will have a leisure crisis. I do not go along with that. But I do believe - I have been convinced of this by my experiences in association with sport - that we have to do something worthwhile regarding people being involved or occupied in their free time. Involving people becomes a question of finance, as is the case in so many other matters. Many people can become involved; others cannot. It is the old story that those who have get and those who have not cannot get. So, it now becomes the responsibility of governments, both State and Federal, to study this question in depth, as the experts say. 
I am appealing to the national Parliament to carry out a study in depth of sport in Australia. The extra leisure time that is on our hands as a result of the reduced working hours and the new methods of the industrial revolution has to be occupied. It has now become the responsibility of the national Parliament to come up with a proposed policy for sport in Australia. We will have to commission a task force for sport. It will take the members of that task force some considerable time to explore and investigate all the ramifications of sport. The national Parliament is faced with this responsibility: For the 1970s and onwards it will have to come up with a proposed policy for sport in Australia. No longer can governments, whether State or Federal, leave it to the thousands of people who, in a voluntary capacity, week in and week out, every year, raise thousands of dollars to support sport in their States. 
I know that New South Wales is more fortunate than most other States. It has poker machines. This helps sport considerably. We in Queensland do not have poker machines. So the finance for sport has to be raised in other ways. It is left to thousands of voluntary workers to raise this money. They have been doing it for years in Queensland by chook raffles. I submit to this chamber quite seriously that in every city in Queensland there should be erected a monument to the chook, because without the chook raffles there would be no sport in Queensland or sport would be on its knees. This situation cannot be allowed to continue. Sport is becoming big business not only because of the amount of leisure time but with the introduction of sports medicine. I refer to sport on the international, interstate, inter-city and inter-club levels. It can no longer be financed in a voluntary manner by people selling chook raffle tickets. It becomes the responsibility of the Federal Government to introduce a proposed policy for sport and to commission a committee, which could be called a task force for support, to survey, investigate and report. 
There is an equal responsibility on the State parliaments. I am very happy to say that New South Wales has seen the light before all the other States. A ministry of sport has been established in that State. I hope that the pressures that are mounting in Queensland will persuade the Government of that State of the worthiness and desirability of having a ministry of sport. All the major sports organisations in Queensland have banded together to form a major sports association with the intention of making approaches to the Government for the establishment of a sports foundation with an initial grant of, say, a quarter of a million dollars. The money would be invested in securities and the interest on it would be used to finance the various sports and to bring about the improvements that are necessary. This situation is facing us. It can no longer be denied or shunned by any goverment, whether State or Federal. The time has arrived when all sports - all codes of football, cricket, athletics and so on - have to receive the support and backing of the Government. 
Along with this change of policy in the country we see the emergency of activity medicine - a new field of medicine - and the Australian Sports Medicine Association. It had its annual meeting at the Broadbeach Hotel on the Gold Coast last weekend. The meeting was attended by representatives from all States as well as a representative from New Zealand and one from India. The ramifications and work of the Australian Sports Medicine Association are not known to many people in Australia, but it will play such an important role in our every day life and in our quality of life that it will fast become recognised. But it needs funds. It will control the fitness and expertise of sport on an international basis as well as at the interstate and inter-club levels. 
If any honourable senator becomes health conscious and feels that he would like to jog around the parks of Canberra of a morning or to walk briskly somewhere, he pauses before endeavouring to do this because he feels that, on account of his age, if he rushes in he might not be up to it physically. But one of the purposes of sports medicine is to detail and tabulate how a man between 40 and SO years of age can make a gradual approach to sport and how he can make a gradual approach to getting fit. I have not the time at my disposal to deal with as many of the ramifications of sports medicine as I would like to deal with. I will be introducing this subject in this chamber on a later occasion - possibly when we are considering the estimates of the Department of Health - and I will be looking for some support from an honourable senator who, together with the Executive Adviser to the Brisbane City Council and myself, is a life member of the Queensland Sports Medicine Association. In fact, we three are the only life members of the Association. I refer to  Senator Gair.  I hope that at a later stage in the lifetime of this Parliament he will make some contribution towards advancing the cause, because financial assistance is definitely needed. 
As I said, on this first occasion I do not propose to weary honourable senators with a great litany of all the wonderful things the Australian Sports Medicine Association can do and what Australia's role has to be in the future. But in this maiden speech I would appreciate the opportunity to put certain recommendations before honourable senators for their consideration. I believe that we should establish a Commonwealth ministry for physical culture, sport and recreation, the responsibilities of which would include, firstly, making grants to States to ensure adequate facilities for all physical culture and sports programmes; secondly, making grants to States to ensure that national fitness councils are provided with adequate finance for promoting physical fitness campaigns; thirdly, making grants to State and national physical culture groups and sporting teams where such assistance is deemed to be in the general interest of the nation; and, fourthly, arranging the interchange of physical culture groups and sporting teams between Australia and other countries where such groups or teams are selected on other than a racial basis. 
Before I resume my seat I would like to thank honourable senators for the tolerance they have all displayed this afternoon in hearing me make this maiden speech. As I said earlier, it may appear to honourable senators that many more items could have been discussed but I hope that during the lifetime of this Parliament I will be given the opportunity later to advance them. I would be remiss if I did not say that after a week and a half in this Senate chamber how greatly I have been impressed by the dignity and the conduct of the proceedings in this chamber. Since my childhood days I have always been told to have respect for the Chair. That is a message from my parents that I have never forgotten. I must congratulate you,  Mr President,  on the dignified manner in which you preside over this chamber. In conclusion, I thank you and honourable senators for their tolerance. 
My question Is directed to the Minister for Health. What statutory body is responsible for past keepfit campaigns in Australia? Who are the present members of such body, and what are their normal occupations? 
The Commonwealth makes available significant subsidies for national fitness campaigns. Details of the subsidies for this year appear in the Budget papers. As to the balance of the question, that is, about where full responsibility lies, I would need to have prepared a detailed answer because I understand the controlling body has both Commonwealth and State representatives on it. Tomorrow at question time I will respond in more detail. There is provision for a Commonwealth subvention in relation to national fitness campaigns. 
Yesterday I addressed a question to the Minister for Health and today I have a
              question supplementary to that question. The Commonwealth National Fitness Act 1941
              was introduced as a wartime measure. To make it appropriate in today's vastly
              different sedentary existence, will the Minister consider appointing to the
              Commonwealth National Fitness Council specialists in exercise physiology, coronary
              heart disease and sports medicine? 
The amount of money included in the estimates this year for national fitness is
            $418,000. That allocation will be dealt with in the Budget context. This amount is made
            up of $350,000 as an operational grant and $68,000 for capital assistance, which is made
            available on a matching basis with State governments, the contribution being $1 by the
            Commonwealth for each $2 by the States. The National Fitness Act authorises the Minister
            to use this money for the purpose of providing assistance, firstly, to encourage the
            development of national fitness in each State under the direction of a national fitness
            council appointed by the government of each State; secondly, to promote physical
            education in schools, universities and other instrumentalities; and thirdly, for such
            other purposes as are consistent with the Act as the Minister determines. I have also a
            statement, which I shall hand to the honourable senator, giving figures to show how the
            money is allocated. 
The bulk of Commonwealth assistance has been directed to State national fitness
            councils which are responsible for conducting the broadly based fitness programmes in
            each State and to universities and State Departments of Education to assist in the
            training of teachers engaged in physical fitness. There is no separate body as such
            responsible for keep fit campaigns in Australia. The Commonwealth Council for National
            Fitness, in conjunction with the State councils, promotes national fitness activities in
            accordance with the powers given to it under the Act, with the limited funds that it has
            at its disposal. The supplementary question asked by the honourable senator suggests
            that in this day and age certain medical groups should in some way be married into the
            Council, the point being that whilst in 1941 the terms of reference might have been
            appropriate, it may well be that now the terms should be much wider. I shall look at
            that aspect and report on it to the honourable senator in due course. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. By way of preface I inform him that occupational therapy in convalescent homes has been projected by the Lions Club of Newmarket, Brisbane, and the activity has improved the general health and mental attitude of many inmates. Will the Minister investigate the possibility of this innovation becoming a permanent feature of our national health scheme? 
I do not think any of us would challenge the efficacy, under certain conditions, of occupational therapy as a very .important contribution to health. 1 would need to direct the question to officers of my Department to get some information before I would make any committal in relation to it. I certainly will do that and will answer the question in due course. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. In view of the great demand by residents of New South Wales, Queensland, Western Australia and the Northern Territory for a direct telecast of the rugby league grand final at Sydney on Saturday, will the Minister investigate why the Australian Broadcasting' Commission has not made an offer of a realistic price for television rights, - as it has in the past with other sports? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. As the rugby league grand final will be played in Sydney on Saturday and time is running out, has the Minister an answer to my question regarding the Australian Broadcasting Commission telecasting the match? 
I support the amendment moved on behalf of the Australian Labor Party by  Senator Brown.  I remind honourable senators that the proposed amendment is precisely identical with the amendment proposed to the Social Services Bill when it was introduced in this chamber on 31st March last. This has not happened by coincidence or accident or because we on this side of the chamber lack drafting ability. It has been done with a purpose - to demonstrate, and protest to the Government in a small way, that members of the Opposition are concerned and disappointed at the Government's failure to come to grips with the problems. Over a period Government supporters have given us hints, promises and suggestions, none of which has been fulfilled. We are still waiting for the Government to come up with a review of conditions or a restructuring of the social service machinery. 
I was indeed pleased to hear  Senator Brown's  pertinent reference to a statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on 15th March last when introducing a pension increase. He promised that there would be a fundamental review of social service and related pensions with the object of making effective decisions for 1971-72. As honourable senators are aware, 1971 is now with us and no such effective decisions have been made. The outline of Budget strategy shows that we cannot look forward to any advance in conditions as a result of the promise of a fundamental review in 1971-72. I agree with  Senator Brown  who pointed out to the Government - and  Senator Webster  did not reply to this point - that it has dishonoured its promise to the many people who are impatiently waiting for and looking forward to an improvement in the system of providing social welfare benefits. 
Such repudiation of promises is not unusual with anti-Labor governments, particularly where the workers' welfare is concerned. Anti-Labor governments have a record of failure to carry out their promises. The Government was swept into office in 1949 on the promise that it would put value back into the £1, but 22 years later that promise remains unfulfilled. The value of pensions as a percentage of average weekly earnings has been steadily eroded.  Senator Webster  challenged the Opposition to give proof of how a Labor government would perform and remedy the injustices outlined by  Senator Brown.  I remind the honourable senator that in 1946, under a Labor Government, the pension of a single pensioner represented 25.5 per cent of average weekly earnings. In 1956, 10 years later, it was down to 21.8 per cent. By 1966 it had fallen further to 21.1 per cent. In 1971, as outlined by  Senator Brown,  it was 18.9 per cent. I must pay credit to the Government for the fact that, as a result of the recent Budget increase, that percentage will rise to 20.4. But, if one were to take into account the Budget assessment of an increase in the average weekly earnings in 1971, that figure would again fall to below the 18.7 per cent level. I recall 

 Senator Brown dramatically making the claim, which incidentally has not been refuted by the Government, that the percentage is at the lowest level in the history of the Commonwealth Parliament in the post-war period. That is not a nice record or reputation for any government to have. It would be obvious to those people who have an encyclopedic mind and are interested in statistics that honourable senators on this side of the chamber have done their homework and done their research. If  Senator Brown  had had more time at his disposal he would have been able to quote more statistics. 1 would like to present for the consideration of honourable senators some statistics regarding child endowment. 1 will relate my remarks to a family with one child under 16 years of age. When child endowment was introduced the percentage in relation to average weekly earnings was 2.6. By 1960-10 years later- the figure had been eroded to 1.1 per cent. But the present figure is startling. It is as low as 0.6 per cent. That alone is condemnation of any government. I could go on and on and paint a picture of the failure of this Government to come to grips with the problems which any government that has any sense of humanitarianism would be intent on solving. I pointed out in my maiden speech that our social service provisions are archaic and compare unfavourably with similar provisions in Europe and America. After 50 years of service a man in Australia is forced to retire on a pension of $17.25 a week. I asked in my maiden speech whether such a man was worthy of a lot more than that. Surely such a man should be entitled during his lifetime as a worker to free hospitalisation, medical services and education and to a full day's pay when he is off due to sickness or an injury. 

 Senator Webster also challenged honourable senators on this side of the chamber to produce figures that show overseas countries are doing more in this field than the Commonwealth Government is doing. I am pleased that he issued that challenge because I wanted to refer to this point in my speech.  Senator Webster  is not in the chamber at the moment, but he will be able to read my remarks in Hansard. As  1  have already said, our performances insofar as the amounts we spend on social welfare compared to the amounts other countries spend is unsatisfactory. The Common Market countries spend 14.2 per cent of their gross national product on social welfare and New Zealand spends 6.3 per cent. But what does Australia spend? In 1969-70 we spent the miserable figure of 5.3 per cent. One does not need to be an Einstein or a mathematical genius to appreciate that Australia's figure of 5.3 per cent compares unfavourably even with New Zealand's figure of 6.3 per cent and certainly with the figure in the Common Market countries of 14.3 per cent. If  Senator Webster  wants any further proof he has only to look at the statistics and make an honest comparison between the situation in Australia and in the countries 1 have mentioned. Where will be the end to this deterioration in Australia? The position is deteriorating annually.  I  have already indicated that 5.3 per cent of the gross national product was spent on social welfare in 1969-70. Between I960 and 1964 it was 5.9 per cent. So there has been an erosion of 0.6 per cent since 1964. 
An interesting observation was made by Professor Henderson, whose name is being bandied around in this chamber pretty liberally these days. Professor Henderson, who is at the University of Melbourne, took out a survey through the services of the Applied Institute of Social and Economic Welfare. It is true, as  Senator Cavanagh  has pointed out, that whilst thai survey  is  a good guideline as to injustices in social services and poverty it was restricted to the Melbourne area and therefore cannot, as  Senator Webster  tried to do in his speech, be quoted as the be all and end all. However, it was assessed that the same conditions as obtained in the Melbourne area could reasonably be expected to apply in other capital cities of Australia. 
The pertinent observation that was made by Professor Henderson was that if the $100m which would be made available if the Government were to restore the percentage of the gross national product spent on social welfare to the figure of 5.9 per cent that was spent between 1960 and 1964 it would go a long way towards alleviating the problems of the 8 per cent of the community which it was found in that survey to be living below the poverty line. It might be of interest to honourable senators to learn that the majority of the people covered by this figure of 8 per cent were social service beneficiaries. I repeat that the pertinent point made by Professor Henderson was that if the percentage of the gross national product paid by way of social service payments were increased from the 5.3 figure of 1969-70 to what it was in 1960-64 the 0.6 per cent difference would go a long way towards alleviating poverty amongst social service beneficiaries. Some relief can and must be given to the underprivileged people who are living below the poverty line. I refer to the age pensioners, the invalid, the sick, the deserted wives and the unmarried mothers. Only the Australian Labor Party is aware of. and interested in the plight of these people. Only the Austraiian Labor Party understands their requirements. Only the return of a Labor government to the Treasury benches will correct these injustices. That is why I cannot for the life of me understand the actions of members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. One of its members was responsible - I give him full credit for this - for writing into the statute books in Queensland some of the most humanitarian reforms in the history of that State. Other members of the Democratic Labor Party repeatedly express concern for the underprivileged and they know in their hearts and minds that only a Labor Government will alleviate the hardships, but by their actions in this chamber they continually keep in government the opponents of the people for whom they express concern and reject always the proposals advanced by the Australian Labor Party. It is about time the members of the Democratic Labor Party stopped humbugging in this chamber and put their votes where their hearts and minds are. 
I am amazed at the actions of the Democratic Labor Party. I have paid credit to its Leader - a man who does stand in credit in his State for the humanitarian legislation that he wrote into the statute books. The other members of the Democratic Labor Party are new to me, but, as I have said and as I shall repeat again,, although I have heard them speaking passionately about great humanitarian causes, every : time the Australian Labor Party presents them with an opportunity to put their vote where it can do some good for the people that they are allegedly concerned about they continually reject Labor's proposal. The only people who are suffering as a result of the DLP's action are the working class people of this country. The sooner the DLP takes stock of itself and acts in a sensible manner and applies a sensible consideration to the social service proposals advanced by the Australian Labor Party the sooner the hardships of the people will be dispelled and social justice be restored to the people of Australia. As common sense and, I take it, decent thinking people, I think there is an onus on members of the DLP to see the light of day and do the right thing by getting with the Labor Party and supporting its humanitarian proposals. 
I have got to know you only since I came into the chamber, little by little. I want to tell you that I am aware of you, and you have as much chance of taking the leadership of the DLP from Vince Gair as you have of flying. He has too much background: he is too smart for you. 
I might not have all the facts but I am gaining them little by little. There are many anomalies in the social services legislation, just as there are anomalies in the Australian Democratic Labor Party - little ones as well as big ones. As I have said, there are many anomalies that must be highlighted in the hope that some action will be taken to remedy them. I am not one of those people who intend to stand in this chamber and blatantly attack the legislation brought down by the Government. I know that because of availability of finance and for other reasons a lot of things are not able to be done, but I do not think there is any harm in honourable senators on this side of the chamber highlighting the anomalies in the Social Services Act with the hope that they may be remedied by bringing attention and notice to them. For instance, an invalid person 16 years or over receives $17.25 a week; a widow over 50 years with no children receives $15.25 a week; a widow under 50 years with no children can receive $15.25 for only 26 weeks and then she receives nothing until she reaches the age of 50 years. If she was 46 when her husband died she receives $15.25 a week for 26 weeks and then has to mark time for the next 3J years before she qualifies for a pension.  Senator Little  will probably suggest that she should go to work. Anyone with common sense would know that a woman of 46 is outside the requirements of the work force. What person would want to employ as a shop assistant a woman of 46 years of age, who had probably been a housewife for 25 of those 46 years, instead of a girl of 21 years of age? 
It might be a good thing to talk about experience, because in the little time that I have been in this chamber I have learnt sufficient about you to be able to handle myself with you. As I said, if a woman of 46 has been a housewife for 25 years how will she find employment? They are some of the anomalies that I would like the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  to make some note of and possibly do something to remedy them. 
Today we are debating proposals which in effect mean little to the vast majority of people. We heard  Senator Brown  tell us that the increase in pension for a single pensioner was $1.25 a week, bringing the pension to $17.25 a week. A married person will receive an increase of $1 a week, bringing the pension to $15.25 a week. The wife's allowance has been increased after 3 years by $1, bringing it to $8 a week. These increases are a great disappointment to approximately 1 million people who were looking forward, as I said earlier, to substantial increases, but again they have been disillusioned by an anti-Labor government. The amounts of these increases were given by  Senator Brown,  but I think they are worth repeating to honourable senators in this chamber. 
To make matters worse, of the 878,000 age, invalid and widowed pensioners in Australia no fewer than 181,000 will receive none of the increase announced in the Budget because of the means test. Another 27,000 will receive only a part increase. Altogether 17 per cent of pensioners will receive no benefit and 22 per cent of age pensioners will go without. This is a scandalous and unforgiveable confidence trick on people who depend on the pension. 
The amendment proposed by  Senator Brown  also proposes a national superannuation scheme and the elimination of the means test. This matter has a very interesting history. Before I outline Labor's proposals, I think [ should analyse some of the history in this field of some of Labor's competitors. I was particularly interested to hear  Senator Brown  enlighten me that as early as 1913 the Cook Government first spoke of a contributory scheme of social insurance. Then he went on to relate that from 1923 to 1928 under the BrucePage Government the promises were resurrected. Then again in 1938 they were revived under the Lyons Government.  Senator Brown  stated that on each occasion the proposals were dropped, usually within a short time. Now that is interesting. But then we find that the Lyons Government actually prepared legislation but, of course, the proposals were dropped again. The punch line came when  Senator Brown  told us the interesting fact that the then Attorney-General,  Mr Menzies,  before whom all the Liberals genuflect, resigned, to quote the words of the 'Sydney Morning Herald', 'as a most emphatic means of registering his protest'.  His  protest was against the dropping of the programme.  Senator Brown  went on to say that in 1944, 1945 and 1949 Menzies, as Leader of the Liberal Party, repeatedly promised to introduce a scheme, but again the promises were fruitless and were unfulfilled. 
Recently the Minister for Social Services made an announcement that he would introduce a national superannuation scheme, but that flew out the window when the Liberal Party turfed John Gorton out. Mention was made by  Senator Webster  of John Gorton, and his remarks were supported by  Senator Cavanagh  by way of interjection. I believe that the former Prime Minister's heart was in the right place. I felt that he was one Liberal Leader who had brought to  the Liberal administration some understanding and some compassion for underprivileged people. I would like to go on record as saying that I believe that the. former Prime Minister had a genuine understanding and consideration for people who were less fortunate than he. Unfortunately, through ructions and infighting within the Liberal Party, he is out and another Prime Minister has replaced him. In keeping. with what happened in 1913 and what has relentessly repeated itself in the years since, the national superannuation scheme again has been pigeon-holed and shelved. That is another promise from the anti-Labor government which has not been fulfilled. We used to have a Labor Premier in Queensland some years ago who used to go to the people with this slogan: What Labor promises, Labor will do. I see nothing different in that regard to the policies held by those people who constitute the great Australian Labor Party today. 
It was Forgan Smith. We will be a little different from our competitors in regard to making promises. As former Labor governments have shown conclusively, we will carry out the promises that we make. 
Before I conclude, I would like to summarise and make some mention of the points that have been outlined by  Senator Brown  on behalf of the Australian Labor Party.  Senator Brown  has moved an amendment, the first paragraph of which states:  the increases proposed are inadequate, 
I believe that this is undoubtedly true. 
Paragraph (2) of this amendment states:  social service payments generally are inadequate to maintain an acceptable standard of living, 
My own personal opinion is that no honourable senator would quarrel with that view. Paragraph (3) states:  steps should be taken immediately to eliminate poverty 
I submit that honourable senators would unanimously agree on this point. Paragraph (4) states:  a national superannuation system should be established and the means test eliminated 
This is long overdue and would be implemented by a Labor government. Paragraph (S) states:  pension payments should be a proportion of average weekly earnings adjusted annually 
This is Labor policy also. Our Leader,  Mr Whitlam,  when electioneering during the 1969 general election campaign made the promise that when Labor was returned to government it would see that the percentage relationship between the average weekly earnings and the pension payments would remain static at 25 per cent. This figure is a little different to the 18.7 per cent which is handed out by the Government today.  Mr Whitlam  said that he would tie the pension payments to the fluctuations in the cost of living and alterations in the wage structure. Another promise made in 1969 was that Labor would restore the relationship to the weekly wage of the pension payment to 25 per cent. I again repeat that this figure is vastly different from the miserable amount of 18.7 per cent which is offered by our opponents today. The last paragraph of the amendment is very important. It will give the members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party a chance to show their mettle. It will enable them to show the people of Australia how genuine they arc in their advocacy to do something for the great majority of people in this country - the working class people. This is the point at which we will test their genuineness. Paragraph (6) states:  a joint select committee should be established to inquire into and report upon the social welfare needs of the Australian community. 
Such an inquiry, although belated, would be very acceptable. I strongly and enthusiastically support the content of the amendment moved by  Senator Brown. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. Will the Minister request a breakdown of the figure of 49 per cent of youths rejected for Army service in order to ascertain what percentage of the total number of rejects had physical infirmities and what the prevalent ailments were? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. How does the Minister relate the figures issued by the Department of Labour and National Service showing that 49 per cent of Australian youth do not meet Army physical standards with his claim that the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness is providing adequate physical recreation facilities and activities? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI would say at first flush in response to the honourable senator's question that the standards set down by those who examine people called up for national service are particularly high. Those of us who went through the line in years gone by know that even under different circumstances, when there was a tremendous patriotic upsurge of people offering themselves for service, there were rejections for a variety of things extending from your toes right up to the top of your head. I do not think I need to go into the whole host of reasons for which people were rejected. But a vastly different proposition is involved here. The national fitness bodies encourage young people to attain fitness. They encourage the tutors at rational fitness camps to give guidance and instruction to the young on physical fitness. I do not reject the honourable senator's question, but 1 think that there is a nice difference between the two. 
As a small personal item, I add that 1 regard myself as being a resonably fit person, but when I first submitted myself for the Australian Imperial Force I was rejected because of some oddity 1 had. However, 1 subsequently gave  5i  years service - 34 years of it in a very hard way. I have brought that out only to make the point that there is a complete distinction between the fitness required by the Services and what a national fitness camp may set out to do. 
asked the Minis  ter representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Why have subscriptions to the Queensland Ambulance Transport Brigade been rejected as a deduction from income for taxation purposes. 
What is the possibility of having the deduction restored. 
and (2) Subscriptions to the Queensland Ambulance Transport Brigade are not allowable deductions under the provisions of the income tax law and have never been allowable. In these circumstances, the question of restoring a deduction previously allowed does not arise. 
Requests for an amendment of the existing law to allow income tax deductions for subscriptions to the Queensland Ambulance Transport Brigade were examined during the preparation of the recent Budget. In the prevailing economic conditions, and having regard to the need to increase rates of income tax generally, it was not found possible to accede to these requests. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement by the Treasurer of Queensland (the Honourable  Sir Gordon  Chalk, M.L.A.) that the Queensland Government might find it difficult to provide power at a really competitive rate because of the shortage of State funds and the high interest rates to be paid to the Commonwealth. 
Are the rates of interest charged by the Commonwealth Government a result of discussions between the Commonwealth and theStates; if so, could the statement by  Sir Gordon  Chalk be regarded as a denial of a mutual agreement between the Commonwealth and the State of Queensland. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
As a result of the honourable senator's question my attention has been drawn to a brief report to this effect which appeared in the Brisbane Courier-Mail of 25th August 1971. 
It is not clear precisely which loans are the subject of the press report. Rates of interest paid by the States on their Loan Council borrowing programmes are determined by that body after discussion between its members. Rates of interest paid on loan assistance provided by the Commonwealth to the States for special projects, such as the Gladstone power station (which projectwas mentioned specifically in the press report), are as set out in agreements between the Commonwealth and the State concerned. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing. Since the introduction in 1969 of the dwellings for. aged per? sons scheme, what funds have been allocated to Queensland for that purpose?: Has any provision been made, for the City of the Gold Coast? 
Will the Minister for Health advise the Senate of the occupations of members of the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness and the period of each member's appointment? 
Yes, I shall be happy to provide that information. Rather than wait to present it in the Senate, I would be perfectly happy to have the information sent direct to the honourable senator, if that is his wish. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. The Council of the University of Melbourne has decided to abolish the diploma of physical education course and the University will not accept first year students to the course after next year. In view of a likely leisure crisis as a result of automation and push button techniques in industry- 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Is it a fact that the cost of telephone calls and other charges are different in certain sections of the Gold Coast from those applying in Brisbane? If so, will the Postmaster-General review the zoning of the Gold Coast to correct this extremely iniquitous system? 
This morning I sought leave to speak in relation to the report on the operations of the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act 1969. 
 Mr Deputy President,  this morning when the report under the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act 1969 was tabled I sought leave to make a statement. I again seek leave to make that short statement. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - ls leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I thank honourable senators. I am taking this step because I am shocked by the information which is contained in the annual report on operations under the Act to which I have referred. I am shocked because the figures that I shall cite to the Senate will show that of all the State governments in Australia the Queensland Government is the one government which has shown no interest in the proposal to build self-contained units for certain aged pensioners. It is the only government that has shown no sympathy for thousands of aged and under-privileged people who live in sub-standard accommodation in Queensland in numbers proportionate to the numbers in other States. I am shocked at the news that this aspect of home building has been completely ignored by the Bjelke-Petersen Government. 
I shall now refer to some figures to prove what I have said. On 27th September 1969 the Governor-General gave assent to a Bill to provide $25m by way of grants to the Sates to provide self-contained units for certain pensioners. The schedule to that Bill showed that $3,350,000 was to be set aside for grants to the Queensland Government. In the first annual report for the year ended on 30th June 1970, which was tabled in this chamber, we were told that 665 units had been constructed throughout the various Slates of the Commonwealth other than in Queensland. The report generously said that proposals were currently being developed in Queensland. This morning the second report for the year ended on 30th June 1971 was tabled. From that report we learn that approval has been given for, and construction completed of, 1,433 units at a cost of $8.5m but that the princely number of 18 units had been built in Queensland, that is, 18 out of 1,433. Of the $3,350,000 available to the Queensland Government by way of grants under this Act, that Government has seen fit to avail itself of about $130,000 only. 
I am claiming that while the Queensland Government is ignoring homes for the aged, though professing to be a government which represents the ordinary person in the community, it has engaged in a bewildering number of costly and in many instances unnecessary expenditures. Some hundreds of thousands of dollars were spent in Queensland to purchase and maintain a private aircraft for the Premier. In his most recent Budget the State Treasurer made provision for a development fund to improve the real property of race clubs and to provide amenities for their members. If the State Government needs money for housing it could review the royalties payable on Queensland's mineral wealth, instead- of accepting an ice cream for a ton of coal. Hundreds of thousands of dollars were spent on accommodation for more police than were required during the Springbok tour, and this money was easily found. 
In exposing this situation I sincerely hope that the Queensland Government will pull up its socks and face up to its responsibility to pensioners. Let it show some compassion for the people who are urgently in need of good shelter. During the recent state of emergency in Queensland it appalled me to hear my State referred to as the police State. That was bad enough. But now to hear it referred to as the peasant State is just too much. 1 feel that all honourable senators from Queensland will share my view that at this point the Queensland Government must give some account to the people of Queensland as to why it has not availed itself of the $3,350,000 grant from the Commonwealth to the State to provide self-contained units for pensioners at a rental of $3.50 per week. It should explain to people why it has not availed itself of this finance to provide homes for underprivileged people. The record of the Queensland Government is shown in this report to be a bad one. In 2 years the State has built 18 units, out of a total of 1,433 which have been constructed throughout the Commonwealth. Queensland's effort has been equal to one-ninth of South Australia's effort, one-sixth of Western Australia's effort and one-third of Tasmania's effort. This is not good enough. I suggest that the national Parliament should ask the Queensland Government whether it is interested in continuing with the scheme and, if it is, when it intends to do something to provide homes for pensioners, as is being done in every other State. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that the Commonwealth National Fitness Council arranged to have a youth survey to determine the fitness of young Australians? If this is so, when will the findings be made available? 
Will the Minister for Health advise the Senate of the amount of subsidy paid to each State National Fitness Council during 1970 under the Commonwealth scheme which offers $66,000 for capital assistance on a $1 for $2 basis for the redevelopment of old camps and the acquisition of new sites? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONYes, I shall get that information and make it available to the honourable senator. As I do not expect that we will be in session next week I shall try to get the information and make it available to him directly within the next several days. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is the formation of airport security committees at major airports in Queensland completed? If so, are the measures that are being developed to combat aircraft hijacking and sabotage sufficient to enable adequate law enforcement at these airports? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Will the Government call for the results of the research being undertaken by North Australia Rubber Mills Ltd of Brisbane which has introduced Australia's first 4-day working week and relate them to the urgent need for a proposed recreation and sports policy for Australia to meet the anticipated leisure crisis due to automation, reduced working week and daylight saving? 
The honourable senator asks whether the Government will call for these results. Perhaps the phrase 'call for the results' is not quite apt. I think it is appropriate that the Government should seek information in relation to a matter which may have an implication for national policy. I shall therefore direct the question to the Minister for Labour and National Service and suggest to him that, pursuant to the honourable senator's question, it would be appropriate to seek the results, impressions or other information available on the point that he raises. 
asked the Minis ter representing the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
What funds have been allocated to Queensland for the provision of housing under the Aged Persons Housing Scheme which was introduced in 1969. 
What funds have been allocated to the City of the Gold Coast under the Scheme. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry tell the Senate which States have passed legislation setting up funds approved under the Fishing Industry Research Act 1969 and the amounts paid by the Commonwealth to each State by way of matching funds for research up to the present time? 
I wish to ask a question of the Attorney-General. When I asked a question earlier regarding pyramid selling 1 was requested to place it on the notice paper and was told by an honourable senator that there is already a question about it on the notice paper. I have searched through the notice paper. While there is a question about pyramid selling on the notice paper it is not in line with the aspect I wish to develop. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Are there different rates for telephone calls between sections of the City of. the Gold Coast and Brisbane; if so, will the Postmaster-General review the zoning of the City of the Gold Coast so as to correct this extremely iniquitous situation. 
asked the Minis ter for Health, upon notice: 
Did the Commonwealth National Fitness Council arrange a youth survey to determine the fitness of young Australians; if so, when will the findings be made available. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Council for National Fitness did arrange for a survey to be conducted into the fitness of Australian secondary school students between the age of 13 and 17 years. Survey testing was carried out with the assistance of the Slate Education Departments in 1969 and 1970 and a draft report to the Council received preliminary consideration at its meeting in June this year. It will receive further consideration at the next meeting ofthe Council which is scheduled for early 1972. At this stage I cannot say when its findings will be made available. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. Does not 
New Zealand's domination of Australia's premier turf event justify a Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation research project into the thoroughbred industry in Australia to find out why New Zealand bred stayers triumph over Australian bred stayers? Does he not agree that such research would go a long way towards restoring confidence in and support for Australian studs? 
I will answer the question in the absence of the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. We do not want to take all the elements of fun and speculation out of the event to which the honourable senator referred. I think that if we stick at it long enough we will breed some stayers. In any event, I think that the role of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation is so tremendous in the life of the nation that it would be a fair while before we could give it the charge of looking at the quality of our bloodstock. As I have said, we do not want to take all the element of sport out of racing. While New Zealand can breed stayers and bring them here, I think it is a great challenge for the studs in Australia. 
Does the Minister for Health recognise that sport and physical recreation represent an increasingly important dimension in our national life? In those circumstances will he arrange for a management consultant study to be carried out dealing primarily with the phi 11.sophy and rationale underlying the justification for Federal involvement in sport and recreation? 

 Senator 
 Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI agree with the first part of the honourable senator's question. I believe as he does, and I am sure others do, that recreation and sport are an integral part of our way of living in Australia. Australia has shown the world the way in many fields of sport and we will continue to do so. As to Commonwealth intervention, the honourable senator has posed questions to me before and he knows that my Department participates in national fitness campaigns. People need to be fit to participate in sport. I do not know to what depth his question goes and I would like to reflect upon it. There may be another element of it of which I am not aware and I would be happy to respond. Yes, the Commonwealth does react to national fitness and implicit in that is the promotion of sporting bodies and healthy bodies. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. Is it a fact that under the financial formula applied to universities, the University of Queensland and the Queensland Government must raise a combined 65 per cent of income to qualify for the 35 per cent assistance granted by the Commonwealth? Is he aware that the Queensland Government, because of special financial difficulties arising from drought and other factors, has indicated that it can provide a maximum of only 42 per cent, leaving the university itself to raise 23 per cent? Is he aware that this is the highest financial burden faced by any university in Australia? To ensure that young Queenslanders do not suffer in the present economic situation confronting their State and their university, will he consider granting an increased number of Commonwealth scholarships to Queensland? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Today I asked a question of the Minister for Education and Science concerning the peculiar financial problem facing the University of Queensland. Is the Minister aware that, because of present economic difficulties, the Queensland Government has applied or is applying for Queensland to be declared a claimant State? Is it a fact that a declaration of this nature would allow Queensland to seek special financial assistance from the Commonwealth to overcome its present financial problem? Will the Minister, in the existing economic situation, consider also reducing the heavy financial burden on the University of Queensland by suspending temporarily or amending the financial formula applying to the percentage of finance which must be raised by the State Government and the University to qualify for Commonwealth assistance? 
The honourable senator has asked a comprehensive question. The judgment that I would make is that rather than the question being directed to the Prime Minister's Department by me it should be broken up into 2 parts. The first part should be directed to the Treasurer because of the implications of the suggested application to declare Queensland a claimant State. The second part of the question which relates to the University of Queensland should be directed to the Minister for Education and Science who deals with such matters. I suggest that the question should go on notice in 2 parts to be dealt with by the relevant Ministers. 
Will it receive an urgent reply? 
If the end result is not satisfactory, the honourable senator may pose the problem to me and I will see whether I can sort it out for him. The critical part of the question as to Commonwealth relationships with States, whether claimant or not, should be directed to the Treasurer. Universities are dealt with by the Minister for Education and Science who is represented in the Senate by  Senator Wright. 
Would you suggest that I put both parts of my question on notice? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONYes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Will the Minister provide a breakdown of the 49 per cent of youths rejected for National Service showing the percentage who had physical infirmities, and the most prevalent ailments. 
Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to the Hitler type tactics of the Australian National Socialist Party, also known as the Australian Nazi Party, at an Australian Council of Churches conference on racism held on the Gold Coast last weekend? Is the Minister also aware of the activities of extremist groups known as the Australian League of Rights and the National Civic Council in country and provincial areas in Queensland? In order to alert people of the true motives and objectives of these organisations, will the Minister prepare a White Paper on the Nazi Party, the National Civic Council and the League of Rights? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Why are videotapes of the British rugby league match-of-the-day not shown on ABC television each week in New South Wales, Queensland, Western Australia and Darwin, as is the case with the British soccer match-of-the-day. 
4 ask the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science whether he is aware that many divorce and social groups allege that a cause of the alarmingly high level of divorce is financial hardship due to crippling interest rates on hire purchase agreements. Will the Minister, therefore, introduce along lines similar to citizenship instruction, education in domestic economics and family budgeting for students in their last year of schooling? 
 My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. Has his attention been drawn to a statement made yesterday by the Attorney-General of South Australia that pyramid selling organisations were leaving a trail of misfortune across Australia and were using doubtful methods to trap people into buying distributorships? Is he aware also that the Attorney-General of South Australia said that in many cases the promoters of these snide enterprises arrived here from the United States of America and Canada? Will he examine the immigration laws to determine whether action can be taken to restrict entry into Australia of people who come here with the sole purpose of making a quick underhand profit and who leave ruin and hardship in their wake? Will the Minister ascertain whether any of these foreign pyramid selling promoters are still in Australia and, if they are, will he take action, by way of deportation if necessary, to ensure their removal? 
Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to reports that the Iowa Supreme Court in the United States of America has upheld a verdict of guilty against a  Mr Glen  W. Turner of violating the State's consumer fraud laws? Is  he aware that this  Mr Turner  now faces prosecution in 30 states of America? Is he also aware that the same  Mr Turner  whose conviction relates to pyramid selling was in Australia in April and again this month to launch a pyramid selling company known as Koscot  (Aust.) Pty Ltd, a subsidiary of his company Koscot Interplanetary Incorporated, and that this group is operating extensively in New South Wales, Victoria and 
Queensland? In the circumstances will the Attorney-General confer with the Ministers of Justice of those 3 States regarding the operations of Koscot (Aust.) Pty Ltd to ensure the protection of the Australian people from snide, quick profit selling methods? Will he also confer with his colleague, the Minister for Immigration, to see what restrictions can be placed on the entry into Australia of people of such poor reputation and obvious motives as  Mr Turner? 
Is the Minister for Health aware that more than 70 per cent of general practitioner services at Mackay, more than 72 per cent of such services at Townsville, more than 81 per  cent at Cairns and more than 60 per cent at Southport, are charged for at above the common fee rate? Is the Minister satisfied that medical services in Queensland, especially north Queensland, should be charged for so extensively above the common fee? If so, what steps does the Minister propose to increase benefits for members of voluntary health insurance groups in those areas so that the common fee will have some realistic meaning for them? If he is not satisfied with this situation what steps does he propose to take to encourage adherance to the common fee? 
In a sense the honourable senator asks me to reflect on matters of policy. He quotes certain percentages in relation to cities or towns in Queensland. He says that there is a 70 per cent non-application of the common fee in an area of Queensland. I would be delighted to have access to the figures which he has and the basis of his calculations. If he would like to discuss the matter with me subsequently 1 will be happy to have access to his figures. The common fee concept is an integral part of a health scheme which is incorporated by an Act of Parliament. Tt is implicit in the scheme that there be insurance and Commonwealth participation at the expense of the taxpayer. In relation to the New South Wales figures there is a margin which provides, in broad terms, 80c for a surgery visit, $1.20 for a home visit and $5 for a service other than those. I have released - this is' documented - the figures for the application of the common fee in Australia from State to State. In due course when figures to 30th September are available they will- be released in their totality so that they can be looked at properly. 
We will then be in a position to look at the figures in relation to the various States. Off the cuff and without any reference to notes I say that my understanding from the latest release of figures for Queensland as a whole puts applications of the common fee at between 75 per cent and 80 per cent of the total - not against it. However, I would be happy to get the information that is available in relation to particular areas and give it to the honourable senator. 
I ask the Minister for Health whether he is aware that the Queensland branch of the Manchester Unity Independent Order of Oddfellows Friendly Society has claimed that that lodge is now virtually a government department operating under a type of nationalised control and that the fund is now no longer voluntary in the true sense of the word. As these criticisms come from a prominent organisation closely associated with the present system of health insurance and as they strike at the very heart of the Government's alleged philosophy behind its health insurance scheme, will the Minister explain why the Government has dropped the concept of voluntary insurance? Is it determined to convert the insurance funds into government departments? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe answer to the last question is no, no, no. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister For Labour and National Service, upon notice:  (1)Is the number of unemployed expected to exceed 130,000 by February 1972. 
Is the Minister aware of a high-pressure selling process known as pyramid-selling, which is used to exploit the public, particularly housewives, and which also reduces employment opportunities. 
When the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department were before the Estimates Committee I raised the matter of legal aid. I made a request that as S208.700 was appropriated for the Legal Services Bureau, as S73.200 was appropriated for the payment of legal aid in special circumstances and as $466,400 was appropriated by way of grants to approved marriage guidance organisations would ihe Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  consider an extension of legal aid to cover pensioners and Aborigines. At the time it was pointed out that the legal aid which was under discussion applied only lo ex-servicemen and !heir relatives. I pressed the matter further and asked the Attorney-General whether there were any possibility of his Department giving some consideration to extending legal aid lo people in necessitous circumstances such as Aborigines and pensioners. The Attorney- 
General replied that there was legislation in all the States in relation to this matter. Of course in the States there is usually a public solicitor or criminal defender who provides assistance for people involved in criminal cases, quite apart from civil cases for which the profession usually provides assistance. 
At this stage I would like to tell the. Senate of an organisation that has been established in New South Wales. It is known as the Aboriginal Legal Service. The idea of the Aboriginal Legal Service developed in the latter half of 1970. The impetus for its foundation did not come from white people or from a desire to implement abstract principles but from a group of articulate young Aborigines reacting to the day to day pressures which they felt operated in their own lives and in the lives of other Aborigines. Essentially they felt a desire to fight back against what they experienced as an alien apparatus of law enforcement which bore oppressively on Aborigines and did not operate to protect them or accord them rights. This service was set up in New South Wales. It had as members of its Committee such illustrious people as Professor Wooten who is the Dean of the Faculty of Law at the University of New South Wales. It had as its Vice-president Gary Williams, an Aboriginal student; as  chairman,  Ross McKenna, a senior tutor in French at the University of New South Wales and its Treasurer was Richard Chisholm, lecturer in the Faculty Of Law. I shall not bore the Senate by itemising or elaborating on the other personnel constituting this committee. The committee functioned as a special Aboriginal legal service. It had at its inquiry desk Aborigines so that Aborigines who were seeking legal aid approached other Aborigines who were considerate of their requests and forwarded them onto the committee of management. What I am trying to project at this time is that the Commonwealth Government gave $24,500 to the Aboriginal Legal Service in New South Wales in its first year of operation. Following my question to the Attorney-General at the Estimates Committee hearing I was pursuing the point that there should be an extension of the legal service for Aborigines in Queensland, which is the 
State 1 represent, and also for pensioners and if possible an extension of the service to the other States. 
I would like the Attorney-General and his Department to give consideration to the fact that if a similar Aboriginal legal service were established in Queensland as a genuine attempt to extend legal service to people in necessitous circumstances with personnel on the committee of management equal in status and in scholarship to those who occupy positions in New South Wales, would his Department consider giving a similar grant to such an Aboriginal legal service? Since the discussion in the Estimates Committee I have had long and serious talks with members of the Aboriginal community in Brisbane regarding the extension of this legal service to them. They explained that where they have to go along to the established legal aid set-up there is some embarrassment felt on their part because they are interviewed by whites and they would rather be interviewed by Aborigines. They pattern as a perfect example of something which would be workable and would be a progressive move among the Aboriginal community in Queensland an Aboriginal legal service which would be similar to the one set up in New South Wales. When the estimates were being discussed in the Estimates  Committee  I moved that the AttorneyGeneral should give consideration to the extension of Commonwealth legal aid to Aboriginals' and pensioners who were in necessitous circumstances. My- request was replied to in the Press of Queensland by the State Treasurer,  Sir Gordon  Chalk, who said that no doubt the senator must have been speaking about Commonwealth legal aid because there was adequate provision in Queensland for legal aid to pensioners and Aboriginals. That is not so. I have done some research among people who are in this area and they say that when an Aboriginal seeks legal advice in Queensland he usually is fortunate if he can get the plumber or the carpenter from the Native Affairs Department to appear in court for him. They say that. if he can get such representation he is doing quite well. 
So I earnestly and sincerely appeal to the Attorney-General and his Department to do what they can to see that an Aboriginal legal service is established in 
Queensland as exists in New South Wales. The proposed committee should comprise people representative of the faculty of law at the university, the Aboriginal community and scholarly people in all walks of life who will be able to co-ordinate the procedures as between the committee and the legal profession. If Queensland were able to establish such a committee would the Ministers Department give serious consideration to granting to it an advance of S24.500. an amount equal to those given to the Kew South Wales committee? 
ls the Minister for Health aware that there is widespread dissatisfaction among general medical practitioners over the differential rebate system under the common fee concept which results in specialists receiving greater monetary reward than general practitioners for similar services, although patients pay the same amount in either case? Has his attention been drawn to claims of general practitioners that this system is diverting considerable numbers of patients to specialists for services which can be fulfilled adequately by general practitioners and that this is being done to the disadvantage of general practice and at unnecessary expense lo the taxpayer? What steps does the Minister have in mind to eliminate this grave disadvantage? 
The question posed by the honourable senator hits at the very basis of the specialistgeneral practitioner relationship. As I said yesterday in my defence of the general practitioner, the referral system has as its keystone or fundamental basis the protection of the general practitioner. If that referral system were nol applied and a patient could make a direct approach to a specialist, the life and future of the general practitioner would be absolutely prejudiced. One can disagree with this system if one wishes - 'this is a matter of judgment - but if one believes, as 1 do and as, I rather suspect, the questioner does in the preservation of the general practitioner, one must accept that concept of the referral system. 
Having said that, 1 agree that there are areas of dissatisfaction. ' lt would be a funny world if that were nol so. The medical profession is no different from any other profession - parliamentary or otherwise. There will always be an area in which there is a justification for further examination. I have these matters constantly before me as Minister. This state of affairs is not peculiar to me; if anyone else were Minister he too would have them. One must make a judgment in the final analysis as to where the balance lies. I would say that the referral system is the basis of the preservation of the general practitioner in relation to the specialist. As long as I remain Minister, I will always maintain that position when I put a view to the Government. I am sure that it is a policy decision of the Government. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
I support the motion moved by the Leader of my Party,  Senator Murphy.  I was vitally interested in this part of consideration of the Estimates. The whole thing came about by my endeavouring to progress some items regarding the televising of certain sporting events. I referred particularly to the fact that English rugby league club matches were not telecast in Queensland, New South Wales, Western Australia and Darwin whereas there were weekly telecasts throughout the States of Australia of Australian rules matches and English soccer matches. I myself enjoy viewing telecasts of both of these codes, but that Ls not the point in question. I am not arguing the relative merits or the popularity in a particular State of Australian rules or soccer. 

 - Senator Gair has assisted me with a description of the game of Australian rules as aerial ping pong. However, the question was whether or not rugby league was getting a fair go from the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
And the north coast ot New South Wales, as  Senator Mulvihill  says. Of course, the rugby league team on this Estimates Committee had a very good front row. We had a good pack. We had  Senator Tony  Mulvihill,  Senator Doug  McClelland and  Senator Jim  McClelland adding their weight to the scrum. 
And ready to take the ball? We started by trying to find out why this set of circumstances is as it is and why there appears to be preference given to the telecasting of soccer matches and Australian rules matches compared with rugby league matches. We rugby league enthusiasts can be pardoned or forgiven for thinking that the viewing audience in Queensland, New South Wales, Western Australia and Darwin would be greater than the viewing audience in the remaining States when soccer is being telecast. Possibly the rugby league viewing audience in the States that I have mentioned might be as great as the Australian rules viewing audience in Victoria. I must say quite sincerely that J was not satisfied with the answers given to the Committee. I may be pardoned for drawing the conclusion that there was a certain prejudice existing regarding rugby league held by the witnesses who were present. At the time I was prepared to accept the opinion of the experts from the Australian Broadcasting Commission - they have the expertise in relation to these matters - whose responsibility and whose function it is to draw up the programming. They felt that their programming was arranged according to a count of the viewing audience. 
I then pursued the matter further. I asked for some statistical information to be tabled which would convince me that rugby league was not worthy of the rating that I was seeking for it but no attempt was made to table this information. As a matter of fact, a wall was starting to be built that made the Maginot Line look like a picket fence. So I moved from that area of questioning to find out whether there was an arrangement to justify the existing policy. Not being satisfied in that regard I then had to move into another area to try to find out how much money is being spent in the televising of the various sporting events in Australia. Apart from the televising of English rugby league club matches in Australia the point was also raised as to why the Sydney rugby league match of the day is not televised to Queensland. New South Wales, Western Australia and Darwin, because the game is of a high standard and there are calls and clamouring for it to be televised in Great Britain. If I may quote the New South rugby league officials - men of wide experience in the sporting world - the reason why Sydney matches are not televised is that the Australian Broadcasting Commission failed to make a reasonable offer to have them televised. 
In the examination of Division 405, subdivision 2, 1 asked whether figures could be tabled showing the amounts spent by the Australian Broadcasting Commission on the various sports - tor rugby league, showing the amounts spent on English and Australian content, Australian rules, soccer, showing the amounts spent on English and Australian content, rugby union, horse racing, hockey, roller skating and a whole list of other sports. When the Committee was considering the estimates for the Broadcasting Control Board the question I asked was whether the information regarding the amounts spent on televising these sports could be given to the Committee. At that time the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood),  in his reply, drew my attention to the fact that this was not a question for the witnesses from the Broadcasting Control Board to answer. He offered the opinion: 
If  Senator  McAuliffe  is interested in what the ABC  has  spent in  these  areas, then when we come to the estimates for the AHC I am sure an officer here will be able to look after that question. 
Needless to say, when we came to the examination of the estimates for the Australian Broadcasting Commission I asked why these games were not being televised. I asked whether details of the amounts spent on the various sports could be tabled. Here is a very interesting point or observation that was made at the time. I asked the question: 
Could the Commission supply the information in which I was interested and in that information, could the Commission support their claim that their programmes are adequate and comprehensive as far as sport is concerned, and yet they contain no rugby league content? Now I would like that question answered. 
L proceeded to pursue the question with the officers of the Commission and again asked: 
Cun the Commission substantiate their claim that their sporting coverage is adequate and comprehensive when it does not contain any rugby league content? 

 Senator Greenwood gave the reply: 
I think that I and the officers of the Broadcasting Commission with me here have an understanding of the points on which  Senator McAuliffe  is seeking information, but I must inform the Committee thai the areas which  Senator McAuliffe  is asking about are areas of business negotiation. The ABC is in competition with commercial television stations in areas where it want* a programme. For this information to be made publicly available is possibly to prejudice the Commission's negotiating ability when it  cornea  on a particular occasion to negotiate the rights. 1 will not read out the whole of the contribution by  Senator Greenwood.  That gives honourable senators an idea of the language that was used. He said that he did not think that the Commission could make this information available because it would put the Australian Broadcasting Commission al a disadvantage with its competitors. I contested that point because J believe that the Australian Broadcasting Commission is al a great disadvantage with its competitors in the televising of sporting events because, as everyone knows, the commercial stations have an advantage over the Australian Broadcasting Commission in thai they can call upon advertisers. Advertisers are the people who pay the high prices for rights and for the nuts and bolts that go with the televising of sport. So when it comes to a consideration of who will be given the television rights for a particular sport, whether it be rugby league or anything else, everyone knows that the commercial stations have a decided advantage over the Australian Broadcasting Commission because they have the opportunity to call upon adverti sers. When the rights are given, competitive tenders are called for the right to broadcast or televise the game. 
I felt that the Attorney-General's answer was a pretty lame excuse and that it was a smoke screen thrown up by him to protect the witnesses from having to table this information. I know that the information I am requiring is not on national shattering events. But a principle is involved, whether it be the televising of a game of sport or the policy of the Australian Broadcasting Commission that is under consideration. The point is that a member of the Parliament of Australia has asked for the tabling of information on the amounts thai are spent on the televising of various sports. When the Attorney-General replied in the way he did, as reported at page 409 of the Hansard record, 1 realised that the information would not become available to me. At the direction of the  Chairman,  I supplied a list of the requests that I had made, lt was recorded in Hansard. I gave to the officers of the Commission a list of the questions which I asked and for which answers were required in accordance with my statement, as reported on page 408i which was: 
Well, I was wondering if I could obtain this information, it is pretty detailed. What would the Commission have outlayed on the production and televising of the whole exercise of Australian Rules for a year  -  1 do not care whether this is the 30th June 1971 or whether it is a calendar year -whatever it is the easiest for them to turn up - Soccer of English origin, and (b) Australian; rugby league - Australian (b) overseas: Rugby Union - Australian (b) overseas; amateur sport, athletics - Australian and overseas swimming - Australian and overseas: hockey. 
I continued by asking what amounts had been spent on televising 'horse racing, trotting, greyhound racing, roller skating and boxing and, if possible, motor car racing'. I asked whether the amounts could be split up showing what was the amount actually spent in each State in the Commonwealth. I supplied the list of requests to the officers of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. They said that the information required was detailed and comprehensive and could not be obtained overnight. I said that I was fully appreciative of the task that they had been set, but asked whether the information could be made available for inclusion in the Hansard record when the estimates of the Commission were being considered, or it could be given to me as soon as possible. I asked whether it could be in my possession at the very latest before the estimates were considered in the Committee of the Whole. 1 was given an assurance that, whilst it might not be as detailed as what was required, some information would be supplied. 
J regret that at this point of time I still have not received any of the information 1 have sought. I have not received an answer to any of the questions I have asked. 1 am asking the questions, not in order to shout from the rooftops and throughout the length and breadth of Australia details of the business transactions of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I am innocently and sincerely pursuing a persuasion I have, namely, that rugby league is not getting a fair go in the way of television from the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I am sorry to have to admit in this chamber that I am of the opinion that the Commission, as established, favours the noble games, the old school tie games of cricket- 
 Put (hat in the same category if you wish. I do not think one is paying the sport due credit when one makes that comparison. It is not good enough for the Attorney-General to say that the viewing audience calls for this or that the viewing demand is for such and such, in the absence of anything to substantiate that statement. So the only avenue left open to me was to pursue the matter on a financial basis. As I said previously, at this point of time all those questions remain unanswered. If this is the pattern or the style of procedure that is to be followed in the Estimates committees or in this Committee of the Whole, and if I, as a senator, sent here from Queensland by the electors of that State, cannot receive answers to questions which I feel will not injure the business approaches of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, I feel that I am wasting my lime in the Parliament of Australia. I do not make that observation lightly. I have had business experience spread over 12 years. I know that one guards very jealously certain information which one does not want one's competitors to know. Often that is not the real reason why one is not prepared to disclose one's business. I know that in the hotel trade a hotel keeper will not disclose to anyone his profits or the size of his business, but anyone can go to the Licensing Commission and find 0U the licence tee the hotelier pays each year and by simple accounting, without being an Einstein, the person so inquiring can get fairly close to the target figure and the extent of the hotel's business. 
I will not labour the issue before the Committee because other members of Estimates Committee B who played in the investigation of the estimates a part equally as important as the part I played will want to make some contribution to the debate. I feel that the set of circumstances which I outlined in regard to the hotel trade applies to the Commission, lt is a lame duck excuse lo say that the Government is not prepared to make figures available because that will place the Australian Broadcasting Commission at a disadvantage with its competitors. I appeal to the Attorney-General to have regard to the reference that I made in respect of the hotel trade - that a person can get from the Licensing Commission information on the licence fee paid by the hotel. I am in no way making an attack on the personnel of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, but 1 do not want to be behind the door and say that I am not making an attack on its policy. I am doing precisely that. I feel that in its programming it has a prejudice against rugby league. I am not referring to rugby league in a parish pump manner. If, in the investigations carried out by Estimates Committee B. 1 had ascertained that some other sport was being treated in a manner similar to the way in which I feel rugby league is being treated, I would have donned the shining armour and have become the champion of that sport also. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. Did the report of the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs recommend that insurance fund branches should be rationalised on the basis of one branch to each 50,000 subscribers? Is it a fact that only about 1 branch in 6 in Australia meets this requirement and, indeed, that 4 branches out of 5 bear a ratio to subscribers of less than half the level recommended by the report of the Senate Committee? Does the Government propose to act on this important cost saving proposal of the Senate Committee? If so, when? If not, why not? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIn response to that question I would say only that the report of the Committee is currently being examined and evaluated. I would not want to make a statement in relation to the report until I have the facts before me, because if I were to do so I would be acting prematurely. 
Will the AttorneyGeneral investigate the letter circulated to Holiday Magic Pty Ltd distributors on 26th November 1971 by a  Mr R.  E. Rauner,  the new Managing Director of Holiday Magic Pty Ltd in which he criticises the large investments by generally uninformed members of the public and the high percentage of failures among pyramid sellers? Does this letter, which criticises the very things which Holiday Magic stands for in order to sell Holiday Magic as a respectable multi-level marketing concern, constitute fraud? Will the AttorneyGeneral also investigate the financial dealings of  Mr Roland  Nocera  and  Mr Andrew  Berliner, who have now left Australia after making huge profits at the expense of uninformed members of the Australian public? Will the Attorney-General tell the Senate what is the amount of the paid up capital of Holiday Magic Pty Ltd? Will it have sufficient assets to pay its creditors should it go into liquidation? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that the Nimmo report and the Senate select committee report on hospital and health costs each recommended that reserves of health insurance funds should be limited to 3 months contribution income? ls the Minister aware that free reserves of medical funds were at 5.2 months contribution income and of hospital funds at 8.1 months contribution income in 1969-70 - the latest year for which comprehensive data are available? How does he justify over $66m being tied up in reserves above the level recommended in either the Nimmo report or the Senate select committee report? When will reserves levels be reduced to the recommended level and how will contributors benefit? Finally, what is the justification for reserves which are unnecessary in a universal scheme anyhow? 
The honourable senator then went on to ask why the funds should have reserves at all. I do not think that in this company I really need answer that question. It would seem to me lo be elementary that the idea of the funds having reserves is to preserve the interests of the people who subscribe to them. If the funds were to go broke, of course, it would be a cost against the revenue. That might suit the Socialist approach, but it is not the concept of the Government. Our concept is that the funds should be organisations which people join voluntarily or freely and from which they receive benefits, lt: anyone suggests that we should just let them drift and drift until they go broke, and then have the Government pay, all I can say is that that is not our approach. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that a survey conducted in 1971 into the physical fitness of State secondary school students revealed such a poor standard of fitness that the Department of Health withheld publication of the results? Is it also a fact that the information obtained showed that 75 per cent of the State high schools in Australia do not have gymnasiums or suitable indoor facilities for physical education and that this has significantly and detrimentally affected physical education programmes? As it is now felt that the need for gymnasiums is as great as the need for libraries and science blocks, will the Minister make Commonwealth funds available to provide these facilities? 
If I am proved to be wrong I will correct myself subsequently, but I understand that the honourable senator's question was in the first instance in reference to an examination which was conducted by the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness. The report on that examination has not been produced, as far as I. am aware.. I am not aware of it being withheld'. If that is not the situation I shall discover what the true position is, but that is my understanding of it. The second part of the question, which was built around the first part of the question, relates to the equipment which is provided in the educational systems of the States. The honourable senator has suggested that because of a lack of appropriate equipment the physical education of children is being affected. The Minister for Education and Science may wish to respond to the question, but in my view it is clearly a matter for State government instrumentalities through their own education systems. However, I shall refer the honourable senator's question to the Commonwealth Minister for Education and Science. 
My question is  addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is it a fact that more passengers use Cairns Airport than most other airports in Australia outside of the metropolitan areas? As the present facilities at Cairns are entirely unsatisfactory and can best be described as non-existent, will the Minister inform the Senate whether there is any planning to meet the future airport needs at Cairns, and if so what is the estimated cost and when is the development likely to commence? 
 Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that it has been claimed that it will soon be possible to make completely computerised profiles of each person in Australia? Will he confer with State Ministers with a view to establishing a data bank tribunal and inspectorate, the licensing of data banks containing personal information and preventing the misuse of information from any data banks, particularly as regards the right of access to files kept by credit companies, so that wrong information can be corrected? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Will the Government relate the results of research being undertaken by the North Australian Rubber Mills of Brisbane, regarding a four-day working week, to the urgent need for a recreation and sports policy for Australia, in view of the anticipated increase in leisure resulting from automation, reduced working hours and daylight saving. 
Can the Minister for Civil Aviation say what funds have been expended on development and maintenance of airports in each State over the past 10 years? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. Is it a fact that the recent Teheran Conference of the International Labour Organisation very clearly affirmed the right of unions to organise and the right of freedom of  association? Would attempts by reactionary groups within the Parliament to interfere in the internal affairs of the trade union movement, particularly in regard to amalgamation of unions, give the impression overseas that we in Australia are opposed to ILO conventions? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. Is it a fact that, in the process of the amalgamation of the metal trades group of unions, ballots in accordance with the current Conciliation and Arbitration Act were substantially carried by those unions with a majority of well over 3 to 1? Is it also a fact that the Federal and State industrial registrars have accepted the validity of the ballots? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether it is a fact that insurers of motor vehicles charge over 30 per cent more to insure vehicles which are under hire purchase? Is it not extremely unfair that a person who. is already paying huge interest under hire purchase agreements should be slugged even more by insurance companies? If this is the case, will the Minister tell the Senate why that situation exists? Will the Government consider establishing a Commonwealth Government insurance office on a non-profit making basis? 
Does the Minister for Health recollect the Leader of the Opposition in the other place on 28th August 1969 pointing out that voluntary health insurance is cheaper for higher income groups than for low and moderate income groups? Is it a fact that currently the cost of public ward hospital insurance and medical insurance to a man supporting a wife and 2 children in Victoria, after claiming his tax deductions for the cost of this insurance, is $1.05 a week on an income of $3,000 per annum, but private ward insurance and medical insurance would cost only 60c a week on an income of $20,000 per annum? Why has this serious inequity been allowed to continue since 28th August 1969 and what decisive action has the Minister in mind to remove it? 
I formally second the motion so ably moved by the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Lionel  Murphy. The motion reads: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade the following matter for inquiry and report: 
The determination of prices which affect the structure of costs and prices in the Australian economy and, in particular, of prices which are determined by foreign corporations or trading or financial corporations formed within the limits of the Commonwealth, or by corporations which enjoy advantages under Commonwealth tariff, revenue, subsidy or other laws, or by corporations which have contracts with the Commonwealth. 
The Committee is requested to recommend any legislative or administrative measures which should be taken by the Commonwealth to prevent unjustifiable price increases and to protect Australia, from excessive inflation. 
Before addressing myself to the motion before the Senate, 1 wish to make an observation on the contribution made by  Senator Cotton  who responded on behalf of the Government. I feel that  Senator Colton  must have been wearing his hat as Minister for Civil Aviation because his remarks on the motion showed that he was up in the clouds. He tried to misconstrue what, the Leader of the Opposition conveyed in his motion seeking the referral of this matter to the Standing Committee for inquiry and report.  Senator Cotton  went to great lengths to point out that this was a guise to establish a price control authority. A simple examination of the membership of the Committee clarifies the situation. Labor Party members will be in the minority. If it was their intention to seek to establish a price control authority, they would be outnumbered in any vote. I do not think that  Senator Cotton  was sincere in his approach to this question. He endeavoured to drag red herrings across the trail. The intention of the Leader of the Opposition is clear. This is a matter for inquiry and report to the Senate by the Standing Committee. 
I know of no problem that engages the attention of the nation more today than the question of the state of the Australian economy and the inflationary situation in which we find ourselves and its impact on all sections of the community. No doubt exists that these 2 matters are causing great concern and bewilderment to the community. Therefore, I believe that the action that  Senator Murphy  has taken today is timely.  His  motion will receive the enthusiastic support of all honourable senators on this side of the chamber. 
Throughout the 22 years of LiberalCountry Party government, Australia's economic development has been retarded again and again by inflationary and deflationary interruptions. The current situation is one that was not unexpected, nor is it unprecedented. Over the past 22 years, a policy of stop-go measures seems to have been adopted as the attitude of the Government to inflationary problems. On 3 previous occasions when similar crises to the one that we are experiencing today occurred  -  1 refer to 1951, 1956 and 1960  -  the Government failed to take any measures which were effective in time to control the economy. However, there is one difference between the approach of this Government and the approaches by the Menzies and Holt Governments which preceded it. This is in the way in which the situation has been dealt with. It is true that the Menzies and Holt Governments did make full statements and explanations to the Parliament and to the people at the time of the previous economic crises. The approach of the McMahon Government on this occasion shows how much Liberal practice and principle in its attitude to the Parliament and to the people have declined. I am sorry to say, too, that this was the attitude of the Gorton Government in its approach to similar economic questions. 
There has as yet been no explanation, statement or outline of any plan for the Parliament to debate. It is true that  Senator Cotton  said that the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  brought down a White Paper the other day in the other place. Some reference was made to the strategy in the Budget. But I challenge senators on the Government benches to show us clearly and conclusively any occasion on which a full explanation has been given or an opportunity for the Parliament to debate the economic crisis now before us. The whole strategy of the Gorton and McMahon Governments was to put the blame on the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and especially on the trade unions, the white collar unions and the Public Service associations that made approaches to the Commission. It is apparent that wage and salary earners and their unions are to be made the scapegoats. The Government is trying to make out that the 6 per cent increase in the national wage granted in 1.970 was a major cause of all the trouble. It is no good Government senators saying that this is not so. 
As recently as 16th February, the man who aspires to become the Federal member for Mcpherson,  Mr Howard  Richter, the endorsed Country Party candidate, made a public statement which was reported in the 'Fassifern Guardian' of that date. He suggested that a 2 per cent cut in salaries and wages would make more money available for the absorption of the 131,000 Australians currently out of work. Not only is this man the endorsed Country Party candidate for the Federal seat of Mcpherson but also he is a VicePresident of the Country Party in Queensland and, I understand, a member of the Federal Executive of the Australian Country Party. This must be the philosophy of the Country Party because, up to this point in time, neither the Federal Leader,  Mr Anthony,  nor the State Leader,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  has dissociated himself from that statement. 
That is quite so. Let us analyse the true situation of wages, salaries and supplements. It was said by  Senator Cotton  - he quoted certain percentages to show this - that the average weekly wage had increased by 6 per cent. Let us look at the true figures which give us the real picture regarding wages, salaries and supplements. Expressed as a percentage of the gross national product, over a 15 year period wages, salaries and supplements have fallen from 63.2 per cent to 61.7 per cent. In that time, the number of people who are supposed to be sharing these wages, salaries and supplements increased from 89.6 per cent of the population to 91 per cent of the population. What senators on this side of the chamber wish to know is what the Government pro poses to do about the other approximately 40 per cent of the economy. Why is it concerned only with what happens to wages? 
I have heard Government senators endeavour to quote the celebrated economist, Colin Clark, as an authority on all financial matters. I propose to quote to them what Colin Clark said about wages and the inflationary situation today. Colin Clark, the well-known economist, was reported in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' on 17th February 1971 as having said: 
Some people put  the  blame on rising wages, some more specifically put the blame on the Arbitration Court or on  Mr Hawke  as advocate, but they are wide of the mark. Rising wages are a consequence, not a cause. The decisions of the Arbitration Court may make some difference to some public employees and not others who do nol have strong unions, but generally speaking the Court does no more than follow what would have been the movement of the labour market in any case. 
Surely honourable seantors opposite will accept the opinion of the one person that they are always advancing in this chamber as a financial genius. I invite honourable senators to consider the case of the trade unions. When they have to make an application to the Arbitration Commission for an increase in wages, invariably the basis of their application is the rise in the consumer price index that is, the increase in prices that has taken place since last they applied to the Commission for a wage increase. Usually the Arbitration Commission awards an increase in the national basic wage to enable the wage to catch up with the increase in prices. It is, in effect, an adjustment to offset the increase in prices between the hearing of the case and the previous hearing by the Commission. 
I propose now to develop the point that I wish to make about applications to the Commission. Despite the fa.t that she Arbitration Commission considers all the evidence before it - as I have said, usually this is based on increased prices and movements in the consumer price index which will warrant an increase in wages - immediately the Commission has brought down an award to increase the national wage, commercial interests take this as a green light to increase prices. I submit quite seriously and sincerely that this is a contempt of the Arbitration Commission. I should like honourable senators opposite to give some thought to that statement. 
I claim that prices and huge profits are the cause of inflation today. There should be a temporary price freeze where profits are excessive. To give the Senate some idea of the excessive profits that are being made ] mention that for the year ended 31st May 1971 Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd had a net consolidated profit of $68,459,000; General Motors-Hoi den's Pty Ltd had net earnings of $27,760,000; the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd had a net consolidated profit of $20,149,000; the Bank of New South Wales had a net consolidated profit of $17,271,000; Carlton and United Breweries Ltd had a net consolidated profit of SI 0,588,000; and Mount Isa Mines Ltd had net earnings of $54,141,000. Does not that make interesting reading? It is these companies, not the trade unions or wage earners, that control inflation.  Senator Little  is trying to interject but I have only one cartridge left in my gun and I do not propose to waste it on a pipsqueak. It is the companies and not the trade unions or wage earners that control inflation. Institutions such as those I have mentioned are the ones with the power to start inflation and to carry it on. 
Let us consider the statistics relating to company taxation. In 1967-68 there were in the whole of Australia 936 companies - a mere .74 per cent of all companies in Australia - with a combined taxable income of $ 1,728m, which was 56 per cent of the taxable income of all companies in Australia. The remaining 138,175 companies had the remaining 44 per cent of income. They would be small companies without any real power. The power to determine prices and, therefore, to start and carry on inflation lies with some of these giant companies among the 936 to which I have referred. To overcome our present crisis there must be a national plan. We must establish planning institutions to put that plan into effect. In no other way can inflation be dealt with. In no other way can justice be done to pensioners and other lower income earners. In no other way can the crisis in education be solved. In no other way can we prevent the power of the giant companies from dominating the nation and its people. Unless the Government is prepared to do this it can never earn and should never be given the confidence of the Parliament and the people. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. By way of preface I state that the new $700 return air fare to Europe is seen by some as a threat to Great Barrier Reef holiday resorts. As 15 per cent of the visitors to the Great Barrier Reef last year were Americans, will the Minister tell the Senate when discussions on charter flights from the United States of America into Australia are likely to be finalised so that a boost can be given to our foreign exchange earnings? 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmanser General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the Public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster General's Department, to assess the degree to which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extentits unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Will the Minister for Health tell the Senate whether the placing of warning labels on packets containing proprietary headache powders or tablets has reduced consumption? Is it a fact that despite the legislative action in relation to labels supermarkets have continued price cutting wars on aspirin, phenacetin and caffeine preparations? As these preparations are potential killers, linked particularly with kidney disease, will the Minister legislate to restrict sales to pharmacies in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory and have the warning labels printed in red? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONAs I understand it, the honourable senator's question referred to drugs. I wish to give a considered reply to the question. I have some comprehensive material on this matter which I propose to place before the Senate. Rather than do it at question time when I would perhaps be a little inadequate in terms of time and background information, I will respond to the question by giving a considered written reply in the next several days. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that a person treated for an injury in a hospital operating theatre but not admitted to hospital overnight receives no medical benefit for this treatment? If this is so, would not this be a positive inducement to over-hospitalisation in an effort to provide health insurance benefits for the patients? Will the Minister have a look at the situation and see whether anything can be done to remove this anomaly? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI think this matter was raised by  Senator Douglas  McClelland during the last series of sittings. The implication has been made that health insurance benefits are not given in certain circumstances to people receiving treatment as outpatients. I would like to give a detailed reply to this question because it does not lend itself to a simple answer at question time. I certainly shall obtain from my Department a considered, detailed reply to the honourable senator's question. 
 I ask the Minister for Health: Is it a fact that an infant under 10 days of age who is an in-patient of a hospital at the same time as its mother is an in-patient attracts no health insurance benefit for this hospitalisation? Is it also a fact that in the case of a mother having a difficult delivery in which complications lead to her being admitted to an intensive care unit and the infant being admitted to another section of the hospital at the same time, very expensive costs can be incurred for the treatment of the infant when intensive care is required and no medical benefits are paid for the child? What steps does the Minister propose to take to eliminate mis anomaly? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister in charge of Tourist Activities. Is it a fact that major developers are persistently making statements that it is not a paying proposition to build first-class accommodation hotels in Australian cities on a go-it-alone basis? Is it also a fact that the Australian Tourist Commission and the Australian National Travel Association have been pressing the urgent need for incentives to encourage hotel building? Will the Minister tell the Senate what  steps, if any, the Government proposes to take to give incentives to boost development to cope with the tourist invasion? 
asked the Minis ter representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
In view of the significant contribution made by Air/Sea rescue organisations in the matter of saving human life, will the Treasurer consider waiving all duty on fuels used by aircraft and boats engaged in these rescue operations. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government recognises the significant contribution made by air/sea rescue organisations and similar community service groups. The granting of special exemption for these organisations on both aviation fuels and motor spirit would create, however, a precedent for meeting many other similar requests for exemption from taxes which form part of the general revenues of the Commonwealth. In addition to requests from similar community service organisations, it could be expected that other groups in the community, who believe they have special grounds for exemption, would feel justified in renewing previous requests for concessions. The ultimate effect could well be a serious erosion of the broad base on which these duties are levied and a substantial loss of revenue to the Commonwealth. Mainly because of these revenue implications, the Commonwealth has consistently refused to grant requests for concessions from a wide range of consumers of aviation fuel and motor spirit. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. Is it a fact that because, of adverse weather and other environmental conditions the amount of time unsuitable for outdoor physical education programmes in State high schools is, in no State, less than 25 per cent of the school year? Is it also a fact that 75 per cent of State high schools do not have gymnasiums or suitable indoor facilities for physical education activities? Will the Minister inform the Senate what steps, if any, the Government proposes to take to make these indoor facilities available so that physical education programmes in our schools will be more effective in that they will be continuous, varied and balanced and not dependent on weather conditions? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister in Charge of Tourist Activities. Will the Minister as a practical example and indication of the Government's desire to encourage the decentralisation of commercial and industrial activities agree to move the office of the Minister in Charge of Tourist Activities to the city of the Gold Coast, the centre of tourism in Australia? 
I ask the Minister for Health: Is it a fact that the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports in the United States of America was reconstituted late in 1970 to include members with a professional competency in physical fitness? Is it also a fact that there is a close parallel between the problems of fitness in the United States of America and Australia? In view of this and the continued failure of the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness to produce results of the fitness survey of young Australians, will the Minister discuss with his departmental officers the problem of the reorganisation of this body in order that it may function more in line with the 1970s than an earlier era? 
It is true, as I understand it, that in September 1970  President  Nixon appointed 15 nationally recognised fitness and sports figures to the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports which presently is chaired by ex-astronaut James Lovell whom I personally happened to meet when I was visiting Cape Kennedy as Minister for Supply. In addition 100 famous athletes and sports figures were appointed to form an advisory conference to serve the Council in a voluntary capacity as guest speakers, panel members and study group leaders. The report on the survey of the fitness of young Australians - this is coming back to the problem of the National Fitness Council about which the honourable senator spoke - is now being prepared for publication. It will be recalled that I made a statement recently about a decision to publish the report. The Council is now working on that. This will be approved finally by the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness at its meeting in August, at which date it  should  be printed. The view that I hold, and I know that the honourable senator holds, is that in the circumstances the sooner it is printed the better. The honourable senator and, indeed, the Senate will be pleased to learn that consideration is being given to the possibility of updating the existing National Fitness Act. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services aware that a  Mr A.  W. Plath, endorsed Australian Country Party candidate for Isis in the forthcoming State general elections in Queensland, has stated that the Federal Government proposes to introduce a superannuation scheme and would establish the fund with a pool of about $300m from which payments would be made from the beginning? Will the Minister tell the Senate whether he is in agreement with this view? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. It follows the one asked by  Senator Maunsell.  As the Minister has given figures of time lost through disputes, will he now give to the Senate figures of time lost through industrial accidents and the loss of productivity due to unemployment? Is it a fact that the amount of time lost due to unemployment exceeds that lost due to disputes? What does the Government propose to do to correct the situation? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is it a fact that the national average growth rate of traffic is expected to reach 7 per cent by 30th June 1972 and that the growth rate of Gold Coast bound airline passengers up to 24th March 1972 was 15.6 per cent? In view of the increase in traffic to the Gold Coast and the fact that the facilities are overtaxed at present will the Minister tell the Senate whether his Department will be calling for tenders for the construction of the proposed new airport terminal on the Gold Coast? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that a person treated for an injury in a hospital operating theatre, but not admitted to hospital overnight, receives no medical benefit for this treatment; if this is so, would not this be a positive inducement to overhospitalise, in an effort to provide health insurance benefits for the patient. 
Will the Minister examine this situation with a view to removing any existing anomaly. 
I present the fol lowing petition from 16 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
The Honourable the  President,  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on December, 10, 1948, Australia signed the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights', Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person - languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Parliament to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate  -  30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote  a  comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to Increase the non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Similar petitions were presented by  Senator Little  from 64 citizens,  Senator Cavanagh  from 16 citizens,  Senator Devitt  from 16 citizens,  Senator Cant  from 16 citizens,  Senator Poyser  from 16 citizens,  Senator Laucke  from 16 citizens and  Senator Keeffe  from 542 citizens. 
Petitions severally received. 
I ask a question  of the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. Is the Minister aware that age and invalid pensioners travelling interstate by rail on concession rates must pay full rates for a sleeping berth? Will the Minister approach the State railway departments to enable pensioners to pay the difference between their concession fare and the cost of a sleeper or, alternatively, allow them a concession on the cost of a sleeping berth? Will the Minister also approach the airline companies to obtain concession flights for age and invalid pensioners on a similar basis to existing arrangements in operation with the railways and bus companies? 
I rise to support the motion, but before proceeding with my support for the motion I would like to associate myself with the remarks expressed by my colleague,  Senator Douglas  McClelland. Everyone on this side of the House knows - and knows only too well - that this motion is a political stunt that has been introduced by the Democratic Labor Party to bolster up the electoral prospects of  Senator Kane.  We know that members of the DLP took a calculated risk in the knowledge that the Australian Labor Party is the only Party that has any policy regarding foreign investment. They knew, in bringing a motion like this before the House, that it would receive the support of the Australian Labor Party. It is true, as my colleage  Senator Douglas  McClelland said, that if they believe the profound sentiments they have expressed here this afternoon regarding the laxity of the Government in its policies on foreign investment, they have had ample opportunity over the years to show how they could apply some corrective measures by withholding their preferences from the Government Parties. But what do we see on each occasion an election is held? We see the Australian Democratic Labor Party rushing and scrambling to give its preferences to the Government. 
We all know that the members of the Democratic Labor Party are not sincere. The Australian Labor Party has sought the introduction of many social service measures and has appealed to the humanitarian instincts of the members of the Democratic Labor Party for their support, but what have they done? They have refused to support the Labor Party and have voted with the Government parties. So the members of the Democratic Labor Party are not sincere. As I said earlier, the Australian Labor Party is the only political party that has a policy in this regard. Because we of the Labor Party believe that the cause is the main thing and because we believe in this cause we will be supporting this motion. 
It is true, as  Senator Douglas  McClelland has said, that there is no doubt that foreign investment in Australia is emerging as one of the major issues of our time. It is also true that a long overdue select committee of the Senate is at present investigating the matter. It is to be hoped that the select committee will attack this matter as aggressively and as critically as did the committee which was formed by the Senate to investigate Australian stock exchanges. As with most things, the Government is noticeably silent when it comes to itemising its policy on this subject. But we on this side of the chamber have left no doubt that an Australian Labor Party government will exert tighter controls.I heard  Senator Webster  interject earlier and ask what is the Labor Party's policy on this matter. The following resolution was adopted at the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party in 1967- 
Five years ago. The following resolution was adopted: 
Conference declares chat the Government should restrict the flow of overseas capital into Australia to the creation of new industries and not for the absorption of existing industries. 
That the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party be requested to investigate charges made recently at the opening of Edgell's new production centre at Dubbo, New South Wales, to the effect that the inroads of overseas interests into the Australian food industry have reached alarming proportions, that many manufactured food products displayed in Australian stores are produced in enterprises owned and controlled by foreign companies, and that the profits derived from the sale of such goods are diverted from Australia and Australians to the coffers of investors residing in other lands. We declare that these charges, if true, are indicative of a gross abuse of foreign investment in Australia, and constitute an indictment of the Holt Government's policy of encouraging uncontrolled financial exploitation of Australia by overseas companies. 
There for anybody to read is the Australian Labor Party's policy. Only in the last 6 months or so have we seen any activity in the Parliament about the effects of foreign investment in Australia; but we have seen nothing initiated by the Government itself. 
Let me outline what has been the position. When  Mr Gorton  was Prime Minister of Australia, he made a statement to Parliament on 16th September 1969 about the terms on which overseas investment was acceptable to Australia. Since then the Gorton statement has been criticised as being a set of generalities and one which does not present guidelines to a clear cut policy. From the replies to questions asked in this chamber by my colleague  Senator Poke  and in another place by  Mr Grassby  in February of this year it is obvious that the Government is still relying upon the Gorton statement of 1969. That was implicit in the replies that were given to the questions asked by both of those gentlemen. It was not until the closing stages of the parliamentary session in 1971 that the Australian Labor Party and the Democratic Labor Party combined to set up a select committee of the Senate to inquire into the foreign ownership and control of industry and resources in Australia. The members of that committee are  Senator Withers,  who is the  Chairman,  and Senators Guilfoyle, Maunsell, Byrne and Cant, as well as my Leader,  Senator Murphy.  Its terms of reference are extremely wide. They enable the committee to report, inter alia, upon whether foreign ownership is excessive and whether that is prejudicial and the best method of reconciling capital inflow with the retention of local ownership and control.  Senator Cotton,  in his contribution to this debate, has laid the base for the future. He said that he accepted the recommendations of the various committees in Canada and that he agreed that a lot of the guidelines they were posing were acceptable. 
Whilst the matter with which I am about to deal was dealt with briefly by  Senator Kane,  I think he could have made more of it. In order to get the record right, I feel that we should have permanently available in the Hansard record the observations that have been made by these Canadian committees. There are many who believe - I think  Senator Cotton  is one who would subscribe to this - that the Canadian experience could be the forerunner of what is likely to happen in Australia. Canada's concern about the inroads of foreign investment resulted from a royal commission in 1957 into Canada's economic prospects. Then came the Watkins report, which was prepared by a committee comprising 8 academic economists under the chairmanship of a Professor Melville Watkins of the University of Toronto. That Committee worked full time for a whole year to demonstrate that a number of giant foreign corporations virtually dominated the economy of Canada. I think that is a very pertinent observation and one of which Australia could take heed. It took a whole year to demonstrate that a number of giant corporations virtually dominated the economy of Canada. The next report was the 
Gray report, which was produced by the Minister of Finance in Canada,  Mr Gray.  The Gray report has been quoted already this afternoon, but I think it is worth putting in the record what it says regarding the Canadian economy. It states: 
The high and growing degree of foreign, and particularly US, control of Canadian business activity has led to a Canadian industrial structure which largely reflects the growth priorities of foreign corporations. 
It goes on to state: 
The book value of US foreign direct investment increased from approximately $7.5 billion in 1929 to $70.8 billion in 1969. 
It goes on to make the following observation: 
Even on the basis of very conservative estimates it seems clear that Multi-National Enterprises will continue to grow and become increasingly powerful institutions. It is estimated by one observer that the annual value of output in foreign markets by Multi-National Enterprises will rise from the present level of about $300 billion to over $2,000 billion by 1990 and account for half the free world GNF, compared with some 15 per cent in 1969. 
Surely those are frightening observations. As they are regarded by many as an indication of what is likely to happen in Australia, the motion before the Senate, even though it does not go far enough, is timely and requires the support of everybody who is interested in the national heritage of Australia. 
It is easy to offer criticism but it is much more difficult to offer solutions to problems. It is important to lay down guidelines which may help us to correct the position in Australia. The Gray report suggests the resisting of the Multi-National Enterprises where it adds nothing to national economic objectives. This is one measure which should be taken here. It also suggests that international co-operative action between governments to control these activities and, failing that, that national measures be taken to ensure that the host economy derives maximum benefits. It also suggests as guidelines that could be useful to other national governments the introduction of a screening process via a government agency with the power to negotiate for better performance from foreign direct investors and with the power to block investment that does not make a net contribution to the nation's economy or that does not accord with government objectives. However, the authors of the report point out that during the course of their analysis the screening process emerged as probably the most effective and least costly way of dealing with the problems involved. The report also reveals a lot more, and I commend it to the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control for its consideration. 
Now let me deal with the problem closer to home. What State is better to study than the one which I represent in this Senate, namely, the State of Queensland with its vast mineral wealth and development? The present Country Party-Liberal coalition Government of that State is charged time and time again with selling the State of Queensland or giving it away. A former Labor Premier of Queensland, the late  Mr Edward  Michael Hanlon, clearly forecast what was to come when in the early 1950s he warned: 'God forbid that the Liberals ever come to power in Queensland. They are the best team of real estate agents ever seen and they will not be content until they sell every portion of the State'.  His  prophesies have been borne out. In the 'Courier-Mail' of 28th January 1972 it was announced that a DutchUnited States-French consortium would be negotiating a franchise agreement covering the development of the Aurunkun bauxite deposits on Cape York Peninsula, estimated at more than 300 million tons. The consortium members are Holland Aluminium N.V. of the Netherlands, Tipperary Land and Exploration Corporation of the United States, and Pechiney of France. Australia is conspicuous by its absence. The newspaper in which this article appears then goes on to say that  Mr Kazuo  Ueda, Counsellor and former  President  of the Sanwa Bank, Tokyo, said: 
Return to overseas investments in Australia has been high . . . especially in mining, where the ratio of profit to sales is almost as high as 50 per cent. Of Australia's ten leading companies (in income earned) five are mining, and in these more than 50 per cent equity is controlled by overseas interests. 
Production of bauxite at Weipa in 1970-71 totalled 6.5 million tons valued at S37m. Bauxite is mined by Comalco which is owned by Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical Corporation, and Conzinc Rio Tinto. Australian equity in Kaiser is nil and overseas equity in Conzinc Rio Tinto is 81 per cent. Australian equity in Comalco is about 15 per cent. Royalties received in 1970-71 totalled $412,000 (1 per cent). 
This is the state of affairs that exists In Queensland. The royalty rate in Queensland is Se a ton for bauxite produced for local use and 10c a ton for that produced tor export overseas. The newspaper article continues: 
According to the Mines Minister,  Mr Camm,  the estimated production of export coal in Queensland in 1970-71 amounted to 7-1/4 million tons valued at $83.4m. The total amount of royalties paid for coal in 1970-71 is $362,500 (.43 per cent) - that is for every $100 worth of coal exported, Queensland receives a miserable pittance of forty-three cents, (5c per ton). 
That is the price of an ice cream. This is the sort of thing that is happening in Queensland. It is a wholesale sell out of our mineral wealth. All that is being left is large quarries. I do not often agree with the persuasions of the Democratic Labor Party. As I said earlier, I agree with the remarks of  Senator Douglas  McClelland that it was as a political stunt that the DLP was motivated to move this motion. However^ I am pleased to support it because I think it will go some way along the road towards the cause to which the Australian Labor Party is dedicated, namely, the exercise of extreme caution and supervision of foreign investment in Australia. 

 Senator COTTON (New South WalesMinister for Civil Aviation) -  Mr President,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Is the Minister for Health aware that there is great concern and alarm among physical education experts because surveys show that Australian school children are the unfittest in the world and that they are becoming less fit each year? Will the Minister tell the Senate why the report and findings of the survey into the fitness of Australian secondary school students conducted by  Dr A.  W. Willee of the University of Melbourne on behalf of the Government were not presented to the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness during 1970 as promised in the national fitness annual report of that year? I also ask the Minister: Will the report and findings of the survey be presented to the Council in August as stated by the Minister in March, despite claims that  Dr Willee  is still disagreeing with the Council on what should be published and is upset because he has been asked to change the survey's emphasis? 
I am aware of recent newspaper reports which have outlined various physical educationalists' views on the supposed unfitness of Australian youth. However I have not seen any report to support these views. Nor have the physical education experts named the specific surveys to which they refer. The findings in relation to the second matter, that is the survey directed by  Dr Willee  on behalf of the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness were, in fact, presented to that Council in July 1971. This was ;he earliest possible time that this could be done because one State did not complete its testing programme until SeptemberOctober 1970. Insofar as my previous statement about the anticipated date of presentation is concerned  -  I think I mentioned August in the previous answer - I am still reasonably confident that the report will be presented then. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister in Charge of Tourist Activities aware that more than 80 overseas countries have special incentives for developers which stimulate the construction of adequate tourist facilities? Is be also aware that many of those countries are in direct competition for tourists with Australia but no such incentives are available here? Will the Minister tell the Senate whether any progress has been made on the incentive scheme submitted by the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  earlier this year but put aside at the time because it was considered necessary to curb expenditure? Will the Minister bring the matter forward again as one of urgency? 
-I support the Bill because the money it is to provide is urgently needed by the Queensland Government. Queensland senators know that the Queensland Treasurer in a statement tabled in the Queensland Legislative Assembly on 23 rd September 1971 said that the Consolidated Revenue Fund showed an accumulated deficit of $11,093,259. The special grant to be authorised by this legislation is to bring Queensland's financial position into line with those of Victoria and New South Wales. Honourable senators will recall that Victoria and New South Wales received a special $2 per capita grant in 1970. At that time it was indicated by the Government that if the smaller States were adversely affected they could apply for compensatory grants to balance their Budgets. 
As a result of the rearrangement of State finances because of the effects of the receipts tax and payroll tax the smaller States are disadvantaged in relation to the standard States. Therefore, there is justification for the application by the Queensland Government to the Commonwealth Government for special assistance grants under section 96 of the Constitution. I said earlier that I am supporting this measure because the money is urgently required to allow Queensland to balance its Budget. Nevertheless, I reserve the right to offer some observations about the criticisms that have been levelled at the Queensland Government in practically every paragraph of the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission in dealing with the submissions of the Queensland Government. 
Honourable senators will remember that in 1933 the Commonwealth Government set up the Commonwealth Grants Commission to consider and report on applications that were to be received from the States for special grants under section 96 of the Constitution. From the inception, Western Australia was a claimant State. Tasmania and South Australia have been and are still claimant States but this is the first occasion since the Commonwealth Grants Commission was established in 1933 that the Queensland Government has had to apply for special grants and be regarded as a claimant State. The Queensland Treasurer said in his financial report that the Queensland Government had made application with some reservations because it is aware of the Budget restrictions that are placed on claimant States. Later in my speech I wish to refer to some of the very caustic criticisms of the Queensland Government made by top Commonwealth Treasury officials. Naturally, I have carefully examined the findings of the Commonwealth Grants Commission on the Queensland submission for special grants under section 96 of the Constitution, lt is clear from the report that 2 influences are at work to the detriment of Queensland. As a result a position is achieved which means that because Queensland is not receiving the financial assistance to which it is entitled the development of the State is somewhat retarded. The first influence at work against Queensland is the incompetence of the Queensland Government submission, as referred to by the Commonwealth Grants Commission. 

 Senator Mulvihill -  Do you mean the Bjelke-Petersen Government? 
That is so. This is not the criticism of a political party seeking to gain electoral advantage in the pending State election in Queensland. This criticism of incompetence has been levelled at the Queensland Government by the top public servants of this nation, officials of the Commonwealth Treasury. 
It would be an impartial observation and would be based on information supplied to the Commission. That is the first influence at work, the incompetence of the Queensland Government. The second influence is the exploitation by the Federal Government of the situation of incompetence of the 
Queensland Government so that it can bargain hard. We all know that in private life it is the giver who lays down the conditions. The Queensland Government is the asker and because of its incompetence and clumsily prepared submission it places the Federal Government in a position to be a hard bargainer. As a consequence the Queensland people are denied their just rights to the financial assistance that they should be receiving. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party senator from Queensland is asking me what are the grounds of incompetency that have been stated by the Commonwealth Grants Commission. I will give him the information, if he has not taken time to read the report. If the honourable senator will listen to me, I will educate him by telling him what the Queensland case was and the criticisms that have been levelled by top Treasury officials. I do that with no feeling of venom. I do so with pleasure. If I can educate another Queenslander, particularly one as influential as  Senator Byrne,  on the inefficiencies and incompetencies of the Queensland Government, I will be doing him and the people of Queensland a good turn. The Commonwealth Grants Commission throughout its report severely criticised the Queensland Government. I am claiming that it attacked the credibility and skill of Queensland's representatives who prepared the case.  Senator Byrne  has asked where the Commission says that. I direct his attention to page 11, paragraph 22, sub-paragraph (iii) which states: 
Uncertainty as to the validity of 'a great deal of detailed argument and workings in the State submission'. 
That, to any person of commonsense, is a condemnation and severe and caustic criticism of the submissions that have been made. 
I progress a little further. One of the strongest criticisms levelled at the Queensland Government in the report is in relation to Queensland's rail freights. What disturbs me about this criticism - it must be of some worry and concern to all Queenslanders - is this: How long have these clumsy applications or submissions been going on? 
If that is so, it must be of some concern to the people of Queensland, as our State must be losing millions of dollars annually because of incompetent applications submitted to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. 1 feel that the attempt by the Queensland Government to try to make a case for a special grant of financial assistance using rail freight charges as one ground was weak. The examination of its submission by the Commonwealth Government proved that that case was weak. 
As I said earlier, I am a former railwayman and this will stand me in good stead as I develop the case regarding the condemnation by the Federal Treasury of the Queensland Government's submission on freight contracts. The Federal Treasury challenged the accuracy of Queensland's comparisons on railway charges, especially its assumption  with  regard  to  contract rates. As I have said, I felt that the Queensland Government had erred in endeavouring to make out a case for additional assistance on the basis of freight rates. The history of the Queensland Government railways regarding freight charges is such that  the  least said about it the better. 
Let us examine the record of the Queensland Railway Department. It is true that Queensland has  2i  times more route miles than the standard States, Victoria and New South Wales. It can be truly argued that the capacity per ton mile in Queensland is only 50 per cent of the capacity in those standard States. But it can be equally argued, and it is equally true, that surplus revenue from the Queensland railways is $5.8 per capita compared with $1.7 per capita in the standard States of New South Wales and Victoria. Whenever 1 have had the opportunity to do so - whether on the hustings or in any other place where 1 can lend my voice - I have challenged and severely criticised the policy of the Queensland Government in regard to freight concession rates. I believe that these rates are unjust and inequitable in their treatment of the country areas of Queensland. For years, throughout the length and breadth of Queensland, people in the country areas have been raising their voices in full blooded protest against these iniquitous freight concessions that are granted to southern businesses by the Queensland Government. 
I turn to a consideration of the revenue and operating costs of the Queensland Railway Department. In its annual report for 1971, the Queensland Railways Department stated that a capital loss of $10m was sustained on passenger traffic throughout the State. Of that $10m, $7m was shown as a loss in the Southern Division of the Railway Department. Why did this loss occur in the Sourthern Division of the State? We see on the other hand that the overall profit in the Central Division and the Northern Division on an annual basis was $17m. So it can be readily seen by all who are interested that the Centra! and Northern Divisions of the Queensland Railway Department are heavily subsidising the Southern Division which has run at a loss every year since that Division has been in operation. 
Thank you, senator. The main reason for the loss can be shown by a simple arithmetical exercise of which I will give an example. The main reason for the loss is the low freights which are charged in the Southern Division in comparison with the high freights charged in the Central and Northern Divisions. I will repeat that statement because it is the punch line to the remarks that I will make supporting my claim that the Queensland Government made a weak submission in trying to base its case on freight charges. The policy of the Queensland coalition Government, the Country Party-Liberal Party Government, is to charge low freight rates in the Southern Division but to charge country people - I want  Senator Maunsell  and  Senator Lawrie  to take note of these remarks - who reside in the Central Division and in the Northern Division high freight rates. 
The claim has been made by all interested parties of all political persuasions that the present policy of the Queensland Government on freight concessions and freight charges can determine the success or failure of any provincial or country businessman. I support that claim. I would like to see the Country Party express an opinion on it. That is the situation that exists in Queensland today. The low freight rates charged in the Southern Division as against the higher freight charges in the Central and Northern Divisions bring imbalance. The most cruel thing of all is that the policy pursued by the Government determines the success or otherwise of any business in the provincial or country areas of Queensland. If Country Party senators agree with that policy, I say that they are not worth their salt and that they are not truly representing here the people whom they claim to represent. I look forward to hearing the stand which Country Party senators will take on the claims that I am making. It is unfair for the Queensland Government not to give any consideration to regional needs. What it does is to enter into secret, confidential agreements tor freight concession rates for southern business people. These rates place these business people at an advantage to enter into territories which had always been recognised as country marketing areas. This policy permits them to operate in these areas at an advantage to provincial and country manufacturers or businessmen. 
When the Labor Party was in office in Queensland, freight concessions were published and advertised, together with the reasons for granting those freight concessions. This practice was discontinued by the Country Party-Liberal Party Government in Queensland in 1959. I happened to be a member of the staff of the Chief Railway Auditor's Office. I know that the Labor Government entered into business discussions with and allowed concessional rates to certain contractors and manufacturers. That is the logical course of business. But, having done so, that Government made public, for each and every other businessman to see, details of these arrangements in the weekly notices published by the Railway Department and on the advertising boards at every goods yard. Not only did the Labor Government give details of the names of the firms with which it had entered into these contracts; it also supplied the reasons for doing so. 
In 1959  -  I want the Senate to keep that year in mind as it will prove a very important year in the would be harmonious relations of the Country-Liberal Party coalition 
Government in Queensland - as I said earlier, the Country-Liberal Party coalition Government in Queensland discontinued the practice of advertising confidential freight concession rates or freight concession agreements that it had entered into. 
In 1959 2 senior Liberal Ministers of that coalition Government connived at a plan whereby they could railroad their Country Party colleagues of the coalition Government. The only people who have not woken up to it are the Country Party members of the coalition. How did they do it? Those 2 Ministers entered into arrangements with southern businessmen by granting southern businesses confidential, secret concessional freight rates that allowed those southern businessmen and manufacturers to proceed into Country Party areas and to compete with advantage against their provincial business competitors. It has been claimed - and I have never seen any denial of it by any Liberal .member or by any executive officer of the Liberal Party - that in return for those concessions the campaign fighting fund of the Liberal Party received considerable and handsome contributions. It has been claimed in the Press, and it has been said at public meetings, that in return for those concessional freight rates, those business people made healthy contributions to the fighting fund of the Liberal Party in Queensland. 
I ask honourable senators to take their minds back to what I said a few minutes ago. Is it merely coincidental that this plan for the special confidential freight concessions was concocted in the same year as that in which the coalition Government in Queensland decided to discontinue the publishing of freight concession rates? It seems to me - and I am trying to be fair minded about this - that all this happened in 1959 when -members of the Liberal Party, in their determination for their Party to become the senior member of the coalition Government in Queensland, were prepared to railroad their Country Party colleagues by entering into this sort of business arrangement whereby low, secret and confidential concessional freight rates could be granted to southern businessmen to the disadvantage of Country Party men. 
If  Senator Lawrie  and  Senator Maunsell  think thai is legitimate business practice. I will let them keep it; but to members of tbe Australian Labor Party it is something that requires investigation and exposure. 
In the last election campaign in Queensland 3 years ago it was only natural that the Country Party Premier of Queensland and his Cabinet Ministers, on their tours of the State, would come in for some criticism in country areas regarding the inequality of freight charges. The opposition from country people to the Queenslaud Government policy on freight concessions whs so strong and continued that the Premier promised then that he would have a searching inquiry made into freight anomalies in Queensland. The Queensland Government appointed a firm of management consultants by the name of Beckingsale Management Services Pty Ltd. Now, 3 years later and on the eve of another election, the Country Party is silent about the results of the inquiry. No-one has heard anything about it, yet the management consultants completed their report and handed it to Cabinet 8 months ago. I cannot find out the reason for the reluctance of the Country Party section of the Queensland coalition Government to take some action to correct the anomalies that exist with regard to freight charges in Queensland. I say sincerely that I would readily welcome advice from the 2 Country Part)' senators from Queensland if they could give me this information in the course of iiic debate. This policy of secret contracts for freight concessions should be condemned throughout Australia. As 1 said, I appeal to the Country Party senators to stand in their places and to add their protest against this iniquitious strangling of Country Party areas. 
To keep the record straight. I will give some comparisons or examples of rate differences. The first is on packaged beer. The freight from Cairns to Winton, a distance of 580 miles, is $61.95 a ton, but from Brisbane to Winton, a distance of 934 miles, it is $33 a ton. That is $28 a ton less freight when packaged beer is carted 354 miles further. The bulk beer freight rate from Brisbane to Townsville is 7c a ton mile and the packaged beer rate is 2c a ton mile. Now let me get on to something more solid than beer - cement, about which we may hear something later. 
The freight rate on cement from Brisbane to Normanton is $39.90 a ton, but from Townsville to that centre it is $42 a ton. 
The honourable senator wants to learn his geography. He does not know the railway stations in Queensland. But I do not want to be too hard on him. The cost of railing furniture from Cairns to Brisbane is $15 a ton. This enables the Brisbane manufacturer to obtain the special furniture timbers from north Queensland at a low rate. By comparison, joinery sent from Cairns to Brisbane is charged at the rate of $70 a ton, and therefore North Queensland people could not possibly compete on the Brisbane market. In case the Country Party senators want some proof and examples of freight anomalies, there they are. These questions remain unanswered in Queensland, and we are asking the Country Party Premier to answer them. When will he make public the findings of the inquiry by the management consultant firm of Beckingsale Management Services Pty Ltd? I challenge him l.o do so before election day, 27th May. When will he do something to correct the iniquitous system of confidential concessional freight rates and low rate charges that are made in the Southern Division of the Queensland railways in comparison with what is charged in the Northern and Central Divisions? So much for railway freight concessions. 
The submission by the Queensland Government came under very strong criticism in another section of the Commonwealth Grants Commission's report. 1 repeat that this is not an attempt to make political capital in the sense of criticism being made by one political party of another; it is criticism that has been published in the Commonwealth Grants Commission report, a Federal Government document. It expresses the view of top public servants and members of the Federal Treasury. The Commission had something to say about Queensland's submission that it wanted additional cash grants. On page 11 paragraph 24 of the report in relation to royalties it states: 
The Commonwealth Treasury suggested that the value of mining output might give some indication of capacity to rai.se mining royalties. This would suggest that Queensland's capacity is above standard; and as the royalties collected per head of population in Queensland are below the average per capita for the standard States it would appear that Queensland makes a relatively low effort in this field. 
Why did they make a relatively low effort in this field? Last year 6.S million tons of bauxite was mined at Weipa at a cost of $37m. The royalties which came to the Queensland Government from that $37rn worth of bauxite amounted to $412,000 or 1 per cent. The royalty rate is 5c a ton for bauxite produced for local use and 10c a ton for that exported. Yet, just across the Gulf at Gove the Commonwealth Government negotiated rates of 10c to 20c for local use and 30c for export. That is 3 times the pittance accepted by the Country-Liberal Party Government of Queensland. I could go on endlessly. This evening if I had to fill in a filibuster how delighted I would be. One could go on and tell of all the inadequacies of this Government. Now I turn to coal. According to the Minister for Mines and Main Roads.  Mr Camm  - in Queensland he is a Country Party Minister for Mines - the estimated production of export coal in Queensland in 1970-71 amounted to 7i million tons, valued at $83.4m. What does the Queensland Government receive from royalties? At the present moment it obtains 5c a ton, the price of an ice cream. This agreement is effective until the year 2000. By that time, with inflationary trends, 5c will be worth about 2c. That is an example of the hard bargaining strategy or expertise of the Queensland Government when it deals with overseas business. 
 I must say, in fairness to the 2 Australian Country Party senators, that they have been quiet. They are apparently absorbing what I am saying and receiving an education. That is to their credit. If they have some common sense I hope that at least before the elections they will ask these pertinent questions of their colleagues in the Queensland Government. I wish to make some other comments. All honourable senators know that in 1969 the Commonwealth Government introduced the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act. In October, when I was a relatively new senator, I saw the first relevant annual statement for the year 1969-70 tabled. Being a parochial Queens lander I turned to see the Queensland effort. To my amazement it was nil. I was shocked. Under the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act 1969 the Commonwealth provides $25m which does not require a matching grant. It is a gift to the States to be spent in 5 years to erect dwellings for single age pensioners so that they can obtain dwellings at a reasonable rental under decent living conditions. 
The honourable senator is not annoyed at this? lt is a gift to the States. No strings were attached ro it. The only condition laid down was that the dwelling had to be of the value of $8,500 and the rental about $3 a week. The allocation made to the States had to be spent in a 5 year period. The first annual report was tabled. It showed that in the first year some 665 dwellings had been completed under this Act at a cost of approximately $3.5m. New South Wales had built 229, Victoria 316, South Australia 100, Tasmania 20 and Queensland was considering plans for building some. 
And it has a Country Party Minister for Works and Housing. 
Apparently not. I raised this matter in the Senate through the generosity of honourable senators. They gave me leave to speak at the time this report was tabled. On that occasion I expressed how shocked I was at the laziness and the lack of interest- 
And the incompetency 
And the indifference of the Queensland Government in relation to aged people. Immediately this matter received some highlight in the Press the Queensland Country Party Minister for Works and Housing came to life and said that the Government was going to draw up plans for the building of 18 dwellings. So many were to be built at Mount Isa and so many somewhere else. He said that the matter was well in hand. Yet at the end of the first year the Queensland Government's effort was nil. I looked forward to an improved performance in the ensuing 12 months. The other day the second annual statement under the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act 1969 was tabled. The number of dwellings erected throughout the Commonwealth had increased to 1.433. Almost $9m of the Commonwealth grant of $25m has been spent. But let us have a look at the State breakup. New South Wales has erected 498 dwellings, Victoria 611, South Australia 150, Western Australia 104 and Tasmania 52. But what is the stale of the poll in Queensland? lt is credited by a sympathetic Queensland Federal Minister for Housing with having 18 dwellings under consideration for construction. That is as wide as the Thames. One could say that 180 dwellings were under consideration. But the state of the poli is nil. Actually nothing has been done. 
This must have some relationship to Queensland's treatment by the Federal Treasury. When these people are considering the application for additional and special grants from Queensland they must know that $25m has been allocated to the Stales and that Queensland has only 3 years to go in which to spend $3£m. That is the amount which has been allocated to Queensland but its effort in the first 2 years has been nil. I think that this is an extraordinary stale of affairs. It shows the incompetency, the lack of interest and the incapacity of the State Country-Liberal Party to govern. But when it comes to spending money on themselves they are not behind the door. At the same time as none of this $25m was being spent in Queensland the Premier saw fit to spend $100,000 on a private aircraft for himself. He has a full-time pilot standing by to fly him wherever he wants to go. Charter flights arc good enough for Federal Members of Parliament but not for Country Party members in Queensland. Not only do we find that the Government spent $100,000 on a private aeroplane plus the wages of a full-time pilot standing by, but the Premier's public relations people say that he has to Improve his political image. He has accepted their advice - at a cost of $60,000 to the people of Queensland. He has bought a teleprompter, which was imported from the United States of America at a cost of $5,000, to help him in his television performances. It has been estimated that a further $50,000 of government funds will be spent before 27th May in an endeavour to improve his image. I would hate to be the public relations man. Some of the criticism about this waste of money and this idle spending must be levelled at the Liberal Party in Queensland. 
 I will leave it to the honourable senator to deal with that subject. I know that the honourable senator has a very strong case to put and I would not want to steal his thunder. As I was saying, some criticism can also be levelled at the Liberal Party in Queensland because of what happened when the Queensland Treasurer was knighted. I have no objection to his receiving that honour from  Her  Majesty, but what was wrong with his coming to Canberra and participating in a ceremony conducted by the Governor-General of Australia,  Sir Paul  Hasluck, instead of putting the taxpayers of Queensland to the expense of paying for him to go to Buckingham Palace, especially as this happened at a time when we were all being asked to be austere and when his federal leader was asking us to tighten our belts? 
Another subject with which I wish to deal and which brings in much revenue to Queensland is the Totalisator Administration Board of Queensland. I relate the activities of the TAB lo this Bill on the basis that the Queensland Government derives millions of dollars annually from that source. If the story 1 am about to relate is nol repudiated or denied that revenue could be seriously reduced. The turnover of the TAB in Queensland for the first 45 weeks of this financial year reached the staggering total of $86,797,550. which is more than the entire turnover in the previous financial year. I think most people know that the Government gets a healthy rake-off from the totalisator turnover. Apart from the compulsory deduction of 5 per cent or whatever percentage it is, revenue is also derived from unclaimed dividends. This runs into some millions of dollars over a period of years. There is also the fact that dividends are paid to the nearest fraction. Thai revenue remains the property of the Government. It can be seen from a quick arithmetical exercise that the TAB is worth millions of dollars annually to the Queensland Government. 
The point I wish to make is that there have been serious murmurings and rumours in Queensland - the dogs have been barking it in Queen Street - of a takeover of the betting business in that State. I am not referring to the totalisator, The dogs are barking that a cartal of bookmakers is endeavouring to take over the betting business in Queensland. That in itself is serious enough. But when that cartel, in an endeavour to support its own aims, uses Mafia-like tactics  -  I am not referring to guns or bombs but to the other Mafia practices of intimidation, strong arm tactics, standover methods and persuasion by the use of ultimatums - it is time to take heed. As I have said, the dogs are barking this in Queen Street. In every corner of Queensland where there is racing one hears these murmurings. I do not know whether they are true, but I think that where there is smoke there is blue cod. 
Of course I am suspicious of it. I think it is up to the Minister for racing in Queensland- 
The Treasurer of Queensland,  Sir Gordon  Chalk. I think it is up to the Minister to take notice of what 1 am saying and have a police inquiry or a judicial inquiry into the allegations I am making. I am saying that it has been said that there was recently established in Queensland a bookmakers' council; that all of the registered bookmakers throughout the length and breadth of Queensland have been invited to join it; and that one of the conditions of joining is that each bookmaker must deposit as a fidelity fund with the bookmakers' council a deposit of $1,000. I gather that there would be more than 500 registered bookmakers throughout Queensland. So a ready made fund of $500,000 would be available to the bookmakers' council for its use. One of the terms of the constitution of the council is that it has the authority to invest this money and give the bookmakers 4 per cent interest on their deposits. Those of us who have had some experience in the field of racing may know that that money could be also used as a ready made 'mike' by any bookmaker who might bc temporarily short. Anyway, the council has the right to invest the money and all it has to give in return to the bookmakers who deposit the money is 4 per cent interest on their money. That in itself might not sound coo bad, but why is it necessary for this deposit in view of the fact that bookmakers who now field with any registered racing club, trotting club or greyhound racing club take out a fidelity fund at the club's request with an insurance company. 
I have been told that these bookmakers have now elected an executive and that the executive has been elected for a 5-ycar period, but that no-one can say how or by what means. I have been told also that this executive which has been elected for a 5- year period and which is now asking its fellow bookmakers to contribute $1,000 towards a fidelity fund will handle the $500,000 that will be in this fund. But that is not the point, although it is in itself something which might warrant some criticism. The point is it is an approach which has not been appreciated by the majority of bookmakers in Queensland. Bookmakers registered with associations throughout the State are refusing to join the council. I feel that this matter should be investigated by the Queensland Treasurer because, in its endeavours to persuade bookmakers to join the council the officers are saying that this is being done at the wish of the Treasurer of Queensland or the Minister for racing in that State. 
Anybody with a knowledge of racing will know that in the month of June licences for the ensuing 12 months are issued. Many bookmakers are worried as to whether their licences will be renewed. Many of them are married men with families. They do not know whether their livelihood is in jeopardy or whether they can continue as bookmakers because it is being said to them in Mafia style, that if they do not join the Bookmakers Council their licences could be in jeopardy. That in itself is sufficient to warrant a police or judicial inquiry. It is coincidental that the executive officers of the bookmakers' council are also members of the Mafia-style cartel to which I have been referring. As I have said, the dogs are barking this in Queen Street. It is widely claimed that a  Mr Kevin  Kent is the Godfather, that a  Mr Joe  Cerutti is the Don and that another member of the family is  Mr Stan  Sheldon. They are 3 prominent people in the Queensland bookmakers' council. It has been said that they are interfering also with the betting fluctuations on the various courses. 
I could go on at length in regard to the accusations that are being made about these people. I do not know whether they are right or wrong. I am not for one minute suggesting that they are being acquiesced in by the Minister for racing. The assortment of claims, murmurs, rumours, and barkings are so commonplace in every corner of the State that I am surprised that the Queensland Minister has not heard of them himself. If he has not heard them I hope he will hear them now and will take some action to investigate the accusations, by means of either a police inquiry or a judicial inquiry and also will tell the people who will be making applications for licences in the next month, and the people of Queensland generally, what the situation is. He cannot tell the State Parliament because it has been in recess for 3 months and will not meet again for approximately another 4 months. So if he cannot tell the State Parliament I give him the alternative of putting at ease the decent people who are associated with bookmaking. If the accusations being made about these Mafia type people are false - as I have said, one is the Don, another is the Godfather and another is a member of the family; they are 3 prominent citizens in Brisbane - I think the public of Queensland should be told, and the person to accept this responsibility is the Minister in charge of racing in Queensland. He has a record of being a most knowledgeable person in the field of racing. He had a close association with racing before he entered the Parliament. 
I bring this matter before the Senate knowing that it rightly comes within the province of the State. Nevertheless I think it is of such importance that it should be ventilated in some Parliament. I know full well that the proper place in which to ventilate it is the Queensland Parliament but how on earth can one get that Parliament to sit? If it were sitting at the present time this matter would be raised in that Parliament. Some anxiety exists among bookmakers regarding these alleged activities, and in fairness to them and to the people of Queensland a public statement also should be made by the Minister in charge of racing. I heard  Senator Gair  say earlier by way of interjection: 'What about the dogs barking at the 'Gabba?" I have some personal knowledge of that. I will not weary the Senate on that but I will say that back in September last year the member for Beroona presented 9 submissions to the Minister in charge of racing. We are still awaiting an answer giving us the gory details of how the night greyhound racing licence in Queensland was granted. 
To summarise we on this side of the chamber support the Bill before the House because the money is needed by Queensland. We have shown that the State has a deficit in its accumulated funds of more than Slim. We reserved the right to make public and to comment upon the criticisms made by the Commonwealth Treasury officials to the effect that Queensland's submissions were incompetent and that the application was drafted by incompetent people. We have mentioned the challenge to the credibility and skill of the representatives who prepared the case. We have stated at length, I think, the history of the confidential freight concession rates in Queensland. Under a Labor government those rates were made public but in 1959 this practice was discontinued by the Country Party-Liberal Government. We have mentioned the failure of the Country Party Premier of Queensland to table and publish the findings of the management consultant firm of Beckingsale which were brought down 8 months ago so that the electors of Queensland would know what they contained. We have dealt with the criticism of the Commonwealth Treasury officials in relation to royalty rates - they are just the value of an ice-cream. We have dealt with the allegations regarding the Mafia style bookmakers cartel which wants to move in and control betting in Queensland. We have mentioned also that in the interests of the public the Minister responsible for racing should make a statement. In addition we have mentioned that the Country Party Minister for Housing in Queensland has not built homes for single aged pensioners even though Queensland has been granted a gift of $3£m by the Commonwealth Government. It seems that he. cannot  6pend  any of it even though the other States are finding it easy to do so. 
I would like to know where Country Party senators from Queensland stand in regard to the matter of confidential freight concession rates. Although I have been throughout the length and breadth of the State recently in connection with the State election campaign and have directed questions to members of the Country Party in the various areas I have visited, I have received no reply. I repeat that I am looking forward to receiving an explanation, support or condemnation, from Country Party senators from Queensland in relation to this matter. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Will the Minister make an effort on behalf of country storekeepers in the far western areas of Queensland, and other drought stricken areas, so that they may receive low interest loans with very favourable repayment periods on similar lines to those already available to assist primary producers in these areas in view of the fact that the financial hardship of storekeepers is no less than that of primary producers? 
I want to speak on the motion for the third reading of the Queensland Grant Bill 1972. There is a saying that there are none so blind as those who do not want to see. I think that phrase sums up the attitude that was taken by  Senator Cotton.  He made an extraordinary statement when he said that the Opposition turned the debate into an election campaign and that at no time did the Commonwealth Grants Commission make the criticisms that the Opposition claimed it had made. I suggest to  Senator Cotton  that he should do some homework. He should study carefully the Commonwealth Grants Commission's report and arrive at his own conclusions, not those contained in the prepared speech that was given to him. For instance, on page 11 of the Commission's report it is stated: 
The Commonwealth Treasury expressed a belief that the material presented in Queensland's submission concerning the 1971-72 budgets of Queensland and the standard States - 'is not necessarily reliable as an overall guide to whether or not a special grant is justified and, if so, of what size.' 
The report continues in paragraph 22, part (iii): 
Uncertainty as to the validity of 'a great deal of detailed argument and workings in the State submission.' 
In paragraph 24 the report states: 
The Commonwealth Treasury suggested that the value of mining output might give some indication of capacity to raise mining royalties. This would suggest that Queensland's capacity is above standard; and as the royalties collected per head of population in Queensland arc below the average par capita for the standard States it would appear that Queensland makes a relatively low effort in this field. 
I shall read what the report has to say on education. It is published in black and white and can be obtained at any office of the Australian Government Publishing Service, for everybody to see. Paragraph 25 of the report states: 
The Commonwealth Treasury contrasted this with its own approach, referred to in earlier reports of the Commission, which would assess relative needs in education by comparing the percentage of the eligible population in the total State population of the claimant State with the corresponding percentage for the standard States. Applying this comparison to Queensland would show a 'positive' need (that is, a need for a higher level of expenditure per head of population than in the standard States), in contrast to the negative' need shown by the Commission's method of comparing education expenditures on the basis of actual school enrolments. 
If those 4 paragraphs from the Commonwealth Grants Commission's report are not a caustic criticism of the submissions of the Queensland Government I would like  Senator Cotton  to explain to me why he feels that they are not. They are not, as he claimed, the accusations of the Australian Labor Party seeking to make political capital at a time when a State election is pending in Queensland. The Labor senators did their job in the debate properly. At the outset of their speeches they announced that they were supporting the Bill but that they reserved the right to make observations about the criticisms that had been levelled not by them but by top public servants of the Commonwealth - Federal Treasury officials. If  Senator Cotton,  as a Minister of the Crown, does not want to accept the advice of Treasury officials that is his business, and I am pleased that it is not mine. 

 Senator Maunsell is quoted at page 1682 of Hansard as saying: 
It is to the credit of the present Queensland Government that in the 15 years it has been in office the rail freights to the outlying areas of Queensland have been reduced and not increased, as one would expect in view of the way costs have increased in most other sectors. 
He complimented the Government for having reduced the rail freights to outlying areas of Queensland. He quoted an example. He said: 
The freight on groceries and other commodities of that nature from Brisbane to Longreach was as high as £98 a ton, but it has been reduced to $46 a ton. 
Converted to dollars, the freight has been reduced from $196 a ton to $46 a ton. I wonder whether  Senator Maunsell  knows on which side he is debating. That is the argument that we advanced at the outset. We challenged the Queensland Government on its concessional rate policy because it charges low rates to Brisbane business people so that they can freight their goods to the country areas and can compete at an advantage against their country or provincial competitors. That is the point we made. He congratulated the Government for doing that. In fairness to him, he had previously said: 
Wool freights into Brisbane have been reduced by some 20 per cent since 1956. 
That statement also supports the contention that we made. I made that statement in my speech. I said that the punch line on the confidential freight concession rates was that the Queensland Government's rail policy was to charge low freight rates in the Southern Division and to charge high freight rates in the Northern and Central Divisions. I thought I gave a very telling example of the point that I was trying to make. It was this: To freight packaged beer from Cairns to Winton, a distance of 580 miles, costs $61.95 a ton. The same commodity railed from Brisbane, which is a distance of 930 miles, costs only $33 a ton. That was the point that I was making. Surely if  Senator Maunsell  is here representing the country people of Queensland, as he should be, he should be joining forces with me and asking for an explanation. Instead, he congratulated the Queensland Government on what it was doing. 
I do not want to misrepresent him. I draw the conclusion that he, a Country Party senator from Queensland, felt that it was a good thing to charge low rail freights in Brisbane but that in the Northern and Central Divisions of Queensland which, in the main, are the Country Party areas, it is all right to charge high freights. He must take that argument to its logical conclusion in that if he agrees with that persuasion he must also agree that it is quite in order for the Queensland Government to enter into confidential concessional rates at low cost and not publish them, as the Labor Government did, for everybody to see. He must condone that part of the Queensland Government's policy also. I hope that before the debate concludes he will clear the matter up completely because if he maintains what he said, as quoted at page 1682 of Hansard, that he congratulates the Government for the low freights from Brisbane to the country, I will be very interested to see what kind of a Cinquevalli act he puts on when he goes to Longreach and explains his statement to the country people of Queensland. So much for the freight rates. 
I do not agree with the accusations made by  Senator Cotton  that the debate has turned into a political campaign, simply because the Opposition developed 4 arguments and issued to the Government 4 challenges which at this stage of the debate remain unanswered. The first challenge is a claim of incompetence, not by Labor Party senators but by the Commonwealth Grants Commission. I suggest to him, as an experienced Minister, that before he gets completely punch drunk because of the pounding he has received he should throw in the towel and call it a day in respect to the findings of the Treasury officials. On the second score,  I  do not know how he will explain why the Queensland Premier in 1969 gave an assurance to the people of Queensland, prior to the previous State election, that he would order an inquiry into the freight anomalies in Queensland. He did that to satisfy the electors whom  Senator Lawrie  and  Senator Maunsell  represent - the country people - because he knew full well the opposition that was being levelled at him because of the disparity in freight charges in the south as against those in the country. He gave an assurance to the electors of Queensland. Three years have passed and the report has not been tabled. Beckingsale Management Services Pty Ltd, the management consultant firm which was engaged to carry out the survey, completed it 8 months ago and handed the report to Cabinet. I challenge the Government, particularly the Country Party senators from Queensland, to tell the people of Queensland why that report and its findings have not been given to the Parliament or to the people of Queensland. That is the second score that has gone unanswered. I am hopeful that before the debate concludes some honourable senator might satisfy us on that matter. 
The third challenge and the third question that still remains unanswered relates to the $25m that has been given by the Commonwealth to the States to erect dwellings under the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act. Under that scheme $3im has been allocated to Queensland, with no matching grant required, to be spent in 5 years. In the first 2 years of the scheme $9m has been spent, but all of it has been spent in the other States. Nothing has been spent in Queensland. The Minister for Works and Housing in Queensland is a Country Party Minister. If asking a question in this Parliament about why Federal money, which is given as a grant to Queensland, is not being used is regarded as being political, I want to remain political all my life. I believe that the people of Queensland have a right to be told whether this money is wanted. 
I now turn to the fourth point that we raised, which still remains unanswered. I must admit that  Senator Wood  gave a very illuminating address, that is if I was sitting in the stock exchange building. We heard about the annual report of Comalco and the annual reports of several other mining companies. The only annual report he did not give us was that of the Queensland Government and they are the people who are under discussion. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - There is no point of order. If  Senator Wood  feels that he has been misrepresented he has the opportunity to reply to that misrepresentation at a later stage of the proceedings. 
I will accept the assurance of  Senator Wood  that he was not quoting from the annual reports of Comalco or other mining companies. If in fact, as he said, he was quoting facts regarding these companies, I will accept that. But this does not answer the criticism of the Commonwealth Grants Commission which suggested that royalties of 5c a ton for mining rights in Queensland was insufficient. 

 Senator Wood developed an argument in regard to railway lines that are being built. With all deference to  Senator Wood  - and I have a good opinion of him - I think I would prefer to accept the opinion of the Federal Treasury than his or my opinion on economic matters. I feel that the Commission has given good advice to Queensland that in the future that State should try to get greater royalties from mining contracts. As I said at the outset, members of the Opposition made 4 points on the second reading of this Bill. Other honourable senators have made some valuable points and we are not going to add a postscript to a good letter. However, I would like to make a point in regard to freight charges. I am disappointed and amazed to think that Government senators from Queensland have taken this lying down. They have made no attempt to refute the claims that I have made regarding confidential freight concession rates. They have made no attempt to refute the allegations of intrigue or the claim that the Queensland Government does not publicly advertise with whom it enters into confidential freight concession rates and the reasons why this information is withheld. They have not explained why the Queensland Government discontinued the practice of making this information available in 1959 when it had been the policy of previous Labor governments to do so. Government senators have not answered any of these questions. 
As Government senators are making no attempt to answer the questions, let me summarise and conclude my contribution on the third reading stage of this Bill by giving some advice to the Australian Country Party senators from Queensland. If they have no ammunition to fire themselves I will pass some on to them. What I have to say regards freight rates.  Senator Maunsell  cited groceries. I would like to State to the Senate some of the findings on groceries. There are many other discrepancies in freight rates, particularly in grocery items where some items of a similar nature are charged ridiculously different rates. For example, in some areas canned tomato juice is almost double the figure for canned fruit juice, and barbecue sauce almost twice the freight on vinegar. The sugar industry is an area about which Country Party senators should know something. However, that industry is in such a disarray over freight charges that it would prefer to use road rather than rail to transport its product. But the State Transport Act places a levy of 3c a ton mile outside a 25-mile radius on road transport. It is common sense to know that a 25-mile radius outside Brisbane would be a much more densely populated area than a 25-mile radius outside a country or provincial town. I would have thought that instead of remaining stunned in their seats Country Party and the other Queensland senators would have risen in their places and said that in the interests of the people who they represent in this chamber, the radius in country areas for this tax of 3c a ton mile should be increased to 50 miles as against 25 miles in the city. But they have remained silent. Therefore in conclusion, I hope I have given members of the Country Party something to think over and digest. 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that members of the Queensland Police Union are now conducting a ballot to decide whether they will proceed with a vote of no confidence in the Queensland Country Party-Liberal coalition Government and also in the Police Commissioner in relation to their attitudes towards demonstrations? Does not the vote indicate criticism of the Queensland Government in this matter? 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that at Wandoan, a country town in Queensland, there is a serious plague of mice which is ravaging the community? Is the Minister aware also that the 2 storekeepers in the town are facing financial ruin as most of their stock has been eaten and what is left has been destroyed by the fouling caused by the mice? As the Government is presently considering assistance to primary producers, will the Minister see what he can do by way of Commonwealth assistance for these unfortunate country storekeepers? 
Document No. 3 reads: 
It is a balance sheet. 
With respect, I will speedily go through the payments - the expenditure side - and then seek leave to table it if I may. In fairness to the Minister who will reply, I think he would like to know the items and the payments. 
The expenditure side shows: 

<graphic href="052232197205241_87_1.jpg"></graphic>

Receipts are shown as follows - 
I shall now list the receipts: 

<graphic href="052232197205241_88_0.jpg"></graphic>

I have read from the documents which 1 was refused leave to have incorporated in Hansard. They will be there now for everybody to see and to judge. 1 hope that if it does nothing else, it will allow decency to come to the surface. I will be awaiting an explanation, which I have sought tonight, of the $4,000 for the fighting fund. If the Queensland Bookmakers Council is not willing to give the information in response to a request by its members, I think it is the duty of the Minister in charge of racing in Queensland,  Sir Gordon  Chalk, to tell us about it. Nobody should know better than he, as Minister, who got the $4,000. I made my case last Tuesday week. I must say that as a new senator I am very disappointed in the attitude that was adopted in the chamber this evening. Since I have been here, I have endeavoured to fight hard and fairly. I have tried to support with documented evidence everything I have put forward in this chamber, but when I made my speech on the Queensland Grant Bill last Tuesday week I did not have that evidence. I received it as a result of statements made to the Press. 
I say in conclusion that everybody I have mentioned should welcome a public inquiry - a judicial or police inquiry - because if they have nothing to hide they have nothing to fear. 
The letter is over the signature of some 80 licensed North Queensland Racing Association bookmakers. The signatures are all here. The letter is dated 11th February 1972. It is addressed to the Minister for Racing, the honourable  Sir Gordon  Chalk, K.B.E., Parliament House, Brisbane. It states: 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General and is supplementary to that asked earlier by  Senator Keeffe.  As Queensland is now a claimant State and Commonwealth finance is involved, will the Attorney-General inquire into the bona fides of the Queensland Government and the serious complaints before the courts that drought and relief funds have been improperly distributed in that State? 
In addressing my remarks to the Queensland Grant Bill 1972 on Tuesday, 16th May 1972, 1 made reference to the millions of dollars turnover in Queensland in the gambling sports. I mentioned that now Queensland is a claimant State if a move by a cartel of bookmakers to take over the gambling business in Queensland was not investigated and cleaned up, the State could lose millions of dollars in the way of turnover tax, plus the fact that being a claimant State, Queensland is now subject to budgetary restrictions and auditing procedures by the Commonwealth Treasury which would place Queensland in a bad light. In presenting that story I made certain claims. Subsequently, Press statements have been made by one of the gentlemen to whom I referred,  Mr Stan  Sheldon,  President  of the Queensland Bookmakers Council, to the effect that his 
Council is beyond reproach, that it has the support of 10 organisations and that the claims that 1 made were untrue and unfounded. People who have known me for any length of time know that I do not go off half cocked. I have in my possession this evening 9 documents which I will itemise and then ask for leave of the Senate to have incorporated in Hansard so that people reading Hansard will be able to decide the matter for themselves. They are documents which will fully substantiate the claims which I made in my address on 16th May. I shall list briefly the 9 documents, they are:  1, A list o£ bookmakers associations recognised by the Queensland Bookmakers Council and showing the large scale resignations in each instance;  2,  Letters from the Queensland Bookmakers Council intimating that all bookmakers had to join the Council and that only upon joining could they expect to become licensed bookmakers; 3, A circular sent to all members of their association by the North Queensland Racing Association bookmakers; 4, A second circular sent to all members of their association by the North Queensland Racing Association bookmakers; 5, A list of individual resignations from the Queensland Bookmakers Council by north Queensland bookmakers; 6. A petition sent to the  Hon.  the Minister in charge of Racing,  Sir Gordon  Chalk, K.B.E., by the Licensed North Queensland Racing Association Bookmakers protesting against the action and attitude of the Queensland Bookmakers Council; 7. Comment on the Queensland Bookmakers Council in the Cairns 'Post' of 14th January 1972; 8, A letter from the Mackay Bookmakers Association to the North Queeusland Racing Association protesting about being forced or bound in any way to  join the Queensland Bookmakers Council; 9, A new document - a statement of receipts and payments for the period from 1st October 1969 to 31st October 1971, duly audited by B. M. Scott, public accountant, and showing an amount of $4,000 in a fighting fund. Bookmakers  are upset and concerned that details regarding the fighting fund are not available and they that feel pandemonium would be let loose if particulars regarding the $4,000 were made public. 1 must admit that an extraordinary situation exists and has been allowed to continue by the officers of the Queensland Bookmakers Council not doing everything humanly possible to explain the item in their balance sheet when they have had so many requests to do so. I believe that it is the duty of the Minister in charge of Racing in Queensland,  Sir Gordon  Chalk, to tell the bookmakers the story about the $4,000 if the Queensland Bookmakers Council will not. I ask for leave of the Senate to have these documents incorporated in Hansard. 
I shall read document No. 1. It is interesting to quote the constitution of the Queensland Bookmakers Council. The first document reads: 
The Council shall consist of the following organisations: 
Townsville and District Bookmakers Association. (Some 23 of their members resigned from the QBC on 7.2.72.) 
Queensland Greyhound Bookmakers Association. (Their Association resigned from the Council on 8.2.72.) 
St Leger Bookmakers Association. (Their Association resigned from the Council on 8.3.72.) 
Gold Coast Bookmakers Association. (Most of these members have stated that they will not join the Council.) 
 Downs and South Western Bookmakers Association.(Most of these members state that they will not join the Council.) 
Rockhampton and District Bookmakers Association. (It is said that they will not contribute to the Council.) 
QTC Paddock Bookmakers Association. (Some 36 members resigned from the Council on 1.2.72.) 
Provincial Bookmakers Association. (Became dissociated from the QBC on 11.1.72.) 
Far Northern Queensland Bookmakers Association. (Some SO members resigned from the Council on 7.2.72.) 
Mt Isa Bookmakers Association. (Their Association resigned from the QBC on 8.2.72.) and such other associations of Bookmakers and kindred bodies as the Council may from time to time determine. 
We ask: 'Would the Queensland Bookmakers Council now still be acting within their Constitution, by entering into an arrangement with the Queensland Government under section 104a  -  Bookmakers Guarantee Scheme?' 
It is believed that there are some 600 to 700 registered bookmakers in the State and at a guess it is doubtful if the Queensland Bookmakers Council has bonded 35 of these bookmakers. Therefore they do not represent any more than 5 per cent of bookmakers in the State if this be the case. 
Document No. 2 is a letter on the letterhead of the Queensland Bookmakers Council and bears the signature of S. Sheldon, the  President. His  address is 504 Marine Parade, Labrador. The letter is dated 9th November 1971. 
Instead of having the documents incorporated in Hansard, you could seek leave to table them. 
I want them in Hansard, with respect,  Mr President. 
With respect, I would like them in Hansard. Could I seek leave to have the remainder of the documents incorporated in Hansard? 
The second document reads: 
To the Presidents of all Affiliated Associations'. 
The Council has been duly notified by  Sir Gordon  Chalker, K.B.E., that the Racing and Betting Amendment Act received Royal Assent on Monday, 1st November 1971. Consequently, the provisions relating to the Bookmakers Guarantee Fund are now in force. 
I enclose a copy of a letter forwarded to the principal Licensing Authority in your district, which should be self-explanatory. I believe this authority will advise the Bookmakers in your district of the added requirement to be a Government Licensed Bookmaker. 
As soon as this advice has been received,  Mr J.  Cerutti. (Treasurer of the. Quensland Bookmakers Council) and myself will visit your Association Headquarters to meet your Executive and district Bookmakers. Arrangements can then he made for the collection of the necessary bond money which will enable them to become accredited and thus have the financial status to be licensed as Bookmakers. 
Copies of the Act, together with copies of Hansard, will be forwarded to you as soon as they are available from the Government Printer. 
Also in that document is another letter bearing the signature of S. Sheldon,  President,  of the same address, 504 Marine Parade, Labrador. It is on Queensland Bookmakers Council letterhead. The council's motto is: 'He profits most who serves best'. The second letter which is part of document No. 2 reads: 
No, I described him as a K.B.E. The document continued. 
We have been unable to contact you to sign the original petition but your signature on this copy will give further weight to our fight against any attempt by the 'Queensland Bookmakers Council1 to Demand money from us. 
We have sent a similar petition to the NQRA but as they are already opposed to the 'Queensland Bookmakers Council' we feel it necessary for you to add your signature to this one only and thus speak as a body to the Minister for Racing. 
In a letter received on 9th February 1972. from  Mr W.  Gillman, Solicitor, of Dean, Gillman and Thompson, he states: 'It is my opinion that a Bookmaker licensed by the NQRA is not bound nor is he under any obligation to become a member of a Bookmakers Association or of the "Queensland Bookmakers Council". If Bookmakers licensed by the NQRA wish to dissociate themselves from any agreement made by the Council or their Association then they should resign from that Council or their Association.' 
NQRA Bookmakers 
I turn now to document No. 4 which is a circular sent to all North Queensland Racing Association bookmakers. With respect. 

 Mi Acting Deputy President, may I have the rest of the documents incorporated in Hansard? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Is leave granted? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTLeave is not granted. 
Sentaor McAULIFFE - I will wear them down. Document No. 4 reads: 
At a meeting of the Townsville and District Bookmakers Association on 7th February 1972, a motion was passed by an overwhelming majority that when the question of guarantees arised, that we have a choice as to how we wish to be guaranteed and no pressure be brought to bear on any licensee to join any particular body. A letter to the NQRA and also one to the Minister for Racing,  Sir Gordon  Chalk was to be sent. Also money which was about to be sent to the Queensland Bookmaker's Council was withheld. This clearly indicates that Northern Bookmakers are suspicious of the whole set up and propaganda of the Queensland Bookmakers Council. This body through the press and by two expense paid propaganda tours to the North has been telling everyone that it is law and compulsory to give them $1,000 and $25 membership fees with the threat of not being granted a licence in the coming year. 
This is a deliberate falsehood and in the recently passed 'Racing and Betting Act Amendment Act' the Queensland Bookmakers Council is not even mentioned! This is the most blatant and obnoxious attempt to frighten licensees into giving $1,025 to a few organised schemers who want $700,000 plus 700 $25's per year subscription from the Queensland Bookmakers. 
If anyone in his right mind wants to give then $1,000 plus $25 each year let him do so but the same amount given to the mafia would bear as much return or security. 
There are a very few brainwashed propagandists for this organisation still lobbying for it up here but do not be fooled by them. The only reason for suggesting the amount of $5,000 (personal) is to come in to line with the new Greyhound Board's requirements which has Government sanction and equals the amount of guarantees of the Queensland Bookmakers Council. There is not much doubt which choice we will make, the Fidelity Bond now in operation with the Trotting Board. Think for yourself, or reflect on the legal opinion obtained on 9th February 1972, of  Mr W.  Gillman, Solicitor of Dean Gillman and Thompson, of Townsville, who stated: 
It is my opinion that a bookmaker licensed by the NQRA is not bound, nor is he under any obligation to become a member of a bookmakers association or of the Queensland Bookmakers Council. If Bookmakers licensed by the NQRA wish to dissociate themselves from any agreement made by the Council or their Association, then they should resign from that Council or their Association.' 
The attached petitions signed- by NQRA Bookmakers should put an end to any further harassment by the Queensland Bookmakers Council. 
I come now to document No. 5. This document contains a list of names. I seek leave to have it incorporated in Hansard. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Is leave granted? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Leave is not granted. 
The list contains resignations in north Queensland from the Queensland Bookmakers Council. It reads: 
Townsville - A. Bell, A. Bowden, L. R. Bracken, J. M. Davidson, R. J. Franzman, D. L. Kilby, B. C. Kilby, W. H. Kinsey,  J.  I. Leonardi, W. A. Pascoe, W. R. Tamblyn, R. L. Taylor, W. E. Vause. C. J. Allingham, K. W. Cooney, V.  J.  Cummins, H. Langdon, A. V. Scarr, J. P. Shinnick, F. J. Tyrrell, D. W. Crowe, F. Clout, G. R. Stevens. 
Charters Towers - L. F. Mitchell, R. J. Sweeney, W. J. Thomasson, E. R. Torkington, C. H. Robins. Hughenden- J. P. Close, J. T. Paine. Home Hill- -W. B. Prizeman. Ayr  -  J. N. Leonardi. Cardwell- J. H. Cable. Ingham - S. Russo. 
Innisfail - C. J. Anderson, E. B. How Keo, W. L. Sue Yek, J. Lee, N. Lee. 
Mareeba- A. C. D. Best, T. J. Goodwin. D. W. Hughes, T. P. G. Meehan,J. F. Little. 
Atherton - J. M. Geraghty, E. G. Hopkins, P. Jue Sue, K. S. Sanderson. 
Yungaburra - N. Davis. 
Tolga- R. E. Allwood. 
Cairns - H. Davidson, J. C. Brown, R. F. Melvin, B. R. McKeown, B. McIntyre, K. R. Brewer, E. P. Lisha, M. H. Limkin, G. D. Chapman, G. J. Eustace. 
Mackay - T. Crittenden, A. Townsend, F.  J.  Paul, L. J. Palmer, T. W. Howell, J. J. Clerc, C. E. Cooley, A. P. Cuniac, E. F. Hanson, R. D. McLeod, J. J. Molloy, S. Gauci, F. Bilney. 
Mount Isa - T. Christison, R. H. Chambers, R. A. Howie, T. F. Maher, P. O'Keefe, F. Godier, A. H. Swan. K. H. Wyld, G. A. Saunders, R. M. Bakleash, R.  G.  Jenkin, R. Chambers, R. McLaughlin. 
We now come to document No. 6. I seek leave to have that document and the remainder of the documents incorporated in Hansard. 
Document No. 7 is a report in the Cairns 'Post' of Friday, 14th January 1972. It states: 
More than 40 Far North bookmakers have sent off a petition to appropriate authorities as a protest against  a  Betting and Gaming Act amendment which comes into operation in Queensland this year. 
The amendment calls for all registered bookmakers in the State to lodge $1,000 cash each with the Queensland Bookmakers Council before March  31 as  a guarantee against defaultment 
This in addition to having to pay premiums on a $5,000 fidelity bond each. 
Bookies have been told that unless they pay the money the QBC will advise the appropriate racing authority - in our case the NQRA - not to license the offender. 
The bookmakers will get 4 per cent a year interest on their money and will not be refunded the $1,000 until they retire from fielding. 
Copies of the petition have been sent to the QBC, NQRA and the Minister for Racing,  Sir Gordon  Chalk. 
Almost all Far North bookies have signed. 
They argue that the fidelity bond is sufficient to guard racing against a bookmaker defaulting. 
Many of them also want to know what will happen to the other 4 per cent as their capital is sure to be loaned out at no less than 7½ or 8 per cent. 
With close to 700 registered bookies in Queensland you don't need to be an Einstein to work out that there will be close to $28,000 in kitty once the bookmakers are paid their annual interest. 
It seems inequitable that a bookie in a remote country area who fields only six or eight times a year has to pay the same amount as a Brisbane man who stands up three times a week. 
That may be an extreme comparison even though the circumstances do exist. 
On the other hand it is hardly right that a Cairns fielder who holds little more than $1,000 a meeting should pay the same as a Brisbane paddock bookmaker who would hold 10 times that amount ON ONE RACE! 
Jack Devereux in Queensland was very active. He played a major role in both the political and industrial life of Queensland. Ballots, in accordance with the existing arbitration Act were carried out by the Metal Trade Unions. The results were accepted as being valid by both the Federal and State Registrars. I think it is an important point that ballots in accordance with the current arbitration Act were substantially carried by all unions and that the Federal and State Registrars accepted the validity of the ballots carried out. Let us have a look at figures so that they can be put in Hansard and will be there for future research. In the Amalgamated Engineering Union 6,976 voted for and 1,039 against. In the Sheet Metal Workers Union there were 8,832 for and 3,346 against. In the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society 9,620 voted for and 3,275 against. This made a total of 25,428 for and 7,660 against, representing a 3 to 1 majority. 
 Mr Deputy President- 
The Minister for Labour and National Service. 
Have you been here long? 
Do you think that it is bad arrangement? 
 It is not just for the sake of bigness; it is for the sake of other things that flow from it. 
We have arrived at an extraordinary situation in this chamber during this debate on the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. We are only half way through the second reading debate, yet despite assurances we heard earlier from honourable senators on the Government side and those representing the Democratic Labor Party that in their opinion this Bill is one of the most important to have come before the Senate, the Government apparently is bereft of speakers. It has beenleft to the Australian Labor Party again to adopt the role of the watchdog of the interests of the workers of this country. If the Government declines to bring speakers forward while still claiming that it has speakers left, this is further proof of the continuing lack of concern of the Liberal Party for the Parliament and the people. If the Government has run out of speakers because it has nobody with adequate capacity to continue the debate, the sooner it moves out and makes way for the Australian Labor Party to carry on the business of this nation the better it will be for all concerned. 
I read the second reading speech made by the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  and I think I can fairly claim that it contained six salient features. Honourable senators on this side of the chamber already have canvassed most of those features. They dealt with them effectively and adequately, so I am prompted to speak only about that feature dealing with the amalgamation of unions or organisations. After listening to  Senator Kane  and honourable senators on the Government side one would think that the amalgamation of unions was the brainchild of  Mr Laurie  Carmichael. 
I knew that the Attorney-General would come in. I purposely recapitulated what I said and quoted those figures in case I might have missed him. I knew that he would come in and say that that represents only a small minority. I know something of the ramifications of the Liberal Party and Australian Country Party organisations. They mushroom branches overnight to try to secure the endorsement of their candidates who aspire to become members of Parliament. I think the less the Minister says about that the better. 
I heard the honourable senator read from it the other night. It was the greatest argument against this Bill that could ever be developed in this Parliament. As I said, I welcome the Attorney-General coming in. I am pleased that he grabbed at the burley which I spread around for him. In the Bill which is before the Senate the proposal is that ballots can only be conducted among unionists who are on the electoral roll. Other members who are not entitled to vote are those who have been unfinancial continuously for the 12 months immediately preceding the opening of the ballot. I know that the Attorney-General has some electoral experience and intelligence. He knows that that qualification, for a start, reduces the voting membership to 90 per cent. Out of that 90 per cent more than 50 per cent of the unionists have to vote. Then a majority has to be obtained out of that number. I could go on and fire many shots which would explode the correctness of the proposition which the Government has before us. But 1 am going to let my case rest by quoting one of the AttorneyGeneral's colleagues - the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  who was the architect of this Bill. In a speech at the Central Industrial Secretariat dinner of the Australian Council of Employers Federations and the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia on 2nd March 1972 in Melbourne he said: 
The normal percentages in officially conducted ballots for office bearers range from 12 per cent to 75 per cent- 
Here is the punch line -  and in the majority of such elections less than 50 per cent of eligible members have voted. 
This practical comment on actual happenings proves the impracticability of the proposed legislation, particularly when it is remembered that the Minister bases his assessment on figures for a period when there were less safeguards in the old legislation than is proposed in the new. The Government is not fooling anybody. It knows as well as we do the saying which we have heard in this chamber before: There is none so blind as he who will not see.' The plain commonsense of this legislation is that the Government has been forced to introduce it against its wishes for political expediency. The purpose is to jump on to the backs of the Democratic Labor Party for its preferences. Without them the Government would have no hope of winning at the polls. Everybody knows that that is the reason why this Bill is being introduced. 
I must congratulate  Senator Carrick  on his eloquent address last night. But he did not come to grips with the matter before us. He quoted certain clauses and said that he would dissect them and have a look at them. I was beginning to think that we should nickname him 'mirror' because he wanted us to look into things all the time. He presented his argument along these lines but he did not come to grips with the main reason for this proposal. Let us clear the trees away so that we can see the wood and the main reason for the introduction of the Bill. I repeat that there is no doubt in my mind, as I know there is no doubt in the minds of anyone on this side of the chamber or in the minds of honourable senators on the other side that this Bill is a political stunt to try to save the Government's hide at the next election. 
It was the Attorney-General's own colleague. The Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party talks of communist influence. 1 have known the Leader of the DLP for some years. I must say that it is to his credit that one of his fortes and one of his chief bogies has been his opposition to the Communist Party. He has been consistent in this, even though in other instances he might be consistent in his inconsistency, particularly in the way in which he and his party vote on social service legislation in this chamber. But the Communist Party has fragmented. The Attorney-General and Government senators know that it has fragmented into so many divisions that it is hard to ascertain who holds executive positions. I can speak of Queensland. There is only one communist holding an executive position in any of the 3 metal trade unions and he will retire at any time. There again, there will be only one communist in the newly amalgamated body. I do not know whether my friend  Senator Gair  who apparently wants to interject is trying to give me a leg up or trying to shoot me down but I say this: If anyone wants to thumb the pages of history - I want the honourable senator to let me finish before he interjects - they will find, if they make a close political study of the history of Queensland, that during the time that the honourable senator was Premier of Queensland there were more communists in the trade union movement than there are at the present time. But if anyone were to say that that was brought about by the honourable senator's activity, they would be grossly unfair. Everyone in this chamber knows that when  Senator Gair  was Premier of Queensland, he was not responsible for all the communists in the Trades Hall. But it is a fact of history that during his premiership there were more communists associated with the trade union movement than there are now. 
I am not blaming the honourable senator for it. As 1 said before, no-one has been a greater fighter against communism than the honourable senator. Returning to the question of communism, if all the rantings about commumism by the Liberal Party are right,let me say that I can recall when it was shown to the world just where the Communist Party stood in relation to the Labor Party and the Liberal Party. The Communist Party has never been a supporter of the Labor 
Party, as was shown conclusively in the Federal election in 1961 when the fate of the then Prime Minister, Robert Gordon Menzies, was hanging in the balance.  Mr Killen  was the sitting Liberal member for the Queensland electorate of Moreton. In that electorate all the preference votes had to be counted. Even the Communist Party's preferences had to be counted. When they were counted, they elected  Mr Killen  as the Liberal member for Moreton and kept the Menzies Government in office. I say to members of the Democratic Labor Party: If they were sincere they should have appealed to the Liberal Party to resign because it retained office aided and abetted by the Communist Party's preference votes.  Senator Gair  knows as well as I do that it was the Communist Party's votes in 1961 that elected Jim Killen as the member for Moreton and returned the Menzies Government. 
If  Senator Gair  invites and tempts me, I might have to say something about him. If he behaves himself, he will get off scot free. He should not push his luck too far. I have been insulted by experts; I do not have to take insults from  Senator Gair. 
I thought I was developing a case on the Government's challenges and references to militancy in the trade union movement. I thought I was exploding its case and exposing it for the valueless propaganda that it is. However, I shall continue. The status quo has been preserved initially in relation to amalgamations as far as the Executive is concerned. I am suggesting that in future, with the larger amalgamated trade unions, it will be more difficult for the communists to be elected to office in those larger organisations which are and which will continue to be controlled by the Australian Labor Party.  Mr Denis  Murphy of the Department of History at the University of Queensland - a young scholar who has made a very close and valuable political study of the amalgamation of unions - delivered a very fine paper to a conference held by the Waterside Workers Federation in Brisbane on 27th February. He offered arguments in favour of the amalgamation of unions into larger unions. He pointed out that there are some very obvious advantages to be gained. So that his observations can be included in Hansard for honourable senators opposite and Democratic Labor Party senators to study, research and digest, I will state them. The advantages that this young scholar, and student of political science and authority on the amalgamation of unions saw are these: 
Provision of organisational and administrative services; 
Elimination of demarcation disputes; 
A reduction in time and cost through having one union negotiate with an employer or association of employers in an industry; 
Provision of research facilities which will become increasingly important as technological changes apply to industries and more international companies are formed; 
Provision of social facilities - holiday homes, clubs, credit unions, housing loans, libraries, union educational services, which union members will rightly demand from their union; 
A stronger, more closely knit industrial and political Labor movement; 
There is a major need for a national trade union college in Australia to provide union education. It is more likely to come from pressure from strong and significant trade unions. 
Another interesting situation arises from the Government's proposed interference - I say that it is interference - in the amalgamation of trade unions. Twenty years ago the International Labour Organisation constituted a Committee of Freedom of Association. The Committee was constituted to examine complaints received concerning alleged infringements of trade union rights. In the 20 years that it has been in existence it has had reason to consider 700 applications, lt has deliberated on 700 applications in those 20 years. In those deliberations it has been guided by the terms of Convention No. 98. which covers the human rights of individuals, and Convention No. 87, which was done in 1948. lt is Convention No. 87 in which we are mainly interested at this point of time. Contrary to what senators on the other side of the Senate have said, 1 have mentioned the trade union movement and I have related my arguments to the Bill. I suggest that they listen a little more intently and that now they have started listening they should get Hansard tomorrow and read my whole speech to see whether my argument has been developed in accordance with the Standing Orders of the Senate. 
The main theme of Convention No. 87 is the right to organise. This is the convention in which the Opposition is interested in relation to the Bill. Seventy-seven countries have ratified Convention 87. Among those countries is Australia. It is fair to submit that Australia must find itself in a very invidious position. On the one hand, it is a party to Convention No. 87 which protects the rights of the trade union movement to organise and to have freedom of expression and freedom of organisation. It is a signatory to Convention No. 87. On the other hand, today members of the Government that is a signatory  to  the Convention are trying, in a hypocritical manner, to steamroll through this chamber a Bill that does nothing but interfere with the rights of trade unions and their members. I wonder whether this is a breach of the conditions adopted by the International Labour Organisation and its Committee of Freedom of Association. Is the Government putting itself in conflict with the Organisation? ls it exposing itself to criticism or examination by the Organisation? The terms of the Convention are self-explanatory. They may be summarised as follows: 
In brief, Convention No. 87 guarantees to all workers and employers, without distinction whatsoever and without previous authorisation, the right to establish and join organisations of their own choosing; these organisations are to have the right to draw up their constitutions and rules, to elect their representatives in full freedom, to organise their administration and activities and to formulate their programmes, without interference by the public authorities; they may not be dissolved or suspended by administrative authority; they shall have the right to form federations and confederations, and to affiliate with international organisations of workers and employers; those rights also apply to federations and confederations; the acquisition of legal personality by organisations may not be made subject to conditions restricting the exercise of these rights; in exercising them workers and employers and their respective organisations must respect the law of the land, but in turn the law of the land may not be such as to impair, nor may it be so applied as to impair, the guarantees provided for in the Convention; the extent to which the guarantees provided for in the Convention shall apply to the armed forces and the police is to be determined by national laws or regulations. 
I will be very interested to hear how the Attorney-General, who is in charge of the passage of this Bill through the Senate, relates the present intentions of the Government in this Bill to the pledges it has given to the International Labour Organisation and how it relates its attitude to trade unions in this country to world wide opinion. 

 Senator Kane usually leans over and has something to say to me about where the Australian Council of Trade Unions stands on a particular issue and he has done so on this occasion. I think I should advise not only  Senator Kane  but also other honourable senators of where the ACTU stands on the amalgamation of unions. The inference of  Senator Kane's  remark was that the ACTU could be opposed, on some technical ground, to the amalgamation of unions. For the sake of the record, 1 think I should state just where the ACTU stands. I shall do so by quoting an ACTU executive decision relating to the Government's intention to legislate to prevent amalgamations. The decision was taken on 24th February 1972. It reads: 
The ACTU notes the attempt by the reactionary DLP and its counterparts in the Country Party and the Liberal Party to interfere in the internal affairs of the trade union movement, particularly in regard to the amalgamation of unions -  
We point out (hat amalgamation of unions has been in the objectives of the ACTU since the very inception of that body and that many unions in the intervening years have availed themselves of these provisions for the purpose of strengthening the trade union movement and providing a better service to members. 
Far from hindering amalgamation, we believe the Government has an obligation to assist the ACTU in building a strong responsible trade union movement in Australia. 
We also remind the Government of ils obligation to the 1LO and its numerous conventions, a number of which emphasise the right of unions to organise, the right of freedom of association. The recent Teheran Conference very clearly affirmed these principles. 
The ACTU has expressed its firm position regarding amalgamation in the following terms, namely - 
That provided appropriate safeguards in accordance with current Legislation are available to registered organisations, the amalgamated body should have automatic registration. 
The executive warns the Government that any legislation or administrative action intended to prevent amalgamation properly effected in accordance with the existing provisions of the legislation will be strongly resisted by the entire Australian trade union movement. 
The ACTU also determines that in addition to action on the Australian front, it will report the interference to the 1LO with a request that the 1LO special committee inquire into the interference by the Austraiian Government in the affairs of our workers' organisations - the employees trade unions. 
That should clear up for  Senator Kane  just where the Australian Council of Trade Unions stands in the matter. If he would like a copy of that document, I would be only too happy to provide him with one afterwards. 
Whenever the subject of conciliation and arbitration is raised attacks are levelled at the trade union movement by almost all sections of the community. I nearly cried last evening when I heard  Senator Carrick  say that there is no greater champion than he is of the rights of the genuine trade union leader. I did look hard at him and think about interjecting, but I decided to leave it to his own conscience. He might believe what he said but he certainly does not display that attitude in this chamber. He might in his heart feel that way but in his head he must think otherwise because his addresses in this chamber have not stamped him as being in any way a champion of the trade union movement. 
Despite the attacks which have been made on the trade union movement it has a history and a tradition that are unequalled by any other organisation. We hear much about strikes and industrial disputes but they represent only a small part of trade union activity. Unfortunately it is that part which receives the widest publicity. Every day trade union officials are engaged in widespread activities, including finding employment and fighting employment injustices, unjust wage payments, unjust sackings and victimisation. They are continually concerned in community affairs. Even the Government will admit that without the full co-operation and assistance of the trade union movement many of the committees it establishes would be unable to function without the support of the trade unions. 
The trade union movement cannot and will not accept restrictions on its right to involve itself in the political life of the community. I want to deal briefly with that point. In doing so I will be relating my remarks to this debate because the claim was made last night by  Senator Hannan  that the trade union movement has no right to interfere in the political life of this country. He quoted the  President  of the Queensland Trades and Labour Council,  Mr John  Egerton, as having said on the Australian Broadcasting Commission that he would resist any attempt to prevent the trade union movement from exercising its right as the representative of the organised workers to interfere in political issues.  Mr Egerton  is perfectly right; the trade union movement initiates the demands and the Australian Labor Party carries them out. Ever since the birth of the great Australian Labor Party, that has been the premise on which the industrial and political wings have functioned. The trade union movement initiates the demands and the Australian Labor Party, in government, carries them out. Improved working conditions, social services, health, education, housing and a host of other things are the concern of the trade unions as the organised strength of the lower and middle income groups. Surely they are political matters and surely no-one in this chamber, whether he be on my left or immediately in front of me, as are members of the Democratic Labor Party, would deny the right of the trade unions to intercede in these matters. 
At every opportunity attacks are levelled in this chamber and outside it at the trade union movement. The most recent attack was on the stand of the trade union movement on apartheid when the Springboks were here on a rugby union tour. Tt was attacked inside and outside this chamber on that occasion. I say to honourable senators opposite that history will prove that the trade union movement's stand on that matter was right, just as history has proved that the trade union movement's stand in opposing the shipment of pig iron to Japan was right; just as history has proved that the trade union movement's stand on independence for Indonesia was right; just as history has proved that the trade union movement's stand on the phoney war in Vietnam has been right. On all the great issues of our day history will continue to prove the trade union movement right. 
Challenges were thrown left and right by Government supporters last night at those honourable senators on this side of the chamber who are members of a trade union. I have been a member of a trade union all of my working life and I still am. While 1 am in the Senate I will continue to fight for and advance causes that will bring about greater harmony between the political and industrial wings of the great Labor movement. I feel it is in the interests of the nation and the people for roe to do so. I hope that this Bill will get the treatment it deserves and be thrown out by the Senate. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware that  Dr Reader  of the National Heart Foundation and  Dr Willee,  Director of Physical Education at the University of Melbourne, have declared that Australian over- 16-year- olds are less fit than their American counterparts who are considered to be the most unfit race of people in the world? Is he also aware that these gentlemen claim that this unfitness has produced a new illness, sufferers of which are said to be hypokinetic because they do so little exercise that they cannot keep their bodies functioning? What urgent action does the Minister propose to take to give greater emphasis to physical education in schools in view of these alarming claims? 
I want to proceed along the lines advanced by my Leader,  Senator Murphy,  a few moments ago and also in line with what I said during the second reading debate, that is, that amalgamations are not new. Amalgamations have been part of the labour movement ever since workers banded together to form trade unions. In my earlier speech I gave in chronological order the amalgamations that have been successfully brought about. The Government has not shown where any of these amalgmations have been disadvantageous or have prevented development in the nation or have not been in the nation's interest. While amalgamations have been part and parcel of trade union activity in the past they are even more so now because as a result of technological changes men in smaller unions are becoming redundant and those unions are finding it impossible financially to carry on. This is why there is an ever-increasing demand for amalgamation. It was pointed out also by previous speakers, and I subscribe to this view, that amalgamations do not harm the interest of the nation. They are regarded world as a desirable activity. 
Australia, along with 77 other nations, is a signatory to Convention 87 of the International Labour Organisation which governs the right of people to organise. Australia, a signatory to that convention, believes on the one hand in the freedom of people to organise themselves into organisations while on the other, through the clauses contained in this Bill, interferes in trade onion activity. I said previously that I sincerely believed that Australia is openly in conflict with what is subscribed to in the charter of that United Nations' Organisation and is leaving itself open to examination by the Committee for Freedom of Association, a part of that Organisation. I want to develop a point to show that this is the world-wide thinking on the right of trade unions to amalgamate. From 16th April to 19th May 1972 at Santiago, Chile, the third United Nations Conference on Trade and Development was held and statements at that conference were made by the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions. It made 2 pertinent statements which I think should be recorded in Hansard and to which I would like the Attorney-General to give attention. The first statement that it made was: 
The success or failure of the United Nations International Development Strategy, and therefore the future of millions of men, women and children in the developing countries, will depend on the decisions taken at UNCTAD III and, even more important, on what governments do thereafter. There is no shortage of pious statements; what the world now needs is action, 
In a moment I will name the document from which I am quoting. The second pertinent statement - it was the Confederation's fifth statement - was: 
It is certainly an, illusion to think that restrictions on the right of working people to organise themselves in trade unions can in some way make development easier to obtain. It should be self evident that such restrictions are not  a  step towards a more developed society in its fullest sense, but a step back. In fact, restricting the right of working people to participate in the development of their countries is much more likely to produce negative than positive reactions. Without a free and active trade union movement, governments will find it harder, not easier, to gain the acceptance by working people of the short term sacrifices which longer term progress may require. 
Earlier the Attorney-General asked the name of the document from which I am quoting. I am quoting from a document of the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions. It was a statement made to the Third United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. The Confederation is a very responsible, world wide recognised organisation. I think that it gave very sound advice to that important United Nations conference. I think that the trouble with the Government today is that it should do some homework and brush up on what is the thinking on a world wide basis with regard to trade union activities. If the Government did what I suggest it would not be architecting the restrictive legislation that it is introducing into this Parliament. I submit, for the consideration of the Attorney-General and Government senators, that Australia is out of step and out of line with its thinking on restrictive practices on trade unions. The Government should look at what is happening in other countries and should bring its thinking up to date. I was shocked to see this restrictive legislation introduced. I am not a lawyer. I am putting a layman's interpretation and evaluation upon it. That is what other people will do. Whether the legislation is retrospective or not retrospective, as claimed by the Attorney-General, he is out of step with the Minister for Labour and National Service,  Mr Lynch,  who, when introducing the legislation in the other place,is recorded at page 2477 of Hansard as having had this to say- 
That was on 11th May 1972. 

 - Mr Lynch, the Minister for Labour and National Service. He said: 
I also want to make clearthe Government's intention on clauses 51 and 68 of the Bill which relate to the amalgamation of organisations. Clause 68 deals with the operation of that new part in relation to an amalgamation and as to certain applications which have already been made to the Registrar. It is proposed by clause 2 of the Bill that those 2 clauses shall come into operation on such respective dates as are fixed by proclamation. I now make it known to the House that it is the Government's intention to proclaim clauses 51 and 68 as soon as this can be possibly carried out after the Bill receives royal assent. The matter will be handled with the greatest possible expedition. We have decided on this course because of the importance that we attach to the coming into operation of the new Part VIIIA. 
They are the sentiments and expression of opinion of the Minister in the House of Representatives, the Minister who is the architect of the Bill. Yet the Minister who is steering the Bill through the Senate told us that the clause is to act retrospectively to 26th May. That is not the thinking of the Minister in the other place. I quoted what he said, as recorded at page 2477  of  the Hansard of 11th May 1972. Before I resume my seat I inform honourable senators opposite and the Government that I am shocked and disgusted at the trend that they are following in regard to the collision course that they seem to be wanting to take with the great trade union movement. 1 appeal to them to pause, look at the sentiments expressed by the Committee of Freedom of Association of the International Labour Organisation and to think over the statements that I have made today that were advanced to the important Third United Nations Conference on Trade and Development held at Santiago, Chile, from 13th April to 19th May. I refer to the statements made by the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions. If the Government does  a  little homework on that and absorbs the sentiments contained in that,  it  will accept the advice of the Opposition and have another look at the amendment. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service aware that the Hotel Kurrajong was sited and planned for accommodation for members of Parliament? ls it also a fact that the standard of accommodation and service is such that most members have left and found other accommodation? In view of the serious losses and apparent decline in management efficiency, will the Minister immediately obtain the services of a competent firm of consultants or a consultant fully experienced in management in the hotel industry to investigate thoroughly and recommend changes in management and procedures? Will the Minister also delay implementing the proposed changes in tariff and service at the Hotel Kurrajong already advertised by Commonwealth Hostels Ltd until such time as the report of the consultants is presented? 
I am prompted to crave the indulgence of the Senate this evening by the situation that has developed at the Hotel Kurrajong. The Senate will recall that some 45 years ago, when the Federal Parliament was moved to Canberra, the Hotel Kurrajong was sited and planned to provide accommodation for parliamentarians and their secretarial staff. One hundred rooms were set aside to provide accommodation for parliamentarians and their secretarial staff and 60 rooms were set aside for other public servants. The hotel was situated on probably the most choice piece of land, in terms of real estate in Canberra, with the exception of the site on which the present Parliament House stands. The site was surrounded by beautiful gardens, was within walking distance of Parliament House and had all the prerequisites to make it the ideal site on which to erect an accommodation house. 
What is the position today? More than half of the members of the Parliament have left the Hotel Kurrajong and have sought accommodation elsewhere. Many members of their secretarial staff have followed the same course. So serious has the financial position of the Hotel Kurrajong become that in the months of June and July a survey of the financial position was made by the management of the hotel. As a result of that investigation, some stringent reviews of tariff procedures and accommodation arrangements were made. 
Firstly, on 14th June, people accommodated at the Hotel Kurrajong were told that the hotel premises would be closed temporarily, during the parliamentary recess from 24th June 1972 to 13th August 1972. This action was brought about, it was said, because of a decrease in demand for short term accommodation in the Australian Capital Territory during this period, which would result in a loss that could not be justified in the circumstances. Coming swiftly on top of this circular was another circular that was issued on 26th July which said that the decision had now been taken to place the Hotel Kurrajong on a bed and breakfast basis after the Budget session. People who wished to stay at the Hotel Kurrajong could do so on a bed and breakfast accommodation basis from Monday to Friday but if they wished to stay in Canberra over the weekend they had the choice of going to alternative accommodation controlled by Commonwealth Hostels Ltd at Brassey House. It was said also that it had been found necessary to increase the tariff at the Hotel Kurrajong and that new tariffs would apply from 13th August 1972. The new rate for a single room with private shower and toilet would be $9 a day. 
True, and I intend to speak of motel rates and draw  a  comparison with accommodation rates at the playground of Australia - the Gold Coast, an area I know something about. Single rate rooms are available at $8.05 and double rate rooms with individual showers and toilets at $7.25. There has been no change in that sphere. But I would ask honourable senators to remember that the single rate on a bed and breakfast basis is $9  a  day. 
A circular was attached to the letter giving a brief history of the establishment of the Kurrajong Hotel, the reason it was established and the reasons advanced by management for introducing these econo mies. The circular states among other things that when Parliament is in session, honourable members and honourable senators make use of the Kurrajong Hotel for only 3 days of the week, and that Parliament sits for only 3 weeks out of 4 and for only 8 months out of the 12. That in itself seems to be reasonable, but what has it to do with the overall management? Surely to God for the other 4 months and for week-ends when members of Parliament do not require accommodation at the Kurrajong Hotel, the management could be in competition with every other accommodation house in this area, seeking to attract the tourist trade which is so important to the A.C.T. The circular went on to explain that many new hotels and motels which provide twin and family suites have been opened in Canberra in the last 5 years. These modern hotels and motels feature licensed restaurants and compete stongly for the casual and tourist trade in Canberra. The 100 rooms at the Kurrajong Hotel which are reserved for members during Parliamentary sessions may only be used by public servants as transient accommodation when Parliament is in recess. Because the Kurrajong Hotel has provided full accommodation with meal service for some guests, its staffing, including weekend staff who are paid penalty" rates, has created a high cost factor. In fact, the Hotel Kurrajong's staffing arrangements have been less flexible and more costly than those of the independently operated motels at which, in general, breakfast is served only in bedrooms. 
The Kurrajong Hotel was designed and built about 45 years ago; it is labourexpensive in its service and cleaning operations, in maintenance - notably painting and. carpet replacement - and in grounds maintenance. What an admission from management. Having been built .45 years ago it is unable to compete with modern hotel and motel accommodation that has been established in Canberra in the last 5 years. This is the point I want to develop. I have not risen in my place -to denigrate the management of the Kurrajong Hotei or to make a personal attack on anybody. But I am interested in the Hotel Kurrajong. I had the pleasure of staying there for the first time in 1949 when I visited Canberra as campaign director for the late George 
Lawson, who became the member for Brisbane. I must say that at that time the accommodation was first class and the surroundings had an atmosphere in which it was pleasant to stay. However, the Hotel Kurrajong has deteriorated over the list 25 years because no-one has moved with the times. True, there is more new hotel accommodation in Canberra, and true there is now new motel accommodation, and true those new motels include licensed restaurants. But why has the Kurrajong Hotel stood still while others have marched forward? The reason is lack of management. If T had a legal problem, I would consult a lawyer to represent me, not a painter or a plumber. If I were ill, I would consult a physician. Therefore, if I wanted a first class accommodation house befitting the capital of Australia in the plush and choice surroundings in which it is situated, I would consult someone experienced in hotel management. I believe that all the shortcomings of the Hotel Kurrajong can be corrected. There is no point in adopting the attitude of a prophet of gloom and saying: We cannot compete with the other places, for they have upgraded accommodation and facilities, they have licensed restaurants with carpeted floors and self-contained rooms'. We must move with the times. We have shown by the buildings that we have constructed in the A.C.T., replete with the aesthetic beauty and surroundings, including the approaches to Parliament House, that we have the know-how to achieve these improvements - and surely we have the money. 
I recall that when I became a member of Parliament I remarked to the  President  on the magnificence of Canberra and the wonder of its surroundings. Indeed, I believed he thought I was going to talk at length about the beauties of Canberra, a subject which he, because of his position, would have heard many times before. The President's reply to me was:  'Senator, the  nearer the bakehouse the better the bread'. That is how it should be for the Kurrajong Hotel. There should be no lack of money. It is a choice piece of real estate in close proximity to Parliament House. I repeat that that site is as good as the site on which Parliament House is situated. Why has the Kurrajong Hotel become a kind of institute rather than a hotel? 
It is a mausoleum. It is like Lloyds of London; the floors creak and it is cold and lacks animation. In fact, it lacks management. 
I do not live there, and I am not speaking about those who do. I am speaking about the management and what is before us at the Kurrajong Hotel. 
It will be- and you will be buried there. This is the attitude that is taken to the Kurrajong, and surely something must be done about it. I was about to say when I was interrupted that if the Hotel Kurrajong was located in any part of Australia other than the A.C.T., any State licensing commission would have come down heavily on it years ago with a requisition that improvements be made. This hotel would not be tolerated by the licensing commission of any State of the Commonwealth, so why should it be tolerated in the A.C.T.? It is all right for a member to stand up and criticize it or to attack its management, which is obviously inefficient, for It is controlled by people who lack expertise in this field. But there is no point in simply talking, therefore I offer this suggestion sincerely, and I hope, helpfully to the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  from one who has had 12 years accommodation experience in the hotel industry on the Gold Coast of Queensland. 
The Kirrabelle Hotel at Coolangatta. 
It is run by first rate people. The charges at the Kurrajong Hotel are high enough, so you cannot blame them for the serious losses that are being incurred. In fact, the bed and breakfast rate at the Kurrajong is S9 a day. One can get bed and breakfast accommodation for $9 a day at Surfers Paradise in a high rise unit building of international standard built within the last 12 months - and those running those establishments are making a financial success of the accommodation industry on the Gold Coast. If such accommodation can be offered at the Gold Coast and in every other State of the Commonwealth by people in the hotel industry, surely it can be done at the Kurrajong Hotel. 
I suggest to the Minister that he give very serious consideration to calling in immediately a firm of consultants experienced in the hotel industry to suggest management methods and procedures which ought to be introduced at the Kurrajong Hotel; and if necessary that the Hotel be refurnished, indeed that the whole layout be redesigned and upgraded to modern standards. It is no good our sitting here and saying that the present management or certain officers of the Department of the Interior or officers of the Department of Labour and National Service are experts. They may be experts in their own fields, but hotel accommodation is today a specialised field and a highly competitive one, and if the Hotel Kurrajong's management does not move with the times and continually review the accommodation and facilities offered at the Hotel, they will be left behind. I remember when new ideas for hotels such as the carpeting of the public bar areas were introduced. Everybody said how ridiculous it was when it was decided to introduce decor and to refurnish the hotels. I invite honourable senators to compare the conditions in hotels today with those that obtained 10 years ago. The encouraging thing about it all is that the result has been increased financial returns. 
And also on the accommodation side. I suggest that  Senator Gair  stick to the subject of his overseas tours and leave the subject of hotel management to me. If he listens, I may be able to teach him something. At one time he sought my opinion on correct hotel management. I do not know what I have done to him recently because he does not want my opinion now. At one time he used to seek my advice. However, I will not hold it against him. I will continue to help him because I am  a  helper. I will be able to tell the honourable senator anything he wants to know about hotels, except about drinking the products. 
It is not what you did that matters; it is what you do now. I suggest that  Senator Gair  should keep calm. What I am suggesting is simple enough. It calls only for the application of knowhow that the hotel industry has today. I suggest that without delay the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  who is now at the table, seek to persuade the Minister for Labour and National Service to act on the Hotel Kurrajong. It is a landmark in this city and it should not be allowed to deteriorate and to go backwards. If that happens it will go on to the open market to be bought by someone with uncanny anticipation in buying run down accommodation places and building them up into flourishing high rise developments. People like Reg Ansett might want to buy it. Do not let this happen. The Hotel Kurrajong is a valuable piece of real estate. It is nicely positioned. I suggest in my humble and modest way that if consultants who are experts on the hotel industry are engaged to advise on the management and on whatever should be done with the Hotel Kurrajong, in 5 years' time we will be able to look back with pride because a run down institution will have been transformed into a flourishing accommodation house in this capital city. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that Americans are buying professional kangaroo shooters' licences in Australia? Is it also a fact that salted kangaroo skins are being exported in quantity direct to the United States of America and that this practice has resulted in economic hardship to Australian tanneries and to the Australian souvenir industry? Is it a fact also that the United States has prohibited the killing of most of its furred animals and that the most plentiful source of supply of fur in the world today is the kangaroo? Will the Minister investigate these claims, more particularly as the only government revenue received from the United States trading in skins is the shooter's licence fee? Will the Minister also confer with his colleague, the Minister for Immigration, to examine closely applications for entry to Australia from overseas people applying for professional shooters' licences to ensure that they have no connection with organised criminal activity in the United States of America? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Is the Minister aware that the ship building industry is claiming that unless the Government's policy on ship building is drastically altered it will destroy, first, Australia's capacity to build large ships and eventually the entire ship building industry? Is the Minister also aware that Evans Deakin, Brisbane, was low bidder on a tanker in December 1971 and a competitive bidder on a tanker in March 1972 in which overseas owners Caltex and Shell were involved? Is the Minister also aware that Caltex and Shell withheld the orders due to uncanny anticipation of radical changes to the Government's ship building policy and are now likely to call tenders overseas? Will the Minister assure the Senate that he will do all in his power to prevent any run down in the ship building industry and protect the jobs of thousands of Australians? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Has the Government refused to make credit available for ship construction as is done by the majority of other maritime nations? Is it a fact that Japanese shipyards offer credit for an 8-year period at 5.5 per cent interest and that similar arrangements can be made in Spain, Sweden, the Philippines, France, Denmark, Italy and Germany? Is he aware that the Evans Deakin Brisbane shipyard had an inquiry from Yugoslav shipowners for the construction of 6 bulk carriers and 2 large tankers but was unable to tender because the owners required 80 per cent credit at 6.75 per cent interest? Will the Minister investigate the position and advise what action he proposes to take to enable Australian shipbuilders to compete against foreign shipyards that have that facility and thus orotect the jobs of thousands of Australians? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. By way of preface I point out that the Department of Social Services issues pensioners with hearing aid units, calaids/ E type, at a rental of $10. Is it a fact that batteries for these units cost pensioners $2.60 for a set of 6 which last 480 hours, whereas 6 batteries for other privately purchased units cost 40c less and last 50 per cent longer? Will the Minister consider issuing units which use the more economically priced batteries or, better still, put batteries used for this purpose on the free list? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Does a section of the Tariff Board report on shipbuilding lay the burden of national defence on a few small yards capable of producing only small ships such as minesweepers, patrol vessels and landing barges? Has the Government accepted this section of the report? If so, is this a clue to the Government's intention not to encourage the building of large ships? What steps does the Minister propose to take to protect the jobs of thousands of skilled labourers and millions of dollars annually if such a policy is not drastically altered? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Minister aware that 100 butchers in Brisbane have closed their shops or gone broke in the last 3 years? Is the Minister aware also that a Commonwealth survey published on 8th August 1972 showed that meat was dearer in Brisbane than in any other capital city and that soon people will be unable to afford meat? Does the Minister agree that the situation in Queensland is an extraordinary one for the beef State of Australia with in excess of 10 million head of cattle? Will he urgently consider establishing a stabilisation committee for the meat industry to protect Australian consumers and the meat retail trade? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Is it a fact that 41 ships now trading on the Australian coast are under provisional replacement and that some of these vessels have been operating for 8 years, which is far beyond the normal period of replacement? If so, will the Minister tell the Senate why the necessary controls have not been applied and what action he proposes to take to see that they are applied in future? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities. Is it a fact that some 8,000 international hotel and motel rooms foreshadowed in the  last few years for the eastern State capitals, half are now classified as having been cancelled or likely to be cancelled? Will such action have a disastrous effect on our capacity to cope with Australia's growing influx of overseas tourists? Will the Minister make a declaration of intent in regard to Government assistance for the building of major city hotels in reply to repeated requests by all sections of the tourist industry to do so? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Are companies with no shipyard facility but capable of fabricating specialised drilling rigs eligible for Commonwealth subsidy for shipbuilding? If so, will the Minister see what he can do to correct the situation which places yards with heavy shipyard investment at a disadvantage when tendering against companies without this facility? Finally, will the Minister define the term 'shipbuilder' used in the Act relating to subsidy for shipbuilding so as to clear up misunderstanding in the industry? 
My question is addressed to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate. In relation to the Government's belated announcement of an inquiry into poverty, is it a fact that Professor Henderson said today on the AM' programme on Australian Broadcasting Commission radio that he would be unable to make any interim report before Christmas? If recommendations cannot be made before the election, what guarantee have the people of Australia that the recommendations by Professor Henderson will be carried out? Will the Government give a firm assurance now that the recommendations made by Professor Henderson will be implemented, and that this long-needed inquiry will not be used as an election gimmick by a desperate government on the eve of dismissal? 
 My question is directed to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate. I understand from the answer the Minister gave to my earlier question about the inquiry into poverty that he believes that no report can be expected until after the election. Will the Minister explain how the Prime Minister was able to say on the 'AM' programme this morning that an interim report on the basic issues of poverty was expected before the election? Is the Minister revealing to the Senate that the Prime Minister has been misleading the Australian public in relation to the timing of the release of the interim report by Professor Henderson? 
From the Opposition's point of view this is obviously an election Budget. The first thing to which I invite the attention of the Senate is that on this occasion, for the first time for many years, the Government has budgeted for a deficit - in this instance, a deficit of about $630m. On previous occasions the Government has budgeted for a domestic surplus. In 1969- 70 the Government budgeted for a domestic surplus of $5 18m and in 1970-71 it budgeted for a domestic surplus of $458m. In 1971-72, when we saw the most disastrous Budget of all, it budgeted for an estimated domestic surplus of more than $600m. We all know, and Government supporters know it only too well, that halfway through the financial year the Government panicked, pressed all emergency buttons and called 'Action stations' to grant concessions which finally enabled it to budget for a domestic surplus in the vicinity of $387m. That brings us to the present. We now have an all' time record high of $630m as an estimated deficit. 
Another interesting aspect to which I invite honourable senators' attention is that in 1969-70, when the Government budgeted for a domestic surplus the unemployment figure in Australia stood at 49,000. At the time of the 1972-73 Budget the unemployment figure stands at close to 100,000. This is an increase of over 100 per cent in unemployment during the lifetime of this Parliament. This is the record of our present Government. In the lifetime of this Parliament unemployment has increased 100 per cent from 49,000 in 1969 to approximately 100,000 today. We on this side of the chamber and the members who occupy the Opposition benches in the other place know only too well that the only device that the Government has for explaining the situation is to blame the wicked trade unions. On every hand, whether in reference to inflation, spiralling prices, unemployment or any other ill from which the economy is suffering, we hear the cry from the Government, in a monotonous repetition, that these things have been caused by the wicked trade unions through their persuasion for increased wages. If the trade unions are not being blamed it is suggested that high wage increases are the cause. As late as last week the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  was supported in the other place by the Minister for Supply and Minister assisting the Treasurer (Mr Garland) who said, as recorded at page 532 of Hansard:   . . it is time, too, for the trade union movement to play its part by recognising the need for a moratorium on wage increases and restraint or even opposition to excessive wage rises as a matter of its policy. 
I did not thinkI would ever live to see the day when a responsible Minister of the Crown in the national Parliament would make such a ludicrous statement as to appeal to the trade union movement to throw overboard one of its main objectives, that is, to seek wage increases for the workers that the unions represent. Yet that was the tone of the defence put forward by Government supporters in the other place. The same defence was taken up in this place last night when  Senator Maunsell,  time and again, blamed high wages for the unemployment position in Australia. He was echoing the view which had been expressed by the Country Party and by other supporters of the Liberal and Country Party coalition Government. I accept the challenge offered last night by  Senator Maunsell  and claim that higher wages are not the cause of unemployment. I make the claim specifically that higher wages are not the cause of unemployment. 
To support what I say I propose to quote the remarks of an accepted authority,  Mr Victor  Feather, General Secretary of the British Trades Union Congress, who did research and carried out a survey on this subject. He unearthed figures which substantiate the claim that I have just made that higher wages are not the cause of unemployment. Allow me to relate some of the factors that were unearthed by his research In respect of the most recent financial year. In Germany wages increased by 12.1 per cent but unemployment went down by 2.8 per cent. In Japan wages went up by 17,9 per cent but unemployment went down by 2.8 per cent. In Italy wages went up 22.6 per cent but unemployment went down 2.2 per cent. In Denmark wages went up 9.8 per cent and unemployment went down 22.6 per cent. In Belgium wages went up 11.2 per cent and unemployment went down 9.1 per cent. In the Netherlands wages went up 12.3 per cent but unemployment went down 9.8 per cent. The point I am making is that in those 6 major developed countries there was a significant upward movement in wages but an equally significant downward trend in unemployment. 
It was 1970-71. Those figures prove quite conclusively to all who are prepared to accept the situation and who apply commonsense to it that high wages are not the cause of unemployment. Let us consider another comparable country - Great Britain. In Great Britain wages went up 14.7 per cent, but unemployment also went up 5.6 per cent. This illustrates the point that I have been making. The reason for the situation in Great Britain being different from the pattern that I have shown for the other 6 nations must obviously be something other than high wages. Research into this situation has shown conclusively that the rate of growth in Great Britain is much lower than it is in the other 6 countries that I named. Therefore the conclusion is that a low growth rate rather than high wages is the cause of unemployment. 
Let us come closer to home and consider the situation in Australia. Recent statistics show that wage increases in Australia have been in the vicinity of 10 per cent and that unemployment has increased by 0.6 per cent. In 2 countries only of the 8 I have named where wages have increased significantly has there been an increase in the unemployment figures. Those countries are Britain and Australia. I have pointed out previously that in Britain the growth rate is lower than it is in the other 6 developed countries. What is the position in Australia? I do not need to tell honourable senators opposite, nor do I need to tell honourable senators on this side of the chamber, that the growth rate in Australia is a miserable 3 per cent - the lowest that it has been for many years.. Australia has been accustomed to experiencing and enjoying a growth rate of 5 per cent. It is many years since it has been the miserably low figure of 3 per cent. It must be obvious to all now that no-one but the Government is to blame for the unemployment situation. The Government has failed to wage war on unemployment. It has failed to plan; it has failed to communicate with either the Parliament or the electorate; it has failed to restore confidence in the community; it has failed to restore confidence in the economy. Is it any wonder that we of the Opposition are forced to move an amendment in this Budget debate? The amendment is warranted and justified and will be enthusiastically supported by all honourable senators on the Opposition side. I read the amendment:   . . 'the Senate condemns the Budget because it fails to define adequate economic and social goals for Australia; and in particular because it provides no programming for restoring full employment, no means of checking the costs, the prices of goods and land, no framework for improving the standards of education, health, welfare and public transport and no national plan for our capita] cities and regional centres'. 
I claim that the Government has deliberately held back output. It has deliberately restricted the volume of goods which the country could produce. This restriction makes everything more expensive than it ought to be. This restriction forces up costs which in turn force up prices and culminates in what economists call today cost inflation. I submit all that I have said to the Government for its earnest consideration. 1 hope it will stimulate some interest and that the Government will cease to blame the wicked trade unions and increasing wages for the unemployment position that exists in Australia today. The unemployment position exists as a result of lack of planning by the Government and failure to correct the ills that plague the economy. 
The second point I would like to pass to is the failure of the Government to do anything for the tourist industry by providing assistance through the Budget. Firstly, I accept the challenge issued many times last evening by  Senator Sim  to  Senator Poke.  I do not know what the significance of that challenge was but  Senator Sim  continued to ask: 'When will somebody on the Labor side tell me the definition of a worker?' He continually interjected while  Senator Poke  was speaking with the request: 'Is there anybody on the Labor side who can tell me the definition of a worker?' I am not a walking Webster's dictionary but I can tell  Senator Sim  that a worker is a person who works with his brains or works with his hands. A worker may belong to any political party. If that is the definition  Senator Sim  is looking for, I repeat it - a worker is a person who works with his brains or works with his hands. 
Reverting to the question of tourism, I recall that recently the Queensland Minister for Tourism, the  Hon.  John Herbert, forecast that by 1980 the tourist industry would rival the mining industry in Queensland as the major industry in that State. As a senator from Queensland I naturally have a vested interest in the welfare of that State and in the welfare of the people of that State. I believe that I can justifiably claim in this chamber that Queensland is the leading tourist State in the Commonwealth, possessing among other attractions the Great Barrier Reef and a 23-mile stretch of beach on the Gold Coast. I do not think anybody would challenge my statement that the Gold Coast is the tourist capital of Australia and indeed the tourist capital of the Southern Hemisphere. The point I am particularly interested in emphasising this evening arises from the very pertinent statement by the Queensland Minister for Tourism that by 1980 the tourist industry will be the major industry in Queensland.  His  optimism is shared by the Australian Tourist Commission. In its annual report for 1971-72 the Commission revealed that 416,000 overseas tourists entered Australia during that period and earned for Australia in foreign exchange $135m. The Commission predicts that by 1980 the number of overseas visitors entering Australia will be 1.7 million and that they will earn in foreign exchange for Australia $574m. 
These figures show the importance of tourism and the vast expansion of the tourist industry in Australia. These are very exciting predictions by both the Queensland Minister for Tourism and the Australian Tourist Commission. But unless we are geared to meet this rapid increase in the number of overseas tourists who will enter this country, we shall miss out. Planning, research and surveys must be applied to this question. The Accommodation Owners Association has forecast that if the tourist industry in Australia is to cope with the expected 1.7 million overseas visitors in 1980, we will require 37,594 rooms of international standard. At present capital cities in the eastern States can provide 13,413 rooms of international standard. A quick lesson in mathematics will show that to increase room availability from 13,413 to 37,594 requires an increase of 180 per cent in the 10 years ahead or, to calculate it in another way, an increase of 18 per cent a year. One would think that a country which is going through such development as Australia is could cope easily with this increase. Under normal circumstances, we could do so. But the frightening facts are that accommodation owners and developers who intended previously to construct hotels and motels of international standard have recently announced that it would not be economic or profitable for them to go ahead with such constructions. Indeed, they have announced that 4,000 of the 8,000 international standard hotel and motel rooms which were on the drawing board in preparation for construction have been cancelled, and that the other 4,000 are in the process of being cancelled. These cancellations have been brought about by an economic situation. If this accommodation is not to be available in Australia to house the tourists, they will go elsewhere. Therefore, if the forecast by the Queensland Minister for Tourism is correct and if the forecast by the Australian Tourist Commission is correct - that the tourist industry will be a major industry in this country in the next decade - this Government will stand condemned if it fails to give financial assistance to accommodation owners in tourist areas so that they may continue with developmental building. 
I suggest, to the Government that there are 3 ways by which it can give assistance to the tourist industry. The Government's acceptance of any one of the 3 would be helpful, but I think it would be better still if it gave consideration to all 3. The first proposition that I submit to the Government for consideration is that it should grant special assistance by way of a subsidy to local government authorities which provide tourist facilities and amenities so that the costs of those facilities and amenities are not borne fully by local ratepayers. The second proposition is that the Government should allow depreciation on new buildings, and the cost of maintenance and renovation of buildings as tax deductions. Such deductions are allowed to accommodation owners in tourist areas in other countries, particularly the Pacific Ocean countries - our strongest competitors. 
The third suggestion which I offer is that the Government establish a tourist development loan fund similar to that operating in New Zealand. The Government has been able to do this with other industries but it has fallen short of doing anything to assist the tourist industry. Yet the tourist industry is in the top bracket of the major industries of this country. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  gave figures in the Budget which was presented in the Parliament last week in relation to Commonwealth assistance and payments to industry. These figures show that rural industries received $233m; the manufacturing industries $121m; the mining industry $12m; and the transport industry $2m; making a total of $368m. These figures do not include assistance through taxation concessions. If I had time to research and add the taxation concessions to the $368m we would find that the figure would be nearer $500m. What is the reason for the Government continuing to refuse to give any financial assistance to an industry so important as the tourist industry? 
I live on the Gold Coast. I have taken part in representations which have been made to many tourism Ministers. There have been many changes since 1967. I exclude the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  from having made any assurance that he would give assistance because I do not recall representations being made to him in this area during the time when he was Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities. I recall the visits that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  have made to the Gold Coast. They have all said that they have been impressed by representations from tourist authorities. They have all promised that they would go back to Canberra and place for the consideration of Cabinet financial assistance to the tourist industry. But possibly the strongest and the most persuasive in his interest was the  Deputy  Prime Minister who in this Parliament represents Richmond the neighbouring electorate to McPherson. Campaigning in support of the endorsed Australian Country Party candidate for McPherson,  Mr Richter,  the  Deputy  Prime Minister said that he was impressed and that he was convinced of the need for financial assistance to the tourist industry, particularly depreciation being allowed as a taxation concession. He said that he would go back to Canberra and that he hoped that in the Budget some concession would be given to the tourist industry. But of course the Budget has come and gone and there is nothing that substantiates the promise made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister. 
In view of the millions of dollars that have been allocated for assistance to other industries I am sincerely at a loss as to why the Government repeatedly refuses to assist the tourist industry. I have probed and looked everywhere for a reason why. The nearest approach to a reason that I can come up with is a report that appeared in the 'Daily Telegraph' of 30th January 1972. Reporting on the tourist industry and the failure of the Government to give assistance the article states: 
These remarks are from the International Tourism Quarterly, published by. the Economist Intelligence Unit. 
They follow an Economist survey of the Australian and New Zealand tourist industries. 
Significantly, the report says New Zealand is not likely to miss the opportunities, as it seems much better prepared than Australia for a big influx of tourists. 
The remarks caught the eye of  Mr Alan  Greenway, the energetic motel businessman who is  chairman  of the Federal Government's Australian Tourist Commission. 
In a brief Press statement last week he said Australian travel industry leaders had been expressing the same sentiments for sometime. 
He said the commission believed the kind of tourist development needed here would not be automatic 'but must be made to happen'. 
BENEFITS 

 Mr Greenway said he hoped for a positive response from the Federal Government to proposals io encourage tourist development here. 
This week  Mr Greenway  expanded his views by, saying the Australian tourist industry had fallen behind in the race to be internationally competitive. 
Just what IS wrong with our lon l ist industry? 
In a word, travel authorities say, it's politics. 
They say the tourist industry is suffering because of political trading between Country and Liberal Parties. 
Another prominent industry spokesman said: The trouble is that  Mr Howson,  who handles tourist activities, is only an Assistant Minister to the Trade Department. 
Any important decision of his has to be approved by the Trade Minister,  Mr Anthony'. 
NEGLECTED 

 Mr Anthony cannot successfully wear 2 ministerial hats, and when the money is being handed out the rural industry gets first crack. la the trading that goes on between the Country and Liberal Parties,  Mr Anthony  can only win so many, battles and so far tourism is being neglected'. 
Australia is losing tourists to neighboring countries. Because of our poor facilities they are cutting short holidays here to spend more lime in places like New Zealand and Fiji. 
That is the nearest 1 have had to an explanation as to why, over a period of years despite numerous representations, this Government has continually refused to give financial assistance to the tourist industry which all the experts, including those from government departments, claim will become within the next decade one of the major industries in this country. This evening I was prompted to speak on those 2 points only because I feci that the more practical issues such as social services that are contained in the Budget have been adequately canvassed by honourable senators from this side of the chamber. No doubt these matters will be further progressed by speakers who are to follow mc. I feel that in our contribution  we  have given an effective answer to the continual blaming of the trade unions and high wages for the cause of unemployment. That is the only  device that has been used by the Government to put the blame on someone else. Under this Government, since 1969-70, we have seen unemployment increase from 49.000 to almost 100,000 at the present time - an increase of 100 per cent. The Government has been inactive. It has been unable to cope with the situation, yet in this chamber and in the other place it has kept up a continual attack, blaming the trade unions, wages and everything connected with the working class. I feel that we have proved to the Government that the blame rests at its own feet. I hope that it will do the right thing and correct the position. If it does nol want to do that I suggest that it move out and make way for an alternative Labor government that will be able to handle the affairs of this country. 
Sitting suspended from 5.39 to 8 p.m. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Is it true that there is every prospect of a major upsurge in the appearance of imported ships on the Australian coast now that approvals to import new ships will be freely given and the non-preferential tariff on them removed? Is it true also that the public-owned Australian National Line is giving orders to a foreign yard at a time when Australian yards are facing a critical shortage of orders? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Does  a  section of the Tariff Board Report on Shipbuilding  lay  the burden of national defence on a few small yards capable only of producing small ships such as minesweepers, patrol vessels and landing barges. 
Has the Government accepted this section of the Report; if so, is it the Government's intention not to encourage the building of larger ships. 
What steps does the Minister propose to take to protect the jobs of thousands of skilled labourers and the millions of dollars which will be lost to the economy if such a policy is not drastically altered. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. It concerns the price cutting war going on between chemists and supermarkets over pain killers. Firstly, is it a fact that since pain killers have been freely available in supermarkets, corner stores, hotels and other retail outlets sales have reached the staggering amount of $13m a year? Secondly, what action does the Government propose to take to restrict the sale of pain killers in the light of professional advice that these drugs cause a frightening number of kidney breakdowns? Finally, when can the Parliament expect to receive the report of the National Health and Medical Research Council on the chemists' submissions on these matters? 
I  understand that there is other business to be dealt with, so  I  seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Health. When can the Senate expect to receive the contents of a survey on the fitness of Australian school children conducted by  Dr A.  W. Willee, a draft of which was completed in June 1971? Is the cause of the delay due to one of the conclusions having upset Health officials because it shows that Australian school children are among the most unfit in the world? Does the Minister consider that the Commonwealth National Fitness Act of 1941, introduced as a wartime measure, is equally appropriate in the vastly different circumstances of the 1970s? Will he consider modifying the Act to allow specialist groups to be represented on the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport aware that the percentage of Australia's ocean trade carried in Australian flag vessels is the lowest of any major trading nation? Is the Minister concerned with this situation? Does he agree that a subsidy for export vessels would assist the development of Australian flag fleets in international trade? 
1 take the opportunity provided by the motion for the first reading of the Income Tax Bill 1972 to discuss 2 matters which are causing concern and which I think require urgent attention. The first relates to the shipbuilding industry in Australia and the second is the lack of planning for physical fitness, recreation and sport. During the winter recess of this Parliament the Government announced a drastic change in its policy on shipbuilding. That change of policy has been received with concern and alarm by the shipbuilding industry throughout Australia: so much so that if the representations that the industry is making to the Government are not successful it feels that the implications are so serious as to mean, firstly, the death knell of the building of big ships in Australia and, secondly, the elimination of the shipbuilding industry in this country. For me, as a senator, that first prospect is serious enough because of the effect it will have on this industry and on the economy. But, as a senator from Queensland, I am doubly concerned because the industry is of the opinion that if this change of policy is allowed to go unbridled the first State to be affected will be Queensland. 
I do not need to remind honourable senators that the Kangaroo Point yard in Brisbane, the yard owned by Evans Deakin Industries Ltd, is the second largest ship building yard in Australia, one roundly acclaimed by the industry as being the most modern in this country. It is the largest employer of skilled labour in Queensland. It employs 900 artisans and a further 300 or 400 people are employed in companion jobs. Therefore it can bc seen that, if the Government is not prepared to move and correct its latest policy decision, this industry in Queensland will be affected. Not only will there be serious consequences to the company, but there must be serious consequences to Brisbane and to Queensland. As I said, that yard is the largest employer of skilled labour in Queensland. In addition, it is a great contributor to the economy. Annually it contributes $9m to the economy by way of salaries and wages, services and goods. 
Over a long period of time Evans Deakin Industries Ltd has been chasing orders to build ships throughout Australia and overseas in an endeavour to prevent a rundown of the industry, knowing full well the consequences that such a happening will have to the company, to Brisbane and to Queensland. Last December it was the lowest bidder for a big tanker and in March this year it was a competitive bidder for another tanker. In both instances the owners involved were overseas owners, namely the Caltex and Esso companies. Those 2 companies had heard of the proposed change in the present Government's policy towards shipbuilding in Australia and they delayed placing those orders. Both orders were lost to this Queensland firm and they could have been lost to overseas shipbuilding yards because those oil companies were exploring the idea of calling tenders overseas. 
The industry has expressed great concern about the Government's new policy. The industry seems to be unanimous in believing that there should be drastic changes to it. When one looks at this matter cooly, calmly and in a dispassionate manner divorced from party political issues or opinions, there appears to be an abundance of evidence to support the claims of the industry that the implications of the new policy of the Government are so far reaching that the industry is threatened with a run-down and complete elimination. If action is not taken immediately, the building of large ships in Australian yards is in jeopardy. 
The industry has based its claims on 6 factors which I have studied carefully and at some length. The 6 subheadings about which I wish to speak this evening are as follows: Subsidy; the import of new ships; the import of second hand ships; constructional finance; export subsidy; and lastly, eligibility for subsidy. Referring first to subsidy, the Government purports to have increased the subsidy from 33i per cent to 45 per cent. On the surface that looks to be very exciting and encouraging. However, upon analysis, one finds that the method of determining the amount of subsidy has changed somewhat. When the subsidy was 33$ per cent it was determined on the price of ship construction in a United Kingdom yard; but in the new scale of subsidy, the 45 per cent fluctuating scale, the basis of determination is the world price for ship construction. In Swedish and Japanese yards construction is 15 per cent cheaper than it is in the United Kingdom. Therefore we are faced with a simple exercise. On the surface the subsidy appears to have been increased from 331 per cent to 45 per cent on a fluctuating scale; but because the determination is based now on a world price for ship construction instead of the cost of ship construction in the United Kingdom, the shipbuilding yards could receive less in subsidy. Naturally this is of some interest to them. 
The second point 1 wish to speak about is the importation of new ships. The previous restriction of non-preferential tariff duty now has been removed and the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has stated that approval will be freely given for the importation of new ships. The industry now faces a double burden: Free importation, coupled with the absence of any duty protection from nonpreferential areas. Several countries subsidise ships under construction for export. The natural corollary is that the way is open now for foreign ships to be dumped on the Australian market to the severe detriment of the local industry. 
The third point is the importation of second hand ships. Restrictions on imports are in existence still, but the Government is lax in this regard. It is not strictly controlling or implementing this legislation. At the present time it is reported authorita tively that 41 ships operating along the Australian coast are under provisional replacement. A large number of those ships have been operating for over 8 years, which is far beyond the normal period of replacement. The simple conclusion is this: If the Government was doing its job and implementing its restrictive controls on the replacement of ships the shipbuilding yards in Australia could benefit to the extent of 41 orders. 
The fourth point is constructional finance. The Government now has decided that no longer will it become directly involved in the buying and selling of vessels. At the same time it refuses to make credit available for ship construction, as is the case in the majority of other maritime nations. Quite recently the Evans Deakin yard in Brisbane bad the opportunity to tender for the construction of 6 bulk carriers and 2 large tankers for the Yugoslav Government and Yugoslav ship owners. The yard is quite capable of handling those vessels. However, Evans Deakin had to forgo the right to tender because the owners required credit facilities for 8 years at an interest rate of between  6i  and 7 per cent.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
At the suspension of the sitting  I  was dealing with my fourth point regarding the shipbuilding industry. 1 had said that due to lack of credit facilities for the construction of ships, the Australian shipbuilding industry was disadvantaged in comparison with shipbuilding yards overseas.  I  made the point also that Yugoslav shipowners had requested Evans Deakin Pty Ltd in Brisbane to tender for the construction of 6 bulk carriers and 4 tankers. The Evans Deakin shipyards in Brisbane have the capacity to build such ships; in fact it can build ships up to 67,500 dead-weight tons. However, the overseas shipowners required 80 per cent credit over a period of 8 years at interest rates of  6i  per cent to 7 per cent. As  I  pointed out earlier, these credit facilities were not available and, as a consequence, Evans Deakin was unable to tender for the construction of these ships. 
The alarming state of affairs is that credit facilities of this kind are readily available in practically every overseas country that engages in shipbuilding. For example, in Japan credit facilities are available for 8 years at a rate of interest between 5.5 per cent and 6.5 per cent; in Spain credit is available for an unspecified period at a ruling rate of interest of 6.75 per cent to 7.25 per cent; in Sweden it is available at the bond rate for 15 years; in the Philippines it is available at 3 per cent for 1 1 years; and in France it is available at 6.5 per cent for 5 years. Financial credit is readily available in Denmark, Italy and Germany at an interest rate of 7.5 per cent for a period of 8 years. From this honourable senators will see that finance is available to overseas shipyards to the disadvantage of Australian shipyards when they are competing with these yards. 
My fifth point relates to the export subsidy which is causing some concern to the industry. The new policy that the Government brought down during the winter recess continues the non-application of subsidy on vessels built for export, contrary to the Tariff Board recommendation that free import should be balanced by subsidised export. The industry, therefore, is now exposed to overseas competition without being given the opportunity to compete abroad. As  I  mentioned earlier, several countries subsidise construction for export and most other maritime nations provide foreign buyers with liberal credit. 
The sixth point or implication resulting from the new policy relates to eligibility for subsidy. The subsidy now applies to all shipyards with no apparent definition of the term 'shipbuilder'. The application of the subsidy in this way immediately brought into the industry companies which had no shipyard facilities but which were capable of fabricating specialised drilling rigs which appear to be eligible for the subsidy. Already this has increased the fierce competition for tendering and has particularly disadvantaged big shipyards, which have to provide this facility, compared with companies which do not have to provide it.  I  believe that these are ample reasons for the industry to feel apprehensive about its future. 
I have approached this matter in a common sense, cool and calm manner. I have endeavoured to prepare a case which was divorced from Party politics. I do not want to use the debate on this Bill as a means of scoring off the Government on the eve of the election, nor do I want purposely to expose the. Government's inadequacies in its handling of the shipbuilding industry. 1 think that the consequences which will flow if something is not done are too grave for this matter to become a political football to be decided on Party political lines. I pointed out earlier that even in the shipyard in Brisbane 900 skilled labourers and 400 other employees face unemployment if the industry is not stabilised. This is only one of many shipyards throughout Australia. From what I have said honourable senators will be able to see what effect this situation could have on the economy. For some considerable time the industry has been concerned and it has made numerous approaches to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and to the Minister for Shipping and Transport seeking consultation and discussions on matters of policy. It is to the. credit of the Minister for Shipping and Transport that yesterday he received representatives from the shipbuilding industry. I hope that the discussions that they had with the Minister will be fruitful and that as a result the industry will be stabilised. 
I have taken this opportunity during the debate on the. first reading of this Bill to speak of the shipbuilding industry because I believe it is timely to do so in view of the fact that the representatives of the shipbuilding industry are still in Canberra following their discussions yesterday with the Minister for Shipping and Transport. They have continued their discussions with other representatives while they have been here in Canberra. I earnestly suggest to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  that he ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport to give this submission his earnest consideration. This is not something which is merely desirable; it is necessary if the shipbuilding industry is to continue. If he is able to suggest something constructive which will assist in stabilising the industry he will' be securing jobs for hundreds of people throughout Australia and also will be securing the future of the many people who are dependent on them for employment. He will be. doing a good turn for the company and the industry, in addition to which he will be doing a good turn for Australia. 
I make these earnest submissions in the hope that the Minister, after considering them, will be able to come up with something constructive and in the hope that honourable senators will be able to lend a hand in assisting the shipbuilding industry, which is sadly in need of assistance. 
The second point .1 wish to develop is the lack of planning in national fitness, physical education, recreation and sport. In 1939, as a wartime measure the Government of the day introduced the National Fitness Act which charged the Council for National Fitness with the responsibility of seeing to the fitness of Australians. It is to the credit of those responsible in those days that they were able to discharge their duties with credit and to fulfil the task that was set for them. I do not propose that my remarks this evening should be taken as criticism of the many succeeding officers who have been in charge of national fitness. Rather do I say that the efforts required in 1939 as a wartime measure would not be realistic or appropriate to handle the exigencies or the circumstances of the 1970s. 
In the National Fitness Act 1939, provision was made for the establishment of the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness. This body of 9 people was under the chairmanship of the Director-General of Health, or his  Deputy,  another representative from the Department of Health, a Government representative and a representative of each of the 6 States. The membership of the Council has remained in that form ever since. When we talk about physical fitness, recreation and sport, the best parallel that we can draw is in relation to the United States of America. In 1961, the late  President  Kennedy established the Presidents Physical Fitness and Sports Council, but by 1970 that body had become an ineffective Council because of a lack of funds and because of a lack  of  professional or specialist representatives on it. In 1971, this United States body was upgraded and reconstituted. It was placed under the chairmanship  of  astronaut James Lovell who was provided with 14 committee men, 6  of  whom were specialists in their field. I am not suggesting that the 
Commonwealth Government should pui an astronaut in charge of the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness, although many honourable senators do go into space now and again, but I do implore that consideration be given to taking a lead from the United States and that specialist representatives be placed on the Council for National Fitness so that plans can be laid to bring the endeavours of that body into line with what is required in the 1970s. 
Many people readily come to mind. There are outstanding doctors in sports medicine or activity medicine, as some people call it, in Australia. These people are the equal of world specialists in these fields. Coming closer to home, 1 think of  Dr Kevin  Hobbs, the Medical Director for the Queensland Rugby League. He is an expert in intensive training and is a world authority on the subject. He has recently returned to Queensland after spending 8 months al the Department of Health of the University of Wisconsin in the United States. He has brought back a wealth of knowledge which will be valuable not only to the sport which he represents but to sport in general. Other names which readily come to mind are  Dr Ken  Fitch and  Dr Corrigan  who were with the Australian Olympic team in Munich. I mention also  Dr Tony  Miller. So, the Government would not be short of nominees who could adequately fill a place on the upgraded Council for National Fitness. I believe that, if the Commonwealth Government accepts this advice and upgrades its Council, as has been done in the United States, at least we will be laying a basis for the future. But that will not be enough because a good deal of planning is required. 
I do not know how seriously people accept the need for fitness in Australia today. We see changes resulting from automation and push button industry. The 35- hour week is just around the corner with even shorter working hours still to come. If planning is not done by some body to take care of the leisure time which will accrue. Australia will be faced with a leisure crisis. This in itself is a sufficiently important reason why the Government should look hard at the upgrading of the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness. If good planning and studies in depth are not made in this regard, the health of the whole community could be in jeopardy as a result of this leisure crisis. I suggest that the Government give earnest consideration to this matter. 
If still further proof is required of why there should be an upgrading in the personnel of the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness and why present planning should be altered for the future, we need only refer to the report, the tabling in the Senate of which we are still awaiting, of the investigation that was carried out on the physical fitness of Australian school children by  Dr Willee. Dr Willee  finished his draft report in June 1971 and this Senate, despite repeated requests, is still waiting for the report to be tabled in this Parliament. 
I know the reason why it has not been tabled. I have some sympathy with the Government because some of the findings of  Dr Willee's  survey have shocked health officials. The report shows that Australian school children are amongst the most unfit in the world today. This is an alarming and an extraordinary situation. Australia is a land with vast spaces, beautiful beaches and all the natural facilities necessary to encourage sport. Our standard of living enables us to compete in sport and yet our school children are amongst the most unfit in the world today. I venture to say that this is one of the reasons why there has been a delay in the tabling of this report. 
I have explained to honourable senators the situation concerning the leisure crisis and I have also told honourable senators about the findings of  Dr Willee  in his report. One of the reasons, says  Dr Willee,  that school children in Australia schools are unfit is the lack of physical education facilties. Seventy-five per cent of our schools do not have gymnasiums or swimming pools. Surely this is a sad state of affairs, particularly when the Government has been so generous in its subsidies to schools in relation to science blocks and libraries. 
I suggest to the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that he should make equally generous subsidies available to schools for the construction of gymnasia, swimming pools, dance halls and indoor physical recreation facilities. This would be provided in line with the policy which the Government adopts towards science blocks and libraries. I feel that this should be done. It is as important to have a healthy community as it is to have an educated community. I know the Minister will say that provision has been made in the Budget for an increase in the vote to the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness from $350,000 to $500,000. For this Council to produce this planned policy for the future of sport and recreation for Australia, millions of dollars will be required. This need is not unique to Australia. Such a plan has been adopted in Canada already, and is being pursued in the United Kingdom, France and Sou.'h Africa. 
Australia is behind the times. We kid ourselves what a great sporting nation we are because we won 9 gold medals at the Olympic Games. While we are highlighting these facts we forget about the general wellbeing and the health of the average person in the community who may not have the ability to become a champion but who wishes to compete. It will not be a matter of whether he may want to compete in the future. The leisure crisis which will change our way of life is just around the corner. We will need to plan for everyone to compete. People should be fit enough to carry out their jobs, to assist industry and to help it produce more. To do this a fit community will be required. 
I thank the Senate for its indulgence. The reason I have used the motion for the first reading of the Income Tax Bill 1972 to speak on the matters of shipbuilding, physical fitness, recreation and sport, is that these are matters which are causing concern in the community. They are matters which require urgent attention and it is timely for these matters to be considered now. Both items are very important. Shipbuilding is important because the jobs of people in this industry must be protected. What we are asking for, if accepted, will help stabilise the industry and will build up confidence in the economy. If something can be done along the lines sought by the representatives of industry the economy will be stimulated. 
I hope the Acting Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  will take heed of the suggestions I have made regarding the upgrading of the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness and bringing it into line with the President's Physical Fitness and Sports Council in the United States of America. If the Government does the 2 things I have mentioned it will be doing the people of Australia a good turn and will be doing something worth while for the community. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Health. By way of preface I point out that Australia's successes at the Munich Olympic Games were registered in water sports, namely swimming and yachting. Has the Minister considered the reason for Australia's failure in the other competitions, particularly the athletic events? Will the Minister request the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness to carry out an in depth study of the performance of Australia's Olympic Games team along lines similar to the youth fitness survey and the 'Fitness Australia' campaign, the cost of which was met by generous public sponsorship? 
 I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Has the Queensland Government refused to supply volunteers to the Australian police unit for service with the United Nations peace keeping force in Cyprus? If so, have representations been made to Queensland requesting reconsideration? If they have, by whom and when were they made? Will the AttorneyGeneral tell the Senate why Queensland withdrew from the scheme? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Does the new subsidy to shipbuilders represent no actual improvement on the previous subsidy because it is now based on a world price for building a ship and not on the 10 per cent to 15 per cent higher quote received from a British yard. 
Why was the Tariff Board's recommendation that subsidy should be applied to ships built for export if free import of new ships was permitted, rejected. 

 Senator COTTON- The Minister for Shipping and Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Under the subsidy scheme operating before 1 June 1972 the maximum subsidy level was 334 per cent of the Australian construction cost. The actual rate for a particular ship was based on the cost of a similar ship built in the United Kingdom, including delivery to Australia. Under the new scheme, the subsidy level ranges from 25 per cent to 45 per cent of the Australian construction cost, according to the gross tonnage of the vessel. Vessels over 4,000 gross tons, therefore, will now attract a higher subsidy than under the old scheme. Some vessels below this size, which did not require subsidy at the previous maximum level would now also attract a higher subsidy. Moreover, subsidy now applies to modification and escalation costs. 
The Tariff Board in its report, did not indicate thatits recommendations in relation to: 
freeimport of new and secondhand ships and 
expansion of subsidy to ship exports were in any way interdependent. On the contrary, the Board made it clear that it considered the abolition of the import prohibition on both classes of ships to be fundamental to its proposals. 
While the Government did not adopt the Tariff Board's recommendation to subsidise ships for export, neither was the Board's recommendation for unrestricted imports of new and secondhand ships accepted.It is not the practice of the Government to provide subsidy on manufactured goods for export. If the Government was to agree to subsidise the construction of ships for export, no doubt there would be many other industries which would seek similar assistance. Moreover the Government took into account the implications for our international trade relations arising from any decision to subsidise exports of manufactured products. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. In view of the great demand by residents of New South Wales, 
Queensland, Western Australia and the Northern Territory for replays of the rugby league World Cup matches to be played in France from 28th October 1972 to 12th November 1972, will the Minister investigate whether the Australian Broadcasting Commission intends to procure the video-tapes of these matches for Australian audiences? If it is not the intention of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to do so, will the Minister tell the Senate why not? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Now that the Commonwealth, State and City of Brisbane composite committee has agreed upon plans for the development of Brisbane Airport, when will his Department be advising the owners of properties in the area required for development of the conditions and date of resumption, as these people are becoming increasingly concerned at the lack of information in the matter? When does the Minister expect that Brisbane Airport will be able to handle jumbo jets? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that of some 8,000 hotel/motel rooms of an international standard mooted for construction in the eastern State capitals only50 per cent are likely to be constructed; if so, will this reduction have a deleterious effect on the Australian tourist industry. 
Will the Minister make a statement on the provision of government assistance for the construction of international standard hotels in cities. 

 Senator COTTON- The Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts and Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 

 Senator McAuliffe may be referring to reports issuing from the Australian Tourist Commission some time ago. 
I understand that about two years ago the Commission estimated that during the preceding two or three years, hotel/motel projects promising about 8,000 international or top-class rooms together with convention facilities had been announced for Melbourne and Sydney. Subsequent inquiries apparently revealed that projects in the category of 'cancelled' or'very likely to be cancelled' accounted for about 3,000 of those rooms. 
I understand that the Commission, while keeping generally abreast of the trends in the accommodation industry does not presently have precise figures available on the future accommodation construction programme. In the absence of precise and current data, I believe it would be inappropriate for me to comment on the adequacy of planned accommodation. However, I understand that there is currently surplus capacity in the accommodation industry particularly in some capital cities. 
The Government recently looked at the whole question of financial assistance to the tourist industry. It decided that the best way to allocate its limited resources was to assist the development of tourist attractions such as Australiana and pioneer settlements, the preservation of historic sites and buildings, fauna sanctuaries and the like, considered to have particular appeal to overseas visitors. 
It was not considered appropriate to provide general assistance to the accommodation sector at this stage. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the Queensland Government refused to provide volunteer members of that State's police force for service with the Australian Police Unit serving with the United Nations' Peace Keeping Force in Cyprus; if so, what were the reasons given by the Queensland Government for declining to provide volunteers. 
Were representations made to the Queensland Government in an endeavour to have it reconsider its decision; if so, by whom and when. 

 Senator GREENWOOD - The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (2). Early in 1971 the Minister in charge of Police in Queensland advised that on account of the situation with the police strength in Queensland that State would withdraw its participation from the Australian Police Contingent in Cyprus. In May of that year the then Attorney-General wrote to the Minister in charge of Police asking that the decision not to continue to participate be reviewed. In August 1971 the Minister replied confirming the earlier advice that the stalling position in the Queensland Police Force was such that the State was unable to agree to continue participation in providing men for the Australian Police Contingent in Cyprus. 
Is the Minister for Health aware that aGoverment White Paper in the United Kingdom revealed that 5,607,435 experiments were done on living cats, dogs and other animals in 1971- an increase of 25,000 over the 1970 figure - and that much scientific experiment is done simply for the sake of experiment and produces nothing of relevance? Will the Minister inform the Senate of Australia's record in this area? If the behaviour of Australian scientists is no better than that of those in other countries, will he consider alternative research techniques? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONAs a matter of interest, Australia has set down a very strict code. Recently I had occasion to look at it to satisfy myself, as Minister, that the code and provisions in relation to experimental work which is being done in the name of health are appropriate. I came to a judgment that they were. In Australia there are qualifications on the limited amount of research work that is done. The qualifications in that field are appropriate. The matter is one of public interest, and I would be perfectly willing to supply a paper which sets out the codelines that are imposed. I must admit that when the honourable senator gave the figures in relation to the United Kingdom he rather jolted me. All honourable senators recognise the need for research, in all its forms, to be continued, but I must admit that the magnitude of the figure that he gave jolted me, as I am sure that he was jolted when he read it. I will try to get information on the United Kingdom background. I will put down Australia's codeline principles on this issue. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Why did the Minister quote gross income levels when referring to income eligibility levels under the Government's health insurance scheme, but quote taxable income level when referring to the proposed scheme of the Australian Labor Party, when replying to a question without notice by  Senator Jessop  on Tuesday, 23 May 1972. 
Is the Minister aware that there is  a  very great difference between gross income and taxable income and that under the Australian Labor Party's scheme a man supporting a wife and one child on $43.40 per week would pay no contribution for health insurance but is currently required to pay53 cents per week under the Government's plan. 
Is there progressive cover according to the number of dependants under the Australian Labor Party's scheme so that a man supporting a wife and six children on $58.30 per week receives free cover but under the Government plan is required to pay full contribution of $1.66 per week. 
What steps are proposed to introduce some equity into theGovernment's scheme, similar to the underlying principles which have guided the development of the Australian Labor Party's universal health insurance scheme. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Gross income levels were quoted when referring to the National Health Scheme because eligibility under the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan is determined by the level of gross income. The Australian Labor Party has, on the other hand, used taxable incomes to determine the level at which it would waive the proposed levy of 1.35 per cent. 
The level of gross income which would ensure that  a  family qualified for free medical and hospital treatment under the Australian Labor Party's health proposals would depend on the amount of concessional deductions allowed. Under the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan, a family earning $43.30 per week is already eligible for the full level of assistance and therefore pays no contribution. In fact a family earning $51.50  a  week ($2,678  a  year) or less receives free insurance cover against medical costs and public ward hospital charges. Families earning $54.50 a week ($2,834  a  year) or less pay only one-third of the normal hospital and medical insurance contribution; and families earning $57.50 a week ($2,990) or less would pay two-thirds of the normal contribution. 
Under the Labor Party health proposals, low income earners supporting a family with one or more children would be automatically covered at public expense where their taxable income does not exceed $1,700 per year. The income limit applying to low income families under the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan, in respect of free health insurance, is based on the minimum wage level payable under Commonwealth awards in the various States. 
The Government considers that the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan is providing significant relief to low income families and other needy sections of the community. The graduated scale of assistance provided by the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan to low income families overcomes difficulties which might arise if there were a sharp cut-off point as would be the case under the Australian Labor Party's proposals. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, ls it a fact that a company named Latem in Singapore is exporting louvres to Australia where they are marketed under the name of Tresco by W. P. Tresise and Co. Pty Ltd of Malvern, Victoria? Is it also a fact that the finished Singapore product is marketed in Queensland for more than 25 per cent below the cost of locally produced louvres? In the circumstances, what chance has the Australian manufacturing industry of competing particularly when these louvres are allowed in on a  Hi  per cent preferential tariff? Will the Minister investigate the position and, if necessary, review the tariff so as to give effective protection for the jobs of Australian workers? 
Has the Minister for Health received a letter from the Australian Sports Medicine Association conveying a statement issued by the Federal Council meeting at Adelaide on 20th October 1972 appealing to the Federal Government to follow the example of many nations throughout the world by establishing a Ministry of Recreation and Sport and upgrading the Commonwealth National Fitness Council? The Minister is aware that ever since I entered this Senate I have advocated such measures. Now that they have the support of such an august body as the Australian Sports Medicine Association, will the Minister tell the Senate what action he intends to take in this regard in the near future? 
When the Estimates for the PostmasterGeneral's Department for 1971-72 were being discussed in a Senate Estimates Committee, I invited attention to a point which concerned me. I refer to the lack of consideration that appeared to be given to rugby league in the programming and televising of sporting events. After hearing a lot of generalisations as to the reason why this was so, I was not satisfied and pursued the matter through Estimates Committee 8. I asked that the Committee be supplied with a detailed list of the expenditure by the Australian Broadcasting Commission on about 15 or 16 sports that were covered by its television programmes. This request was resisted by the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme). 
It was resisted on the ground that the request would necessitate the divulging of confidential information that would disadvantage the Australian Broadcasting Commission in business competition with its commercial competitors. Estimates Committee B was forthright on the matter and carried a resolution that the Committee of the Whole should be supplied with the information I was seeking. The Committee of the Whole unanimously carried the resolution and recorded that when this sort of information is requested from the Australian Broadcasting Commission by any honourable senator it should be made available to the Parliament. The next move in this litany of events was that the Australian Broadcasting Commission said it seemed unfair that it should have to table confidential information which would disadvantage it in competition with its commercial competitors. This situation was considered by Estimates Committee B which referred the matter to the Senate Standing Orders Committee. That Committee decided that the Senate could seek this confidential information from any corporate body provided that it was received in camera and dealt with in camera and provided also that first of all the request for the information received the permission of the Senate. That has brought me to this point where I am still dissatisfied that the information that 1 have been seeking for 18 months is unavailable. 
I did intend this evening to pursue the matter further by asking the Senate to carry a motion that the Australian Broadcasting Commission be requested to supply this information in camera. However, in view of the fact that the Senate was expected to rise tomorrow I was doubtful of the success I might have had. So 1 will leave my request and live to fight another day. I rose this evening to have permanently recorded in Hansard my view that even if I had pursued the matter I doubt whether it would have altered the existing situation. I was fortunate enough to receive from the Australian Broadcasting Commission a paper, prepared for submission to members of State and regional advisory committees, on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's sporting department and its work. The paper was prepared by Bernard Kerr, the director of sporting. After reading submissions contained in this paper I feel perfectly sure that even if the information I sought on the broadcasting and televising of various sports had been provided in camera, it would not have contained much about the Australian Broadcasting Commission's programme policy and would not have resulted in rugby league being given a better go than it is getting at the present time. 
I want to say briefly that in this paper dealing with the policy and future of the ABC's sporting television service it is laid down clearly that it is agreed by every country that has television that sport is one of the best subjects to televise. It may be of interest to honourable senators to know that before each major telecast a programme conference is held with the producer and commentators to brief them on the event and how it is to be covered. That is an important point. This document goes on to state: 
While the ABC will continue to provide the widest coverage of sport, it will also concentrate on achieving the highest standards possible both in commentary and presentation. 
That brings me to a point that I have raised continuously in this Parliament. Why is not rugby league, the dominant sport in Queensland and New South Wales, a game which is played extensively in Western Australia and the Northern Territory, given more sympathetic consideration? Why are noi replays of the rugby league match's of the day shown in the areas  I  have mentioned? I think some action should be taken now 10 bring this about. I have been pursuing this matter continually. Why are the English rugby league club matches not replayed for viewers in Queensland, New South Wales, Western Australia and the Northern Territory? Most importantly of all - I have asked this question in the Senate in the last few weeks - why is not the  ABC  televising a very important international sporting event, namely, the rugby league world cup finals that are being played in France? I was told that the policy of the ABC is to replay on television games which are played in every State. It is of no use my standing here and being hypocritical about this. I am firmly convinced that the people responsible for sports programmes on ABC television are prejudiced against rugby league. They have refused to televise the rugby league world cup series that commences in France on Sunday, lt is being played between England, France, New Zealand and Australia, and the viewing public in this country would number millions. They have refused to do that yet at page  15  of this paper that I have this claim is proudly made: 
Elaborate arrangements were made for the coverage by radio and television of the World Soccer Cup elimination series. 
I have nothing against soccer or the Australian rules game favoured by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood).  I know that his nose is a little out of joint because North Adelaide, made his team bite the dust recently.  1  think Australian rules is a good game and (hat soccer is a good game but rugby league is the greatest game of all. Although the ABC has refused to televise the world cup rugby league matches to be played between 4 nations in France, with a great fanfare of trumpets it says that it televised the world cup soccer elimination series. That reads all right but let me read on. It is stated in this paper: 
The Australian team played in Korea,  Mozambique  and Israel before the first elimination match in Australia. 
Anyone with common sense surely could not compare that world cup soccer series with the world cup series to be played in France commencing this weekend. As a senator representing Queensland in this Parliament I must register again for the umpteenth time my dissatisfaction at the lack of information, consideration and explanation given to the Senate about an obvious omission or something that seems to me to be a policy of prejudice against a particular sport. 
 I appreciate the good humour and the consideration given to my request when the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  made his reply. It is true that I have a passionate love for rugby league. 1 suppose that is not unreasonable because 1 am  president  of the Queensland Rugby League. 1 also have a warm appreciation for the other ball games. I regularly watch them and enjoy them on the television. But m.y request has now ceased to be an argument concerned with the rivalry between one type of football as against another type of football. I am in pursuit of the Australian Broadcasting Commission because rugby league is a major sport which is extensively the major sport in 2 popular States - Queensland and New South Wales - and to a lesser extent in Western Australia and the Northern Territory. Those Stales would represent more than half the population of Australia. Yet this game is not receiving consideration in ABC programming in proportion to its popularity. That is the principle involved as far as I am concerned, lt is no longer a matter of rugby league versus Australian rules or soccer or any other sport. It is a matter of a game that is popular probably with half the population of Australia but which is not receiving programming in consideration of that popularity. 1 intend to pursue the matter in this chamber at every opportunity because I am convinced that prejudice is being shown against it on account of its being a professional sport. 
asked the Minis ter for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
When will the Department of Civil Aviation advise the owners of land required for the further development of Brisbane Airport of the date of possible resumptions and the conditions which will be applied to such resumptions. 
When will Brisbane Airport be capable of handling jumbo jets. 

 Senator COTTON- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
At the request of the Prime Minister all Commonwealth Departments concerned, in cooperation with State and City of Brisbane interests, are completing the engineering and environmental studies as a matter of more detailed urgency. Some $600,000 of investigation are involved. 
Prompt consideration will be given to the Commonwealth/State/City of Brisbane Advisory Committee's report immediately those studies and other technical reviews have geen completed. 
Meanwhile, it is not possible to advise when any land is likely to be acquired. 
However, in accordance with well established practice, the Commonwealth will acquire that land at fair prices and with careful regard to the commitments and desires of existing land users. 
For similar reasons it is not yet possible to say when Brisbane Airport will be capable of handling jumbo jet aircraft. 
 During the contentious debate on the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Bill earlier this year, in response to challenges by Opposition senators the Government repeatedly gave assurances that it sought peace and harmony in industry and was doing everything possible to facilitate the working of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. As  Senator Cavanagh  has said, for the first time applications were called to fill vacancies for Commissioners and almost 200 applications were received from people in all sections of the community concerned with industrial relations. The advertisement stated that the applications were being called to fill vacancies caused by retirements of commissioners and to ensure the effective operation of the new conciliation and arbitration procedures introduced by the Conciliation and Arbitration Act earlier this year. But what do we find the Government has done in relation to the appointments which were announced in the Press? There are 2 representatives from employer organisations and 2 representatives who possess Australian Democratic Labor Party influence. One of them,  Mr F.  W. J. Brown, is a Queenslander. Until recently he was an official of the Queensland Federated Clerks Union. He resigned from that position on account of ill health. At the time of his appointment he was a clerk with the Australian Workers Union in Queensland. Honourable senators will appreciate that it is a pretty decent lift from the position of clerk to commissioner of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
In fairness I must say that  Mr Brown  has a history of resignations from many jobs due to ill health. A useful suggestion which might be taken by the Minister is that before appointments to the Commission are confirmed the appointees should have to pass a medical examination. 
It is an arduous, strenuous and demanding position. I felt that I must rise to express some concern that the appointments are not in line with the assurance which the Government has continually given whenever trade unions arid the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission relations are under discussion. The Government says that it is avoiding confrontation; it is not purposely setting out to attack the wicked trade unions and that it is doing everything humanly possible to facilitate the work of this Commission. But surely anyone with common sense must realise that this is an extraordinary situation which has been brought about by the Government. 
As I said earlier, 2 of the commissioners are from employer organisations and the other 2 are gentlemen who possess DLP influence. Surely this will not do anything to improve relations between management and the trade unions. This is a big blow to the system and one which completely vindicates the stand which was taken by Opposition senators during the debate earlier this year on the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. The Opposition claimed that the Government was introducing legislation to stifle the amalgamation of unions for political expediency. The measure was forced upon the Government by the Australian Democratic Labor Party. The Government knew that if it did not accede to the request of that body its electoral prospects which are very low at the moment would be infinitely worse. The appointments which have been announced completely justify the stand which Opposition senators took in that debate. In all sincerity I feel that the appointments made - particularly 2 of them - are a big blow to the system of conciliation and arbitration. 
 The Bill before the Senate is an annual measure which deals with assignments that have been made by the Commonwealth Grants Commission. The main purpose of the Bill which we are discussing is to arrange for grants to be made to the various States. The grants made will be $1Om to Queensland, $7.6m to Tasmania and $2 1m to South Australia. These 3 claimant States made application to the Commonwealth Grants Commission under the provisions of section 96 of the Constitution. We on this side of the Senate propose to support the Bill. We feel that the Queensland Government has acted correctly and properly in making an application to the Commonwealth Grants Commission for this additional finance. 
The Labor Party sincerely believes that the State of Queensland is entitled to receive this additional finance from the Commonwealth Government. Some years ago it may have been argued that when a State made an application to the Commonwealth Grants Commission for assistance it placed itself in the category of being a mendicant State and so, in effect, would be governed by default because the Commonwealth Government would reserve the right to examine the accounts and the finances of the State. The attitude could have been adopted that whoever was the lender would call the tune as far as government of the State was concerned. In latter years a change has occurred in the format governing financial relationships between the States and the Commonwealth. 
Honourable senators will recall that at the Premiers Conference in June 1970 it was decided to grant an additional amount of S2 per capita to the States of Victoria and New South Wales for each of the ensuing 5 years. At that conference the Queensland representatives pointed out that the granting of this additional finance to Victoria and New South Wales would have obvious effects on the standards of and comparisons between these States and Queensland and other claimant States. So pertinent was the argument at the time that the then Prime Minister invited those States which felt that their finances would be injuriously affected to make an application to the Commonwealth Grants Commission for assistance. At the time it was pointed out also that, regardless of the magnitude of any grant given to Queensland, its needs would far exceed the amount that would be given to that State. 
Consequently, the Queensland Government prepared a submission to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. In its submission the Queensland Government outlined its disabilities. Having considered Queensland's position, the Commonwealth Grants Commission allocated in May this year an amount of S9m to that State. This Bill provides for an additional Si Om to be granted to Queensland. The total grant made to Queensland for this period is approximately $20tn. I understand from the Commonwealth Grants Commission's report that there is still under consideration a completion amount. When the Treasury officials and the Commonwealth Grants Commission have completed their investigation of the audited accounts of the Queensland Treasury, this matter will be further considered. 
This brings me to the point that when the Queensland Grant Bill, as distinct from the Bill we are discussing now, was before this chamber in May of this year I made strong allegations about happenings in Queensland. I said that there was an attempt by a syndicate of bookmakers to take over the gambling business in Queensland. During that debate I said that they were adopting Maffia-type tactics, intimidation, strong arm tactics and standover methods to gain control of gambling in Queensland. I raised the matter during that debate because I thought that action should bc taken to investigate my claims. The State Parliament had not met for 9 months and as a State election was imminent the matter had to be raised somewhere. I felt that if this attempted takeover were allowed to go unheeded it would have a serious effect on the revenue that would accrue to the Queensland Government from taxation on gambling enterprises. At that time, to give some idea of the magnitude of gambing and the importance that taxes on gambling plays in the revenue producing machinery of all States, I evidenced that in the 45-week period up to the time 1 was speaking in May an amount of $86m had been invested through the Totalisator Administration Board alone in Queensland. This amount did not take into account bookmakers' turnover tax and other items of revenue. At that time I appealed to the Minister in charge of racing in Queensland,  Sir Gordon  Chalk. If he had not heard of the allegations he possibly would hear of them now that 1 made the allegations in the Commonwealth Parliament. I thought that if he found the allegations were correct he should do something about them. 
 Mr Deputy President,  I disagree and in support of my contention that I am in order I refer to the point of order that the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  raised when I was speaking in May. Because I lacked advice on whether he was right I did not reply at that time, but since then the Commonwealth Grants Commission has published its 39th annual report for 1972. Apparently it has made an in-depth study of the effect that gambling revenue has on the finances of the States and for the first time in a report has devoted 5 pages to this subject. The argument that I am dev- eloping is designed to show that if action were not taken - it has been taken since - Queensland's taxes on gambling would have been seriously affected. The Commonwealth Grants Commission apparently regards this matter as important because it has made pertinent references in its report to the lack of effort displayed by South Australia and Tasmania in not encouraging more gambling pursuits in those States. With respect, I ask that I be permitted to proceed. I can deal with this matter later, but if the Minister will be patient and tolerant 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wilkinson)  - Order! A point of order has been taken concerning the relevance of the material the honourable senator is introducing into this debate. At the moment 1 cannot see that the honourable senator is straying from the point he is making in criticising the Bill. It seems to me that the honourable senator is in order. The point of order is not upheld. 
I did not seek to embarrass the State Minister in any way but 1 felt, in conscience, that the matter had to be raised. After I made statements when debating the Queensland Grant Bill I spoke subsequently on the adjournment debate and sought leave to table 9 lengthy documents supporting the allegations that I had made. What happened on that occasion is now history. I was refused leave by 2 Ministers. 
I sought leave to incorporate them and leave was refused. After I completed reading the documents  Senator Rae  moved a motion to force me to table the documents. What he did not know is that when leave to incorporate them in Hansard was refused I voluntarily offered to table the documents. It is to the credit of the Senate that  Senator Rae's  motion was defeated. After that motion was defeated  Senator Wright  rose in his place. I had attracted the heavy artillery of the front bench. He unleashed a personal attack on me and said my actions were cowardly, that I acted in a cowardly manner in trying to defame people under the privilege of the Parliament, that I had attacked a Minister of the Crown in another State and had not given him an opportunity to brief someone to defend him here and that he, the State Minister, was unable to defend himself. The essence of what  Senator Wright  said was to imply that I was a coward and had acted in a cowardly manner.  Senator Greenwood  also spoke on that occasion. I shall quote his exact words lest it be suggested I am quoting him out of context, lt is to his credit, however, although it was in the early hours of the morning and he was in an angry mood, as was  Senator Wright,  that he did not make any personal reflections on my character. He devoted his attention to a point of order concerning whether what I was saying had any relevance to the Commonwealth Parliament. At page 2042 of the Senate Hansard of 24th and 25th May  Senator Greenwood  said: 
Not a word which was mentioned tonight by  Senator McAuliffe  about the alleged omissions of, or actions which ought to be taken by, the Queensland Minister who is in charge of racing and bookmakers in Queensland has any relevance whatsoever to a matter which affects this Commonwealth Parliament. 
What rot from a responsible Minister. I have never heard a more ludicrous statement. The Minister said that what I was speaking about had no relevance for the Commonwealth Parliament. Earlier in this present debate I have instanced that the Commonwealth Grants Commission for the very first time in a report has devoted 5 pages - pages 78 to 82 - to dealing with taxes on gambling. It makes some pertinent observations with which I do not have time to deal, but I will be only too happy on another occasion to debate this further. The Grants Commission made a study in depth of the influence that gambling in the various States has on the revenue producing machinery available to the States. It makes the pertinent observation that unless South Australia, which it criticises for its religious and cultural background, and Tasmania give more attention to raising revenue from gambling they cannot expect to receive sympathetic consideration from the Commission. The Commission pointed out that one of the standard States, New South Wales, raises $40m annually from poker machines and that the revenue raised in Victoria the other standard State, through the activities of the Totalisator Agency Board places Tasmania and South Australia at a disadvantage compared with the 2 standard States. What rot it is for the Attorney-General and for the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  to take points of order and suggest that what I am talking about has no relevance to the Commonwealth Parliament. Each year $936m is raised by the States in their own right. One-eighth of that sum is raised from taxes on gambling activities. Is it not important to query whether or not the taxes that should be accruing to Queensland are being eroded by a syndicated takeover of the gambling industry in that State? 
This brings me to a very important point, and that is what has happened since I spoke previously in this chamber about the syndicated takeover of bookmakers. The paddock bookmakers association in Queensland held a meeting. By an overwhelming majority it removed from office the 3 officials whom I mentioned in May and replaced them with other officials. To use racing parlance, they have been tiptoed out of their positions. That association vindicated the claims that I had made in the Parliament and supported completely all the allegations that I had made. I am happy to tell the Senate that as a result of my intervention in this Parliament sanity, confidence and fair play have been restored to the dealings of the bookmakers association in Queensland and the State Government has no need to worry whether the taxes on gambling due to it will be correctly paid. 
The most important thing is that 2 weeks after I made these statements in the Senate a gentleman who works hand in glove with the 3 people whom I mentioned and who is a very close associate of the 3 men was at a function that was attended by my parliamentary secretary. This man approached my secretary and said: 'I have a message for your boss,  Senator McAuliffe.  I want you to tell him that if he continues to make in Parliament these allegations about my friends or mentions me in the Parliament in future he will be dead within 2 years - 6 months on either side'. There was no other inference left in my secretary's mind than that this man would bump me off. A week later an anonymous telephone call came to the rugby league headquarters at Lang Park, asking for me. The Secretary of the 
Queensland Rugby League said that I was not there. A similar threat was made to the Secretary over the telephone to convey to me. As if that was not bad enough, 3 weeks ago after I alighted at Mascot from an aircraft from Brisbane and while I was in a queue waiting to re-book to Canberra, I was approached by one of the 3 men whom I had mentioned in the Parliament, and a conversation transpired. I gave him more than he gave me. At the end of the conversation he said: 'I will get you and do you in'. There was no doubt that it was a threat because another senator was standing nearby, and thought I could have been in trouble and walked over in case I needed any assistance. 
I am documenting all that evidence and 1 have consulted a solicitor in Brisbane. In the very near future I will be handing it to the responsible authorities. I do not scare easily. I am not scared of any of these individuals. They are of such a calibre that I think you could beat a battalion of them with your felt hat. But what does concern me is that individuals or creatures like this can be walking around the city, continuing their intimidation of and standover methods against a member of the Commonwealth Parliament. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was expressing concern that individuals whom I mentioned in the debate on the Queensland Grant Bill in May were allowed to continue with their intimidation and standover methods not only against other people in their profession but also now against a senator of the Commonwealth Parliament. One would have thought that these men would have heeded the warnings that were given to them in this Parliament last May, that they would have mended their ways and started to behave themselves. Before I leave this topic I would like to reply briefly to the allegations that were levelled against me by the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright).  I take into consideration that this happened in the early hours of the morning when the patience and tolerance of honourable senators had been severely tested by the reading of 9 lengthy documents. But at the same time I cannot let what he had to say go unanswered because the people to whom I have been referring, or their agents, have circularised in Queensland, to my embarrassment,  Senator Wright's  remarks that I was cowardly in my action. 
I have many shortcomings but I do not think that among them is a lack of moral or physical courage. One does not receive an honourable discharge from the Australian Imperial Forces after 5 years service, 31/2 years of which were spent in an overseas theatre of war, including the siege of Tobruk; one is not appointed  President  of the Queensland Rugby Football League, to be the symbol of the major sport in Queensland, unless one is a decent citizen and a man of integrity and unless one has been active in community affairs and is of good character. I have had continuous membership of a great political party the Australian Labor Party extending over 27 years. I am in the top echelon of that Party in Queensland, on its Queensland Central Executive. I serve on committees at State and Federal level. I represent the Australian Labor Party in this chamber and I represent the people of Queensland as a senator in the Commonwealth Parliament. Those 3 claims that I make in all sincerity and modesty should suffice to refute the claims of cowardice that have been levelled against me by  Senator Wright.  I shall let the matter rest there and leave it to individual senators to judge for themselves who is right and who is wrong in the matter. 
I turn now to the States Grant (Special Assistance) Bill. Soon after the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission was tabled in the Parliament a report appeared in the Brisbane 'Telegraph' of a statement attributed to the Federal Minister for Housing,  Mr Kevin  Cairns, the honourable member for Lilley in another place. The report read: 
Report backs free hospitals. 'The Commonwealth Grams Commission's report tabled in the House of Representatives today indicated the Commission's support for the Queensland free hospital system,' the Housing Minister,  Mr Cairns,  said today. 
I challenge the Minister for Housing, any other Minister or any Government supporter to show me where the report says that. I have read the report very carefully. It analyses the hospitals position in the other States but it makes no mention of an annysis of the position in Queensland. The Minister for Housing has juggled an&gt;' turned the truth about so much that it is unrecognisable as a fact. 
To give the true position regarding free hospitalisation in Queensland I will quote the figures of the Queensland Treasuer. In his report last year he said that the free hospital system in Queensland cost $79m. In his Budget Speech this year he said that the cost had risen to $88m. Honourable senators should remember those figures - S79m last year and $88m this year, an increase of S9m in the cost of free hospitals in Queensland. Queensland has been the recipient of 2 special grants from the Commonwealth, one in May this year of $9m and an increase of  Sim  in the one we are debating tonight, making an amount of $10m. So the expenditure on free hospitals in Queensland has increased by S9m yet the additional revenue from the Commonwealth to Queensland is  Sim.  How on earth can anyone reconcile that with the statement made by the Federal Minister for Housing that the Commonwealth Grants Commission is supporting Queensland's free hospital system? 
In the limited time at my disposal I want to deal with the poor effort made by the Queensland Housing Commission in relation to the Slates Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act of 1969 as distinct from the Bill we are discussing. In 1969, S25m was allocated for expenditure by the 5 States on the erection of home units for single age pensioners. It had to be spent within 5 years. Queensland's allocation was S3. 69m. Let us look at Queensland's record in this regard. In the first year of operation, 1969-70, out of a total of 665 home units for aged people that were constructed in Australia, Queensland's effort was nil. In 1970-71, out of a total of 1,433 home units for aged people that were constructed in Australia, Queensland's contribution was 18. In the last report that was tabled quite recently, covering the period 1971-72, out of a total of 2,748 home units constructed in Australia, Queensland had completed 18 and had promised to construct another 154. Being generous and taking into the calculation of Queensland's effort the promise of 154 home units, one finds that Queensland has under construction or has completed construction of 172 home units out of a total of 2,748. In terms of dollars and cents, Queensland has spent §769,206 in 3 years out of an allocation from the Commonwealth Government of S3. 69m. This is not money that has to be met by a matching grant or that has to be subsidised by the State Government. It is free money that Queensland is not prepared to spend. Possibly the most harassing effect of the whole situation is that Queensland is showing a complete lack of regard for the age pensioners in that State. 
The lack of enterprise of the Queensland Housing Commission can also be associated with a serious industrial dispute that has occurred at Queensland Alumina Ltd's works at Gladstone. The company has suspended operations and, as a result, 1,200 men have been dismissed from their jobs. The trade union movement and the ALP in Queensland accept that there has been an excessive number of disputes at Gladstone. It would be foolish to do otherwise. But instead of indulging in recriminations on who is to blame and who is not to blame it would be better to look at the reasons for the dispute. In my opinion, the main reason for the situation at Gladstone is the lack of planning, the lack of accommodation and the lack of decent working conditions. With the workers it is not money. It behoves the Commonwealth Government, the Queensland Government and the Gladstone Town Council to shoulder their responsibilities, do some planning and arrange some finance to alleviate this position. It is no good saying that they cannot get the money. Quite recently, by the stroke of a pen. the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  gave New South Wales SI 5m so that  Sir Robert  Askin could balance his Budget. There is a responsibility on the tripartite system of government - local. State and Commonwealth - to do something about it. Responsibility also rests on the shoulders of Kaiser Engineers and Constructors Ltd and Queensland Alumina Ltd. They should join forces with the local authority, the State Government and the Commonwealth Government in planning, making finance available and providing the workers of this town with decent living conditions - housing and hostel and caravan parking. If they did this they would eliminate the industrial unrest that is worrying not only the people of Gladstone - the men and their families - but also the State of Queensland generally. 
asked the Minis ter representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Will there be an upsurge in the number of foreignbuilt ships on the Australian coast now that approval to import new ships will be freely given, due to the removal of the non-preferential tariff. 
Has the Australian National Line placed orders for the construction of ships with a foreign shipbuilding yard at a time when Australian yards are facing a critical shortage of orders. 

 Senator COTTON- The Minister for Shipping and Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. The level of subsidy proposed by the Tariff Board was assessed on the assumption that the rate for duty for vessels over 200 gross tons would be free. This was adopted by the Government. However the Government rejected the Board's recommendation for the immediate removal of restrictions on the import of new and second hand ships. It believed that such action could lead to a serious curtailment in the market for the Australian shipbuilding industry. The Government has kept the situation under continual review following the decision taken on the Tariff Board's report. It is concerned at indications that, in relation to import policy on vessels, the impact of the May decision may not be in accord with the Government's objectives of the maintenance of an efficient shipbuilding industry. Until such time as the full effects of the Government's new proposals can be gauged, I do not envisage any increase in the number of imported ships coming into Australia, and, therefore, during this period the import practices that operated prior to the Government's announcement of 31st May 1972 will be resumed. 
All ships will continue to be prohibited imports but, as in the past, new ships 200 tons gross or less and secondhand ships of internal capacity of 1,500 cubic feet or less may be imported under a general consent' to import. All other ships will require the specific approval for their importation. 
This represents a basic variation from the earlier position providing for 'freely given' approvals to import new ships. This affords further proof of the Government's determination to aid the development of the Australian shipbuilding industry. 
The Australian National Line recently placed an order with the Japanese shipbuilders, Kawasaki Heavy Industries, for the construction of a vehicledeck ship with capacity for 1,400 containers. This vessel is to be utilised in the Eastern Searoad Service  to  Japan. I should emphasise that, before placing the order.Theline approached the 4 Australian shipbuilding yards capable of constructing a vessel of this  size  and type in order to ascertain if they wished to submit an indicative price and delivery  Lime for  a variety of reasons, none of the yards was interested in submitting a tender for this vessel. It must be stressed that the Australian National Line has consistently adopted apolicy of having its coastal ships built in local yards. Since its inception in 1956, the Line has had 24 vessels built in Australia and presently has 2 new vehicledeck steel carriers under construction at the State Dockyard, Newcastle. 
Of the Line's 24 ships currently operating in the Australian coasting trade, all, with the exception of the temporarilyimported vessels 'Tolga' and 'Echuca' against which there are commitments to build replacements in this country, have been built in Australia. 

 - Mr President, my question is respectfully addressed to yourself. As the broadcasting of parliamentary debates has a popular rating with listening audiences and as the Australian Broadcasting Commission network now remains on air until midnight, will you raise with the Joint Committee on the Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceedings the question of having parliamentary broadcasts extended to cover the adjournment debate? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
When can the Senate expect to receive the results of a survey, headed by  Dr A.  W. Willee, on the fitness of the Australian school children, the draft of which was completed in June 1971. 
Is the cause of the delay in the publication of the survey the fact that one of its conclusions has upset health officials because it shows that Australian school children are considered to be among the most unfit in the world. 
Does the Minister consider that the National Fitness Act 1941, which was introduced as a war-time measure, is appropriate in the vastly different circumstances applying in the 1970's. 
Will the Minister take action to have the Act amended so as to permit specialist groups to be represented on the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness. 
I do not intend to speak at great length because the various points have been canvassed freely by honourable senators on both sides of the Senate and because, as was said earlier, some of the thrust has gone out of the debate since it has become evident that 4 weeks annual leave is going to be granted without limitation. However I was prompted to rise in my place in order to put the record right in one or two respects. The first thing is a statement made by  Senator Greenwood  when introducing this debate but I propose to deal with it later on. Before proceeding with my argument I want to refer to a remark made by  Senator Carrick  last night.  His  remark contained a hidden criticism. I read from page 172 of Hansard where  Senator Carrick  is reported as having said: 

 Mr President, I do not know whether you know about genetic sports and mutations, but an honourable senator who sits appropriately on my left is the very embodiment of sport. That is the only question he has ever raised. I think he -is the only genetic mutation that the Labor Party has produced in my time here. 
I appreciate the honourable senator's description of me as the embodiment of sport, particularly as there is now in the Commonwealth sphere a Ministry of Sport or, to put it more correctly, a Ministry of Tourism and Recreation. I take that as being a different term from 'genetic sport' or 'mutation*. I would like to remind  Senator Carrick  that without sports or mutations we would have no geniuses. There would be no freak phenomenal abilities in the world. We would not have developed past the arrival level of our ape-like ancestors. So I do not mind being regarded as a sport in that sense too. 

 Senator Carrick also made some reference to the effect that the only subject J have raised in this chamber is the subject of sport. I have been a member of this Senate for 18 months. All honourable senators have access to the research section of the Parliamentary Library. Any honourable senator who cares to make inquiries there will find that during that time I have asked questions on and made contributions in the chamber about such a variety of subjects that 1 can feel justifiably proud of my efforts. I hope that  Senator Carrick  can feel equally as proud of his record as I am of mine. 1 have spoken on many subjects in this chamber. I do not know what inspired  Senator Carrick  to denigrate himself by making such undignified attacks on some honourable senators. I do not know whether I have disappointed him by not taking part in the debates on subjects on which I must admit he does dilate with some ability and some knowledge and after a lot of research. I refer to, in particular, the subjects of abortion, homosexuality, marihuana and pornography. I know that be does debate those subjects with ability. I have not taken part in such debates. I do not know whether I have disappointed him because I have not taken part in them, but I am afraid he will have to remain disappointed because I leave those conscience subjects to the people who feel that they have a scholarly experience and ability to deal with them. 
I would rather give my attention to advocating and pressing in this chamber the great humanitarian issues on which the Australian Labor Party is eager to act in the lifetime of this Parliament, and particularly in this session. It has a lot to do to catch up on the lag that has resulted from 23 years of anti-Labor government of this country. I can understand the reason for the disappointment and hatred that Opposition senators express towards the trade union movement. They seem to be jealous and angry that the trade union movement wholeheartedly supports physically and financially the Australian Labor Party. If ever there was to be a change in the attitude of the trade union movement - I hope that never comes about - and it shifted its allegiance from the Australian Labor Party to the Tories, I wonder what the attitude of honourable senators opposite would be. I suppose it would be a different situation entirely if they were in receipt of the physical and financial support that the trade union movement now gives to the great Australian Labor Party. Their attitudes would change overnight and we would have them putting on shining armour, mounting a prancing steed and becoming the champions of the trade union movement. They would change their attitude overnight from one of bitterness and hatred to one of glorification. I believe that honourable senators opposite are jealous of the support that the trade union movement gives and will continue to give to the great Australian Labor Party. 
I can also understand the disappointment of the Opposition at not thinking of including a promise to grant 4 weeks annual leave to Commonwealth public servants in its election policy speech. Now that it has seen the huge success that rewarded the foresight of the Australian Labor Party in including this plank in its policy platform it is no wonder that the Opposition is disappointed. 1 can understand the disappointment of honourable senators opposite on those 2 scores. But the one thing which I cannot understand is their opposition to the decision of the Australian Labor Party to limit the granting of 4 weeks annual leave to certain people. I do not think that they are sincere in their opposition. At a later stage I intend to deal with that aspect in depth. 
As 1 said earlier, I was really prompted to rise in my place to refute one or two of the allegations that have been made in the debate by honourable senators opposite. To put the record straight I think I should briefly trace the history of the decision to grant 4 weeks annual leave. I understand that the decision arose from Cabinet Minute No. 4 of 20th December 1972 in which the Cabinet agreed that the department could assume that any officer or employee was a member of a recognised organisation until such time as the recognised organisation advised the department that the officer or employee was not a member, at which time the department was to call upon the officer or employee to produce proof of his membership of the recognised organisation. I believe that that is a reasonable manner in which to qualify for an additional week's annual leave. If one is to enjoy the facilities or benefits that an organisation can offer it is a logical prerequisite that one should take out membership before doing so. As honourable senators on this side of the chamber have explained quite simply, clearly and at length to honourable senators opposite on numerous occasions, what has been suggested here is nothing new; it is happening in every other organisation around us. I thought  Senator Brown  put a very lucid case when he pointed out that to join a voluntary health organisation one has to take out a subscription. I have had a long association with various organisations in the community and I know that nobody can benefit from or enjoy the facilities of any of them without having met the prerequisite of taking out membership. 
I do not think it is fair for the Opposition to claim that it is unreasonable for an organisation which has negotiated at some expense to bring about the granting of benefits to say that before people can receive those benefits they must subscribe something towards meeting the expense of those negotiations. It has been said in this chamber that the decision to grant 4 weeks annual leave did not come about by negotiation but that it was a handout by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his election policy speech. Surely to goodness honourable senators opposite are not sincere in that assumption. Surely as experienced parliamentarians they would know that lead-up work is required in these matters. Negotiations went on between the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations and the Council of Public Service Organisations - 2 unions which are not even affiliated with the Australian .Labor Party - for a considerable period on this matter. It is only common sense to assume that certain financial expenses must have been incurred. Is that not fair and bonny play? 
I notice that  Senator Greenwood  is nodding his head. The inference is that something has been given to the fighting fund of the Australian Labor Party. That is not the thought I had. I will leave that for the time being and appeal to his common sense to realise that there must be some expense involved in travelling to and from Canberra and being accommodated overnight as well as employing someone to perform clerical duties. Those expenses must be met in order to obtain concessions. A lot of expense is involved. Surely those people who have not contributed anything towards these associations are not entitled to receive the same benefits as those people who have contributed. But, as I said earlier, this matter has been freely .canvassed by my colleagues. 
The situation that is of extreme concern to me is the role that the Commonwealth Public Service Board has played in this matter. Despite the decision that Cabinet brought down on 20th December that public servants would be entitled to an extra week's annual leave under certain conditions the Commonwealth Public Service Board issued a circular on 13th February 1973 titled 'Quantum of Annual Leave - Determinations 23-29 1973'. So that I will have the record right for future research and for wide distribution I will read the relevant paragraph of a letter headed Quantum of Annual Leave - Determinations 23-29/1973'. The letter states: 
In particular, I refer to Point 10, part (b) and (c) on page 3 which read as follows: 
that the officer or employee is a member of the organisation which is the claimants) to the relevant determination, and 
that the officer or employee was a member of that organisation (i) on the date of accrual of the leave, 1st January 1973 in the case of permanent officers and the individual date of annual accrual (on or after 1st January 1973) in the case of employees, and so on, or (ii) in respect of pro rata leave payments on the date of termination of employment. 
Honourable senators on this side of the chamber are concerned at that decision - I feel that honourable senators opposite should express some concern about it - because the effect of the Public Service Board's decision would have been to exclude from the extra week's annual leave benefit union members who joined their union after 1st January 1973. This exclusion was not the Government's intention or the Cabinet's intention when it circularised the minute. I understand that when the determination was made  Mr Harold  Souter of the ACTU,  Mr Williams  of ACSPA and  Mr Munro  of the CCPSO contacted the Minister and expressed concern about the Public Service Board's decision. At that time the organisations indicated that they would seek legal opinion on the decision. 
Unfortunately, as has been stated, it will not be necessary to seek legal opinion on the determination, but it will be hand)' for future reference. 
It is true that the Board and representatives of the unions bad discussions and agreed to certain variations of the Cabinet minute, but those variations had no relationship to the extra week's annual leave. They were in relation to the mechanics regarding the application of the extra week's annual leave. At page 113 of Hansard of 1st March 1973  Senator Greenwood  is reported as having said: 
So the new dispensation is not available to those who wished to join a union after 1st January,. I would like to know from members of the Labor Party how they can justify a provision whereby people .who were members of a union before 1st January can get 4 weeks annual leave but persons who joined after 1st January will not be entitled to 4 weeks annual leave. 
He asked how the Labor Party could justify this provision. I interjected: 
That is not right. 

 Senator Greenwood said: 
You check the record and ask your master in the other place. I assure you that he will tell you that that is what the determination of the Public Service Board has been, notwithstanding that it has brought forth very strong protests from  Mr Clyde  Cameron. 
The latter part of that statement is quite right, but I take the whole statement as a challenge by  Senator Greenwood  to the Labor Party to deny that it is advocating this proposition. At the time of that statement by  Senator Greenwood  the original decision, as far as the Labor Party was concerned, had to stand. The resolve of the Australian Labor Party was that ali employees would be assumed to have been members of the appropriate union at all times unless the Board were otherwise advised by the union. I understand that many points regarding principles still have to be worked out. When  Senator Greenwood  spoke in support of his motion the ALP intended to stand steadfastly by its resolve that all employees would be assumed to be members of recognised organisations until those organisations had advised it otherwise. It was said that this stand was blackmail to get funds for the ALP. For the edification of honourable senators opposite, the 2 unions whose membership increased as a result of the Cabinet decision are not affiliated with the ALP. I feel that  Senator Greenwood  was unjust and unfair in not admitting that. He tried to swing the facts around and say that the trade unions concerned, through their affiliation fees, would be giving finance to the ALP. 
The Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations and the Commonwealth Council of Public Service Organisations. They we're the 2 unions whose membership increased considerably. Neither of them is affiliated with the ALP. The union which  Senator McManus  should be supporting and which did very well out of the exercise is the Federated Clerks Union. 1 am confounded and bewildered by his stand. He has been a champion of that union for a long time. He has not acted loyally to that union. 
 At the outset I would like to say how deeply sensitive I am of the honour that is mine in being afforded the opportunity to second the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply. I feel that the honour is due more to Queensland, the State that I am proud to represent in this chamber, than to me personally. I am aware also that there are other honourable senators in this chamber who no doubt would be more adequate than I to handle this occasion. Nevertheless, I approach it with a great deal of confidence because, having heard the Speech delivered by  His Excellency,  one could not fail to believe that we are on the eve of a most exciting period, a most useful period and a period of great change. 
Honourable senators will recall that during his Speech  His Excellency  intimated to the assembly that the Government was embarking on a period of great change and would be basing its program on 4 principal grounds. I feel that at this stage it would be opportune to relate again those 4 grounds of approach to the Senate, so that they can be recorded in Hansard for future research and so that they may be given the widest circulation. The first of the 4 principal grounds upon which he said the Government was basing its program for change was the manifest desire of large sections of the Australian community, particularly the youthful majority, for a more tolerant, more open, more humane, more equal, yet more diverse society. The second ground of approach was the clear failure, of existing social and economic structures to meet the needs of modern society, particularly in relation to education, social security, health, industrial relations and urban and regional development. The third ground of approach was the need for government, and principally the national government, to have available machinery and advice to plan for the inevitable and accelerating change now occurring in all modern communities. The, fourth ground of approach was recognition of new and momentous directions in the pattern of international relations, particularly in the region in which Australia's future lies. It will be recalled that  His Excellency  said in his address that this was the most comprehensive program of legislation in the history of the Australian Parliament. 
I quite appreciate that there will be a section of the community - indeed, there, will be a section of the Parliament- which will be opposed to some of the measures which will be advanced by this Government. But this is not strange, because one can recall that even in the early days of Federation there was violent dissent by some members of Parliament against the legislation that was at that time placed before the people. Disputation in regard to change has been a characteristic of Australia's history. Most people react against change. I know from my own interests in community affairs and even from interests outside this Parliament that people seem to resist change, even though that change is not Of a revolutionary nature. But the redeeming point about it all is that once the reform has been brought about the majority of people see the wisdom of it and accept it. 
I do not need to remind honourable senators that the Australian Labor Party advocates and crusades for change. I can recall as part of the long history of the Australian Labor Parry and the trade union movement the campaign that was launched by the Australian Labor Party when it opposed the export of pig iron to Japan. I can recall the stand of the Australian Labor Party when it supported Indonesia in its call for independence. I can recall the stand in more recent times of the Australian Labor Party when for 5 or 6 years it crusaded continually for a change in government policy in regard to the phoney war in Vietnam. I am happy to say that history has proved the great Australian Labor Party right on those 3 counts, just as history will again prove the Labor Party to be right in the reform that it is presently seeking before this Parliament. 
I have no doubt that some of the legislation to be introduced will be warmly contested by sections in the community and by sections of the Parliament. We have already seen evidence of honourable senators opposite contesting some of the legislation the Government has endeavoured to introduce so far. Various sections in the community are already anticipating what will be the outcome of this first session of this Parliament. I venture to say that this first session of this Parliament will be the most momentous in the history of the Australian Federation, and it will be so because, with the advent of a Labor Government, there will be for the first time after 23 years such drastic changes in government policy that the lives of each and every one of us will be affected. 
As I said earlier, change was the theme throughout the Speech delivered by  His Excellency.  The record proves that in the 100 days that this Government has been in power it has achieved more than other governments achieved in the last 23 years. Time will not permit me to deal in depth with the various items: nor is this the occasion. I know that the Senate will afford me the opportunity at a later date to discuss these matters further. We have just heard a very eloquent address by my colleague  Senator Primmer  who capably moved the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply. He very effectively and capably dealt with some of the important items outlined in  His  Excellency's Speech. However, on this occasion I would be remiss if I did not mention some of the great humanitarian issues which are contained in the Speech. 1 refer to the abolition of the means test which will occur during the life of this Parliament. I refer to the fact that all Australians who are entitled to social security payments may receive them wherever they choose to live without reciprocal agreements being made with other governments. There will be twice-yearly increases of $1.50 in the basic pension rate until such time as that rate reaches 25 per cent of the average weekly earnings. A national superannuation scheme will be recommended. A national commission on social welfare will be established to advise the Government on all aspects of social welfare. A universal health insurance scheme will be introduced. 
These are just a few items in a program which must fire the imagination of anyone who has a spark of humanitarianism left in him. To bring about a maximum effort in Australian ownership and control the Government will establish a national pipeline authority. This is the first such venture which has been undertaken by any government since the establishment of the Snowy Mountains Authority. At this stage it is important to recall that when the then Australian Labor Party Government launched the Snowy Mountains Authority scheme which gained world wide recognition the ceremony was boycotted by the official Opposition of the day. That Opposition was of the same political colour as the Opposition which occupies those benches today. Another progressive step in Government policy is that all minerals will be subject to export control. Surely no think* ing person can object to any government - irrespective of its political persuasion - having control of our export minerals. I am astounded at the role which the Australian Country Party is adopting in this matter. Particularly I refer to the Queensland branch of the Country Party which is playing the role of a small, narrow, sectarian unit. This role is epitomised by the narrowest of them all, the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Joh  Bjelke-Petersen. He is setting out to cause nothing but strife and disunity. He is now recognising the Torres Strait islanders, people that he did not know existed in the 6 years he was the Minister responsible for Aboriginal affairs. It is on record in Queensland Hansard that in that period he did not make one speech in the Parliament advocating welfare conditions for them. Now he is making promises to those people which he cannot keep. 
As I previously said, Labor in the 100 days it has been in office has achieved more than the previous governments achieved in 23 years. However, 1 assure the people of Queensland that the interests of that great State will not be jeopardised by the intemperate remarks made by their Premier who, at the moment, is referred to by a large section of the electorate - this is something to which I do not entirely subscribe because I have respect for the high office of Premier of the State which he occupies - as the peanut king from Kingaroy. It does not do me good as a Queenslander to know that a healthy section of the electorate refers to him in that way. Let us examine some of the objections and protests which he is making against the Federal Government. Recently criticism was levelled by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  at the Queensland export of minerals. He challenged the Queensland Government over its very poor performance in relation to the amount it is receiving in royalties from coal. 
Honourable senators know that on three or four previous occasions when I have spoken on the special report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission in regard to Queensland's application in 1971 for special financial assistance I have pointed to certain criticisms made by that Commission of the poor performance of Queensland in relation to royalties it is charging on the minerals it is exporting. 1 pointed out that I was not fired by any party political persuasion on the eve of a State election but was merely quoting the valued opinion of high Treasury officials. In considering the Queensland submission for extra financial assistance they brought down certain findings. One was a very severe criticism of Queensland's poor performance in the field of royalties. So that the record will be straight I quote from page 11, paragraph 24, of the Commonwealth Grants Commission Special Report 1972 which states: 
The Commonwealth Treasury suggested that the value of mining output might give some indication of capacity to raise mining royalties. This would suggest that Queensland's capacity is above standard; and as the royalties collected per head of population in Queensland are below the average per capita for the standard States it would appear that Queensland makes a relatively low effort in this Held. 
It is pure humbug and rot for the Queensland Premier to say that the attack on the Queensland Government is inspired by a Minister who represents the mining area of Wollongong. Before the Minister ever drew the attention of the national Parliament to Queensland's performance in royalties it was there in black and white in that Special Report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission in 1972. One cannot help but wonder why the Queensland Government has not responded to this criticism from the Treasury officials and responsible Ministers in the national Parliament. I cannot help but think that there must be some grounds for the argument which is being advanced in Queensland today that when the Queensland Government entered into agreements with overseas countries for the export of minerals it purposely accepted low royalties and asked the countries with which it was negotiating to balance the payments by paying the Queensland Government high freight rates on the minerals which are transported from where they are mined to the port from which they are exported. By doing this the revenue would be tucked away and hidden in the balance sheets of the Queensland Railway Department. When Queensland was making application to the Commonwealth for special financial assistance under the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act this information would be hidden from the commissioners and it would allow Queensland's case to be falsified. As the information would be hidden from the commissioners it would not affect the final grant which would be given by the Commission to Queensland. If this is so it may be argued that it is good politics on the part of the Queensland Government. But, after all, it is deluding the national Parliament which is paying the bills by granting the money. I think that the Premier in his own interests, and in the interests of the Government which he leads, the Parliament of Queensland and the national Parliament to which he is making his application for special financial assistance should make public the agreements which have been entered into between Queensland and the overseas countries which are buying our minerals. If these agreements were tabled they would be readily available for everyone to see and we would be able to tell whether these claims regarding freight rates are correct. It is no good for  Senator Wright  to shake his head and look with disgust. Honourable senators will recall that many times I have appealed in this chamber to Country Party senators, when I have exposed in this Parliament that the Queensland Government enters into confidential concessional rates with certain business houses, to help me with my requests to the Queensland Premier and to the Queensland Government. I said that until 1957 when a Labor Government was in office these concession rates were advertised in the Railways Weekly Notice or placed on the notice board for everybody to see but with the advent of the LiberalCountry Party Government in 1957 this practice was discontinued. Consequently those rates have become known as confidential concessional freight rates. The Commonwealth 
Grants Commission did make some mention of this. I then appealed to the Queensland Premier. Three years ago, as a result of agitation by Country Party people throughout Queensland regarding the inequality in freight rates and to pacify them on the eve of the election held 3 years before the last election, the Premier of Queensland brought in a firm of management consultants named Beckingsale Management Services Pty Ltd. That firm was commissioned to make an inquiry into freight rates operating in Queensland. It brought down its findings over 12 months ago but despite requests in this chamber and in the Queensland Parliament and by people outside the Parliament, the Queensland Premier and his Government have remained silent. To this day that report has never been tabled. If the Queensland Government will act in such a manner in relation to a report from a management consultant firm, then even though I am an incorrigible optimist I do not look forward with confidence to that Government tabling agreements regarding freight rates it has entered into with overseas countries for the transport of minerals from the point where they are mined to the point of export. 
The honourable senator asks me how that can possibly be concealed from the Commonwealth's Grants Commission. 
If an arrangement has been entered into that for accepting low royalty rates high freight rates will be paid and that is thrown into the overall general revenue of the Railways Department, it would appear in the application to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. The Queensland Government's submission would be based on its performance regarding revenue derived from railway freight in Queensland.  Senator Wright  has asked me a fair question. So rather than waste the time of the Senate, I seek leave of the Senate to have incorporated in Hansard paragraphs 14,15 and 16 contained on pages 8 and 9 of the Commonwealth Grants Commission's special report of 1972. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Poke)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
Railway Charges 
Queensland claimed that 'the Railway schedule of freights and fares in Queensland is considerably higher per ton mile than the standard States, based on calculations made by the Treasury over a number of commodities carried different distances in various States'. It claimed, that although it was not able to introduce any form of weighting into the calculations, 'the large number of calculations for different commodities and distances could be expected to iron out chance fluctuations', and 'taking the average of the ratios of Queensland's rates to the average of the other two States indicates Queensland's rates are some 13 per cent above the Standard States'. Commenting on this comparison, the Queensland submission stated: 'It is realised that a considerable proportion of rail freight is carried at contract rates for which details are not available, but it may be assumed that a similar relationship exists in contract rates and that the comparison we have made reflects the general levels of freight rates.' 
Queensland supported its general contention that its freight rates are higher per ton mile than in the standard States by a comparison of railway operating surpluses in recent years in the light of the comparative difficulties under which the Queensland railways operate. These difficulties were exemplified by statistics shown in Table 20 in Appendix C of the Commission's 38th Report. They included a route mileage in relation to population which is 2.5 times the standard State average; a figure for goods and livestock carried per route mile which is only 52 per cent of the average tonnage for the standard States; and railway employment which relative to population was 49 per cent above the standard State average. Despite these difficulties Queensland's per capita operating surplus, for the period from 1967-68 to 1969-70 shown in the table, was $5.88 per capita compared with an average of $1.71 for New South Wales and Victoria. 
Queensland submitted that it should receive  a  favourable adjustment for its above-standard level of rail freights of an amount at least sufficient to offset the estimated unfavourable adjustment of $9.7m on account of below-standard severity of State taxation. Its estimate that Queensland's rates are 13 per cent above standard would imply a favourable adjustment of $14m. In assessing the 'minimum' special grant of $10.5m claimed for 1971-72 it had not taken into account any favourable adjustment for railway charges. 
I hope that, when  Senator Wright  reads what I have said has been suggested in Queensland and when he reads the general comments on Queensland's submission on railway freights, he will be able to read into them the possibility that what I have said could be happening. I have not dealt at length with the important matters. I have gone further than I meant to go in relation to the freight submissions. I think it is an important submission and I hope that later when the Commonwealth Grants Commission report is tabled I will be able to speak on it again. 
I did not want to speak at length on some items, but I do want to say that the State Parliaments still have their sovereign powers and it is important for the national Parliament and equally important for the States to realise that we must co-operate heartily with one another if the national programs for development which we envisage are to be carried out. We all know it is unfortunate that the Commonwealth Parliament has not been able to reach the zenith of its powers. When federation was brought about in 1901, those who brought it about hoped that the people generally, once they got used to the federal system would gradually clothe the national Parliament with more authority. But whether for good or ill, it has not been satisfactorily brought about. Therefore we still have to depend on State parliaments and State governments to co-operate with the national Government and the national Parliament if national policies are to be implemented. I was pleased to read in the Speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General that the Government intended to co-operate with the governments of the various States in regard to many of these important matters. Of course in  His  Excellency's Speech there were other proposals in relation to which the national Parliament can go it alone - and no doubt some of them; as I said earlier, will be opposed by honourable senators opposite. 
I should at this stage make some mention of the powers and function of the Parliament. I believe that the powers and function of the Parliament should transcend any Party political considerations. All Australians pin their faith on their parliamentary system and on the power of their representatives, and they are very jealous of their heritage. They are able to recall their representatives should they do things of which the people do not approve. It is dangerous to tell the people that a parliament will exceed its constitutional powers. I point out to people, and particularly to the Premier of Queensland, that the Constitution has given Parliament authority to make laws in certain directions beyond the limits of State control. These powers have been conferred upon the Parliament; they have not been conferred on any Party political organisation. Yet there are men in the community who, to gain some slight political advantage, are prepared to inflame the minds of the people by suggesting that the Government will exceed its authority and will flout the expressed will of the people. 
My colleague  Senator Georges,  when speaking in the Torres Strait Islands debate, called upon the Premier of Queensland to table advice regarding the shares he holds in a company named Exoil Australia Ltd., a company which the senator believed had lodged an application to explore for oil in the Gulf of Papua. It has since been disclosed that the Queensland Premier is a big shareholder in that company, but the company itself has advised that it is no longer an applicant for the right to explore for oil in that area. 
That is to credit. I am correcting what was said recently in this chamber. However, 6 companies are applicants for the right to explore for oil in the Gulf of Papua - and their applications are locked in a safe in the Executive Building awaiting the findings of the royal commission on oil drilling in the Great Barrier Reef. I will now make another request of the Queensland Premier: Will he disclose to the Queensland people whether he is a shareholder in any of the 6 other companies that have applied for the rights to explore for oil in the Gulf of Papua? If he is not, he has nothing to hide. All he has to do is tell the people of Queensland that he is not. 
Before concluding, 1 want to make some remarks about allegations that were made by  Senator Byrne  when he was speaking in the debate concerning the Torres Strait islands. He spoke with great dramatics. I was surprised at this because I have known him for a long time and I have a lot of respect for him. I feel that he is an intelligent enough senator not to indulge in denigration, dramatics and the challenging of his fellow honourable senators who sit opposite him to stand in their places and be counted. This was offensive to me. Whatever shortcomings I might have, one of them is not a lack of moral courage. If ever I have made a statement I have stood by what I have said, or if I have been proven wrong, I have apologised. One of my shortcomings is not a lack of moral courage. I thought that it was offensive for  Senator Byrne  to look over at honourable senators on this side of the chamber and ask with great dramatics where Queensland senators would stand in this matter. He challenged us to stand up and be counted. I just want to remind  Senator Byrne  that there are honourable senators on this side of the Senate, particularly Queenslanders, who are not afraid to be counted nor to say where their allegiance lies in regard to their State or country. In a practical performance about 1939 when a bugle was sounded, they answered it. They did that in a more practical manner than by means of verbiage in the Senate chamber. They showed their allegiance to their State and country. Another bugle was sounded in 1957.  Senator Byrne  heard that one, but he turned his back on it and went the other way. 
His Excellency the Governor-General said in his Speech, in outlining the measures that the Government proposed to take: 
The Government recognises that the use of leisure in a modern society presents problems and opportunities involving profound questions of the relations between man and his community - 
He went on to say that it was proposed to build community centres based upon schools and to grant youth leadership courses. This brings me to raise the point that my colleague,  Senator Primmer,  mentioned earlier. It is that all cannot be achieved in one day. I realise that, as  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral said, this is the most comprehensive program of legislation ever introduced in the history of Australia. They are the words used by the Governor-General, not by any biased party politician. They were used by no lesser person than  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral. He said that it was the most comprehensive program of legislation in the history of Australia and I accept his assurances. 
As I said, I know that everything cannot be achieved at once. But I have a couple of requests that are pretty close to my heart that I have been pressing in the Parliament for some time. I know that Cabinet, in its wisdom, evaluates and considers the various policies that have to be introduced on their merit. But I hope that in future the Cabinet will give some serious consideration to upgrading and reconstituting the National Fitness Council of Australia. This Council was introduced in 1939 as a war time measure. It did a remarkable and magnificent job in achieving all its objectives. What I have, to say is in no way to be taken as a reflection on the long line of successive officers and members of the Council who have served with it up to the present time. They have all done a magnificent job with the machinery at their disposal. But the Council is not geared to meet the requirements of the 1970s. 
Australia is a country that is very comparable with the United States of America. That country had the same problem. In 1961 the late  President  John F. Kennedy constituted the President's National Fitness Council. But by 1970 it was found to be inadequate. It was upgraded and reconstituted as a committee of 14 under the chairmanship of astronaut James Lovell. I am not suggesting that we have an astronaut to chair our Council in Australia, although I point out that some Opposition senators go into orbit now and again. Of the 13 remaining members of the committee, 6 were specialists in the field of national fitness. We have an abundance of talent in Australia - men who have made their mark on a national and international level by their energies and efforts through activity medicine or through the Australian Sports Medicine Association. I seriously suggest to Ministers in the Senate that they suggest to their colleagues in the Cabinet that serious consideration be given in the near future to upgrading and reconstituting the National Fitness Council of Australia so that it can function in accordance with the requirements of the 1970s. 
Other items I would like to mention briefly concern tourism. I commend 4 points to the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart).  I hope that in the very near future he will be able to place these requests before the Cabinet for its urgent and favourable consideration. I feel that special assistance should be given to local authorities in tourist areas where the local ratepayers provide the facilities for tourists and get no relief from the rates that they pay. I feel that the depreciation of new buildings and the maintenance and renovation of tourist buildings should be an allowable tax deduction as is the case in Pacific areas which are our greatest competitors in this field. I feel that a tourist development fund should be established along similar lines to the one already operating in New Zealand. Finally, I believe that the Australian National Line should use its passenger ships for tourist cruises to north Queensland in the winter months. As I said earlier, I know that all these things cannot be done overnight. The Government has embarked upon a legislative program that has created new records in the history of government in this country. I know that as a matter of commonsense, being an attentive Government, it will consider these matters in the future. 
In conclusion, I believe I express the sentiments of all honourable senators when 1 say that we can visualise big things ahead and that everyone, regardless of political party, will give the best attention to these tasks. Someone in the chamber has suggested that I may be wrong in taking that view. If I am wrong it will be only because since the beginning of the world there has always been some effort by people to prevent progress. However, out of the collective wisdom of this Parliament 1 am certain that we will make progress. At any rate, the Parliament contains sufficient members to overcome any obstruction that may arise. We on this side of the Senate, at any rate, shall nail our sail to the mast. I trust that as a result of our deliberations we shall progress towards the fulfilment of the great destiny awaiting this young country. 
 My question, which is directed to the Attorney-General, follows the advice which he gave to the Senate earlier that the Commonwealth Government passed to the Queensland Government information which now can be related to the bombing of the Whisky Au Go-Go nightclub. 
Is the Attorney-General prepared to tell the Senate to whom and when the information was given? 
The Bill before the Senate is designed to amend the Social Services Act in order to provide for welcome increases in age and invalid pensions and unemployment and sickness benefits. The Austraiian Labor Party, running true to form and always honouring its promises, said in its policy speech that it would introduce these measures which would give a rise of $1.50 a week in the basic pension rate and again in the spring and in the autumn sessions until such time as the basic pension rate reaches 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings. As I said, the Australian Labor Party, running true to form, on the first day of business in the life of the new Parliament introduced the legislation which is now before the Senate, and it is the intention of honourable senators on this side of the chamber not to speak at length on this measure because its speedy passage through the chamber will allow pensioners to receive this benefit as soon as possible. The Bill also provides that the increases will be retrospective to the first full pay period after 2nd December last - again keeping an election promise. 

 Senator Rae in his speech said that the Government is not honouring its promise because it had stated in its policy speech that it would introduce the amendments immediately. He is an experienced senator and a lawyer, and he knows that amendments to the Social Services Act require legislation. The Government has acted in the best interests of all concerned in introducing this measure as speedily as possible. Another thing on which the Government has given an assurance is that while it is the Government - and this will be for many years - the pension rate will never again fall below 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  in the other place said that even if there was no rise in the average weekly earnings, the pension rate would be increased so that the promise of granting a $1.50 a week increase in pensions in the spring and autumn sessions of the Parliament would be honoured. This is in sharp contrast to the performance of the Liberal-Country Party coalition governments. When they were in office we used to hear, on the eve of an election, reference to a 50c a week rise in pensions. 
Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting 1 had said that honourable  senators  on this side of the chamber wished to see this legislation pass quickly through the Senate so that social service recipients would have the early benefit of the improvements it contains. Possibly the legislation does not go far enough as we cannot ever do enough for the people who have retired after a lifetime of service to the country and are looking for a dignified way of life. It has been calculated that the pension increases envisaged in the Bill will cost about $58m this year and that increases in unemployment and sickness benefits will cost about $8.7m this year. The wonderful thing about it all is that the people of Australia can look forward confident in the knowledge that while a Labor Government is in power they will be treated with the respect and sympathy to which they are entitled as citizens of this country. 
They have confidence because they do not share the dismal view of  Senator Rae.  He talked about inflation and joined the prophets of gloom who see nothing good in the economy and say that we are spending money too freely. He is not in step with the financial experts of the Australia and New Zealand banking group, the manager of which recently said that the currency was more buoyant than it had been at any other period in the last 4 years. The people of Australia are intelligent and have common sense. They do not share  Senator Rae's  dismal views. A recent poll conducted by Australian Nationwide Opinion Polls, the results of which were announced last weekend, and the result of the South Australian elections last weekend completely vindicate the policies that this Government is pursuing. 
In speaking in the Address-in- Reply debate 1 said that this Government has achieved more in 100 days of office than any of its predecessors achieved in the previous 23 years. I repeat, despite the criticism levelled at me by  Senator Withers,  that  His Excellency  said in his Speech that we are embarking upon the most comprehensive legislative program in the history of this country. The public opinion poll results published last weekend completely vindicate the progressive and humanitarian approach of the Government to these very important matters. 
The Bill before the Senate corrects many anomalies and serious injustices which were created and aggravated by Liberal and Country Party coalition governments over the last 23 years. I want to congratulate  Senator Douglas  McClelland, the Minister for the Media, who represents the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  in the Senate, on his excellent second reading speech. Not only did he deliver it in a very capable manner; but the contents of his speech were most illuminating. Because this measure is progressive and humanitarian it can do nothing but benefit the great majority of Australians. The Minister said that certain serious injustices and anomalies had to be corrected and indicated that the Bill would provide very generous increases in all pensions and in the unemployment and sickness benefit rates. 
The increases range from $1.50 a week to $14 a week and contrast greatly with the increases in pension rates we were educated to expect from the previous Government. Its policy was to increase pensions by a max imum of 50c a week and such increases were always dangled as a political carrot before electors on the eve of an election in an endeavour to win votes for themselves. Our progressive policy is in deep contrast with the miserable and dismal performances of our predecessors, as is highlighted by the fact that between October 1961 and October 1964 married pensioner couples received no increase whatever in their pension rates. Between October 1964 and October 1968 the increases for married couple pensioners totalled 75c a week. Our opponents, during their period in office, accepted the consumer price index as the measuring stick on which to calculate pension increases. A quick calculation on that basis will show that our predecessors granted to pensioners half the increases that they should have received. Pensioners have never caught up and the previous Government had no intention of their catching up. 
The greatest thing that has ever happened to the pensioners of this country is the return of the Australian Labor Party to the Treasury bench. While I am referring to the alleged generosity to pensioners of the previous Government I should point out that between 1950 and 1970 the average increase in weekly pensions granted to married pensioners was 52.5 cents, and to single pensioners 43.5 cents. Any thinking person with humanitarian instincts could only describe that situation as nothing short of miserable and in no way calculated to help pensioners overcome the difficulties in which they found themselves. 
What is this Government going to do about it? Already it has clearly indicated that it will make substantial increases and improvements in the circumstances of social service beneficiaries. The people know our intentions regarding pensions. It is well known to the electors that the ALP intends to tie the basic pension rate to average weekly earnings. When that result is achieved, never again will the basic pension rate fall below 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. The Government is increasing the basic pension rate by $1.50 a week and has pledged that it will make regular increases to pensions during the autumn and spring sessions of Parliament until the basic pension rate equals 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  supported by Cabinet and the Parliamentary Labor Party, has pledged to the people of Australia that never while a Labor government  is  in office - and that will be for many years to come - will the basic pension rate fall below 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. We have honoured our promise and this is in sharp contrast to the promises of our opponents. 1 can recall that in 1949 when the antiLabor Parties were endeavouring to gain office they made promises to the people, among them being that they would put value back into the pound. How often did we hear that? They promised that they would abolish the means test for social services, but in 23 years in office our opponents did nothing whatever to abolish the means test. They must stand condemned in the eyes of the people of Australia as members of a political party that has completely repudiated its election promises of 1949. 
They will not hoodwink us by saying that they will do something about it now. I can remember when former Prime Minister John Gorton visited Brisbane in July 1969 and addressed an assembly of women belonging to a section of the Liberal Party. He told them in no mean manner that his Government had no intention of abolishing the means test at that time or at any future time while he was Prime Minister.  His  stand was supported by his successor as Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon.  and by  Mr Wentworth  as Minister for Social Services.  Mr Wentworth  occupied that post for many years but did nothing in that time about abolishing the means test. 
What do we hear now in the other place? When this measure was debated there members of the Opposition said that the Government should not delay for the 3 years lifetime of this Parliament. We have promised to abolish the means test, but they are imploring the Government to abolish it in the 1973 Budget. What hypocrisy! This comes from a party which promised to do it in 1949 and never did one stroke towards even a gradual abolition of the means test, lt has the effrontery now to call upon the Australian Labor Party to abolish the means test in the 1973 Budget. The Bill also honours another election promise of the Labor Party in that the class B and class C widow pensions will be brought into line with the pension payable to class A widows, namely, $21.50. a week. What did the previous Government do? It treated some widow pensioners as second and third class citizens and paid them $2.75 less than the pension that it paid to class A widow pensioners. I am very happy to say that the Australian Labor Party has placed all widow pensioners in the same category. These pensioners will be paid $21.50 a week, which represents an increase of $4.50 in the pensions of class B and class C widows. 
The Government also has taken the opportunity to adjust the anomalies and serious injustices that appear in unemployment and sickness benefits. It is well known that honourable senators opposite have no time for the unemployed or those unfortunate people who, through no fault of their own, find themselves in necessitous circumstances and thrown on to the labour market. I have heard some honourable senators opposite express these views. They would like to place these unfortunate people in the category of people who would prefer to remain voluntarily unemployable. 
I am not referring to  Senator McManus.  I give him credit for having some humanitarian instincts left in him. But I have heard some honourable senators opposite say that there are in the community people who want to remain voluntarily unemployable. It is true that there may be a few people who pass into this category; but I know from personal experience, from interviewing people in my office and from speaking to people I run into and who make requests for help, that there are many people who are unjustly placed in this category. They are in an unfortunate position which receives particular attention before they are accepted for the unemployment benefit. I am happy to say that this Government is genuinely doing something about this situation. The previous Government stands condemned because in the 23 years for which it was in control it failed to take any action to help these poor unfortunate people. 
Under the Act as it stands at the moment, with the exception of those people who receive 6 weeks of continuous sickness payments, 18 and 19-year-olds who are out of work through sickness or because they are unable to find employment are entitled to receive $11 a week, while 16 and 17-year-olds in similar circumstances are entitled to receive $7.50 a week. 1 have never been able to understand why a boy or girl of 17 years of age is expected to live on $3.50 a week less than a boy or girl of 18 years of age. That was the type of thinking that was foisted upon us by the Liberal-Country Party Government for 23 years. Why that state of affairs was allowed to exist is beyond my comprehension. When the royal assent is given to this Bill, which was introduced into this chamber by  Senator Douglas  McClelland, the juniors to whom 1 have referred - the 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20-year-olds - will all receive S21.50 a week from this Australian Labor Party Government. This represents an increase of $14 a week for 16 and 17-year- olds and $10.50 a week for 18, 19 and 20- year-olds and is further proof of the miserable attitude displayed by honourable senators opposite when they were in government. The unmarried adult or the minor who has no parent in Australia receives $17 a week under the existing Act but when the royal assent is given to the Bill now before the Senate he will receive an increase of $4.50 a week which will increase his payment to $21.50. 
Before I conclude let me refer to an election promise that was made by the then Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon.  He did not make any specific promise of a pension increase, but he did promise the electors of Australia that if his Government was returned there would be pension increases in line with increases in the consumer price index and that there would be 6-monthly automatic adjustments. I want the Senate to ponder that for a moment. The Australian Labor Party said that if it was elected it would tie the basic pension rate at 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. In the 10-year period 1961- 62 to 1971-72 the increase in the consumer price index was 30.6 per cent while the increase in average weekly earnings was 95.8 per cent. Taking $20 as the mean, if the pension had been increased in line with increases in the consumer price index over that 10-year period, that $20 would have increased to $27.68. But if average weekly earnings had been used as the basis for increases - the philosophy advocated by the Australian Labor Party - that $20 would have increased to $38.12, or over $12 more than under the other system. That shows the sort of trick which the previous Government was playing on the people of this country. I am pleased to say that its reign has been brought to an end and that the, Australian Labor Party has been allowed to occupy the treasury bench and deal with the tremendous backlog that developed over the 23 years the previous Government was in office. 
I hope that in the future consideration will be given by the Minister to doing something for the pensioner in the 60 to 70 years age group, the person who has retired after 50 or more years of service as a worker. Such people to whom I speak find it increasingly difficult to make ends meet. They should be given some financial assistance in addition to the basic pension to allow them to cope with this transition from full employment to retirement. I know that everything cannot be achieved at once. There is wonderful humanitarian legislation contained in the Bill before the Senate and I know that the Minister will give consideration to the suggestion I have made because he has a deep interest in the welfare of others, particularly those less fortunate than ourselves, and adopts a great humanitarian approach to these matters. Everything cannot be achieved immediately because there is a tremendous backlog to overcome. The Bill before the Senate deserves the full commendation of the Senate and the Minister is to be congratulated on introducing it so early in the session. I sincerely hope that it receives the enthusiastic and unanimous support of all members of the Senate. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Media. I appreciate the Government's policy of noninterference in the affairs of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, but am I given to understand that negotiations are proceeding between the New South Wales Rugby League and the Australian Broadcasting Commission to televise rugby league replays on Saturday evenings? Has the New South Wales Rugby League suggested that portions of some matches should be telecast on Sunday afternoons? Will the Minister use his persuasive powers to request the Australian Broadcasting Commission to come to a reasonable arrangement with the Rugby League to ensure that the greatest game of all is telecast for the benefit of Australian audiences? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of reports that a black ban has been placed on the French vessel 'Descartes', which is at present moored in Western Port Bay?  Is  the Minister able to say whether this action is possibly premature in the light of other reports that some understanding has been reached between the French and Australian governments that nuclear tests will not proceed while the matter of further testing is under discussion between the 2 governments? 
No,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I sat down in deference to you.  I  hope that while  I  am a senator in this chamber  I  will always uphold the dignity of the Chair.  I  think in my maiden speech  I  said that one of the things my father always told me was to have respect for the Chair at meetings. 1 would like to see that example followed by some of the honourable senators opposite. As  I  pointed out, there is an old adage in jurisprudence which should be well known to  Senator Byrne,  namely: 'Justice must not only be done it must also appear to be done'. 
-I know it is irksome to  Senator Gair  and the other honourable senators of the Democratic Labor Party because they were silent about the bombing of the Communist Party headquarters in Brisbane. They probably delighted in the fact, and their only disappointment may have been that the result of the incident was not more tragic. You uphold terrorism and violence when it is against the Communist Party but you do not have the stomach to stand up and try to progress your case and find out who bombed the DLP headquarters and who robbed your kitty. You took it sitting down like the squibs that you always are when the heat is put on you. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTOrder!  Senator McAuliffe,  you say you respect the Chair so will you please address the Chair. 
Yes,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  It is very difficult to resist being provoked by  Senator Gair.  He sits there and interjects in this manner all the time but he will not get up on his feet and take part in the debate. I know he has retired. I do not blame him for being retired. If I am as active as he is when I am more than 70 years of age I will probably want to retire myself. 
I intend to conclude with the remarks that I made earlier. I feel that the former AttorneyGeneral has a case to answer. He has not answered it. He has not met the occasion. I think that the Independent senator,  Senator Negus,  described the situation admirably last evening when he said: 'I am an Independent senator and I have no political axe to grind. I come down strongly on the side of  Senator Murphy  for having the courage and the responsibility to table these documents and to ventilate for the benefit of the people of Australia the advice that was contained in those documents, the existence of which had been vehemently denied and repudiated by the former Attorney-General.' Both the former Attorney-General and the Premier of Queensland apply double standards. They masquerade as the champions of law and order when they talk about draft resisters, the trade union movement, the Australian Labor Party or demonstrators. But when it comes to terrorism and violence they say they do not have enough proof to institute, prosecutions. I gave the Senate an instance this afternoon of a case which actually progressed to the stage of reaching the courts in Brisbane but which, through a technicality, was thrown out. Although the person charged signed a statement confessing that he had bombed the Communist Party headquarters in Brisbane, he was set free by the legal powers in that land. 
I am indebted to  Senator Hannan  for the best six-penn'orth of pantomime that I have seen for a considerable time. The serious aspect is that his contribution had little to recommend it except that it has delayed the Senate in dealing with the comprehensive business that the Government has to bring before the chamber. 1 am reminded of the story told by a great writer about the London cabman. He said that if a London cabman had the sense to introduce sixpenny fares he would gather unto himself in a year a fortune. But he added that if he had the sense to introduce sixpenny fares he would not be a London cabman. The same can be said about the Liberal Party Opposition, particularly  Senator Hannan  and his colleagues. They have engaged in a strategy and a policy of doing nothing but delaying, obstructing or opposing the Government for the sake of opposing. If the Opposition had the sense to alter its strategy and to adopt a policy of support for this Government in bringing before this chamber its comprehensive social reform legislation, it might have some chance of being returned as the Government of Australia. But if Opposition members had that sense they would not be Liberals. 
In recent weeks there has been a serious erosion of Parliamentary debating time, which I do not need to remind honourable senators is precious for so many reasons. Yet the Opposition has devoured our time through lengthy question time sessions. Honourable senators on this side all agree that the lengthy question times have had nothing to recommend them except that they have created records in their length and in the number of questions that have been asked. The  President  was good enough the other day to furnish honourable senators with some statistical information. I think he said that since this session commenced some 600 questions have been asked in this chamber, more than at any time in the history of the Senate. 
I suggest to honourable senators opposite that all that they are doing is testing the patience of honourable senators and placing the  President  under an ordeal to which a person holding his high office should not be subjected. I appeal to honourable senators opposite that in the very near future they should get down to dealing with the serious business that is before this House. As members of a responsible Opposition they have a duty to this Parliament. I sometimes think - I am coming to believe - that they are apt to forget their responsibility as  Her  Majesty's Opposition, which is a more responsible role when we consider that they have a majority in this place. Honourable senators opposite are apt to forget that it is their duty and obligation as an official Opposition to see that good government prevails, that laws are passed and that due consideration is given to enacting legislation. 
Having said that, I am prompted to take part in this debate regarding Croatian terrorism and the activities of extremists. After hearing and reading the facts and the evidence that have been placed before this chamber by  Senator Murphy,  I am seriously concerned and alarmed to think that irrefutable facts have been placed before this Parliament to show that for some considerable time political violence, intimidation and murders have occurred in this country. The evidence contained in the documents - I have taken the time to peruse them - supports this claim and proves the allegations beyond all doubt. 
The other alarming and serious point is that the previous Government, despite the fact that there is evidence that this state of affairs has existed in this country for a considerable time, adopted a curious defeatism or a lack of initiative to do anything about it. I do not think that even the most impartial observer can come down on the side of the Opposition and say that it has any evidence or proof to show that at any time in the last Parliament it acted upon the evidence of violence or terrorism in this country. The Senate heard last night from an independent senator,  Senator Negus.  He has no political axe to grind.  Senator Negus  rose in his place and applauded  Senator Murphy  for having the courage to bring-- 
 Senator Negus.  He applauded  Senator Murphy  for having the courage to bring the facts before this Parliament and to enlighten the electorate of Australia. He said that instead of being discredited,  Senator Murphy  was entitled to be warmly applauded. I have observed for some time what has been going on in the lobbies of the Senate. Another independent senator is being placed under extreme pressure. He is being cultivated by people who did not know for the last 3 months that he existed. I want to say this to them before they start trying to arrange meetings with him in shady corners or in other dark places: They have no hope on God's earth of using extreme pressures on  Senator Townley.  I have only got to know him since I have been a member of the Senate but I have a high respect for him. I think that in regard to this matter he will come down on the side which he thinks is correct after having made an impartial judgment. That is all we on the Government side seek. We do not want to get involved in these intimidatory tactics, or methods of persuasion, or lobbying in various corners to seek numbers. We on this side of the chamber are prepared to let our case rest on the impartiality of the independent senators whom the Opposition is trying to woo. Knowing the respect I have for  Senator Townley  and the independent thought that he applies to all the serious matters that come before this Parlia ment, I know that he will do the right thing and make the decision which he thinks is right. 
I have endeavoured to approach this matter coolly and with consideration. I have not set out to denigrate any particular honourable senator; nor have I adopted an attitude simply because I am sitting on the Government side of the chamber. I have endeavoured to apply cool consideration to the facts placed before the Senate. The thing that has impressed me is that those facts have been supported by documented evidence. I must say to the Senate that I have no doubt whatsoever in my mind, particularly in view of the statements made by the former AttorneyGeneral in the last session of the last Parliament, when he told the Senate that the Commonwealth Police had not been able to discover any evidence of a Croatian revolutionary terrorist organisation. He made that statement - it is recorded in Hansard - in reply to heavy questioning of him by honourable senators who now sit on this side of the chamber. It is printed indelibly in my mind that the former Attorney-General assured this chamber that the Commonwealth Police had told him that there was no evidence of the existence of Croatian terrorist organisations in this country. It is needless for me to say that anyone who has taken the time to go through the documents tabled by the Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy,  will see how ridiculously futile and untrue that statement has been found to be. 
I vividly recall the questions asked of the former Attorney-General by honourable senators now on this side of the chamber, particularly during the period after 16th September 1972 when there were 2 bombing incidents in Sydney. I remember the heavy questioning addressed by my colleague  Senator Douglas  McClelland who, you will recall, on that occasion had to meet his family. Had they been late they might have been victims of the tragedies that resulted from those bombings. He had first-hand information. He asked his questions because of his personal interest as well as from the national interest. Again it was alleged on that occasion, after those bombings, that property and people associated with the Yugoslav community were associated with the incidents. There is no doubt whatsoever in my mind that again the former Attorney-General continually assured the Senate that there was no organised terrorism among the Croatian community in Australia. 
These are the things upon which I base my case.  Senator Greenwood  gave us repeated assurances after lengthy questioning in the last session of the previous Parliament and further intense questioning from my colleagues on this side of the chamber after the bombing incidents in Sydney on 16th September. I am not saying this for any political advantage or for any political objective. I sincerely believe that the former Attorney-General has a case to answer. 
Yesterday I heard him deliver his 30-page statement and last night I read it very carefully. I am sorry to say that I am still unconvinced that he has met the occasion. Unfortunately he chose to take the stand he has taken - for what reasons, God only knows, because he had been warned by his former ministerial colleagues,  Mr William  McMahon,  Mr Philip  Lynch and  Sir Garfield  Barwick. Honourable senators heard my colleague  Senator James  McClelland put forward very tellingly in this chamber yesterday afternoon the evidence that was offered by those 3 ministerial colleagues of the former AttorneyGeneral. He asked all honourable senators opposite to refute it if they could. He challenged them to deny that evidence. Although many honourable senators opposite have since risen in their places, not one of them has yet been prepared to accept the challenge of  Senator James  McClelland. So I can only say that that charge has been proved; warnings of Croatian terrorism in Australia were given to the former Attorney-General. 
Why did not the former Attorney-General accept the advice of his 3 colleagues? What other shortcomings he may have - I am dealing in this instance with him only on his approach to terrorism and violence in Australia and his fanaticism regarding law and order - he is an intelligent and industrious man. He is a trained lawyer and he has shown an aptitude for his position. However, in this particular sphere of Government, for some reason that he has not disclosed to this chamber, he has left me astounded and dumbfounded as to why he did not heed the warnings given to him by honourable senators on this side of the chamber, and particularly the warnings that he was given by his 3 ministerial colleagues. 
Since I have been a member of this Senate I have heard honourable senators opposite say, with monotonous repetition, that there was no evidence of Croatian terrorism in 
Australia. The matter now has been fully canvassed by the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Murphy.  I believe - I say this quite sincerely - that he has completely justified his stand. He has produced overwhelming evidence and he has tabled it in this chamber. He was supported by documents and files from the Attorney-General's Department, from the Commonwealth Police and from the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. Instead of honourable senators endeavouring to discredit  Senator Murphy  they should be warmly applauding him for acting in a responsible manner and placing the facts before the people of Australia. The Attorney-General has produced evidence which he thinks had been hidden from the Parliament and from the Australian people. He called upon the former Attorney-General to justify himself for not doing what was done last week. As I said, instead of moving a vote of no confidence in the AttorneyGeneral honourable senators opposite should be applauding him for acting in a responsible manner. 
The most charitable view that I can take of the conduct of the former Attorney-General is that he displayed an irresponsible indifference to the information available to him which proved beyond doubt the seriousness of the. problems to which he had been continually alerted by Labor senators for many months. The position that  Senator Greenwood  (finds himself in today is one of his own making. He is the self-styled champion of law and order in this chamber. Every time he was asked a question about draft resisters or somebody else he made a vitriolic attack on the trade union movement, on the Labor Party or somebody associated with us; but never once did he come to grips with the question of terrorism and violence in this country. My own personal knowledge of the history of those exercises is that  Senator Greenwood  hounded draft resisters and made vicious attacks on trade unionists and demonstrators but displayed double standards when it came to dealing with acts of violence and of terrorism. 
Honourable senators will recall that after the bombing incidents in Sydney on 16th September 1972 the Leader of our Party, in this chamber,  Senator Murphy,  asked the then Attorney-General whether he would consider granting a sizable reward so that the people responsible for the bombings in Sydney could be quickly apprehended. The reply which  Senator Greenwood  gave to  Senator Murphy  was that he was acting in an irresponsible manner. That is recorded in Hansard for anyone to see. But while  Senator Greenwood  was using that language to address the Senate, his colleague in the New South Wales Parliament, the Premier.  Sir Robert  Askin, was telling the Parliament that his Government would put up a $20,000 reward so that those responsible for the bombings in Sydney could bc apprehended as quickly as possible. That seems to be the theme of the approach which  Senator Greenwood  has adopted to law and order. 
When responding during an adjournment debate to questions asked by Labor Party senators regarding violence and terrorism in Australia,  Senator Greenwood,  as reported on page 1098 of Hansard of 20th September 1972. stated: 
What we have learned over the past 2 or 3 days of the Australian Labor Party's approach to these matters is essentially revealing. We also have the tactic of the repetitious lie which is the weapon of all those who have totalitarian tendencies. What I have heard tonight from  Senator O'Byrne  is a repetition of something which has been nailed time and time again. He brought out the Press cuttings with the headlines of training camps' in Australia, cuttings bearing a dale sometime early in July this year. Those matters were investigated and this conclusively proves the point which 1 am making. There was a Press statement - and 1 have referred to this a number of limes - issued by me in which every one of those allegations was detailed and explained, and it was shown that there was no basis in truth for what was in those newspaper headlines. That Press statement was given quite an amount of publicity in the major newspapers of this country. I was asked yesterday why 1 was reading out the Press statement again. I said that obviously people are not giving any credence to it. So what do we have tonight?  Senator O'Byrne  once again came out with these old headlines seeking to make some capital out of them. It was like the old story which  Senator Wriedt  told yesterday about what happened at Wodonga some 8 or 9 years ago and the question which somebody asked yesterday. Is there a training camp in Queensland? Of course, this has been denied. This is what I meant by the tactic of the repetitious lie. If one states something often enough it will be believed. But I do not believe that the Australian people will be taken in by this. 
What utter rot and nonsense.  Senator Greenwood  said that in September 1972. We will give  Senator Greenwood  credit that he may have thought that he was making those statements at that time in good faith, but one will never know why he never knew of the existence of the evidence that has been tabled in this chamber by  Senator Murphy.  One would have thought that, after the evidence was made public and was available to all honourable senators,  Senator Greenwood  would have changed his attitude to the matters to which  Senator O'Byrne  and other honourable senators rightly and responsibly were inviting his attention. The subsequent documented evidence has proven them to be right. 
One would have thought that any sane, thinking person, knowing what he had said previously was so wide of the mark - it had been proven to be wrong by the documented evidence that was tabled in this chamber - would have corrected his course. But no, we find the former Attorney-General still triumphantly championing the cause of law and order and masquerading and parading as one who will fight to the end for the right to stamp out violence and terrorism.  Senator Greenwood  has no regrets for past errors that he has made. Defiantly, he stated this to the Senate yesterday 
I had stressed many times in many places in 1972 the strongest denunciation of terrorism of any description. Violence of any kind is to be deplored. And I knew that, in what 1 said, 1 had the full support of my colleagues in Government. I had constantly reiterated the Government's position. If there are groups in this country engaged in training for terrorist or subversive activities - to be carried out either in this country or overseas they would nol be tolerated. As far as the Government was able it would put a stop to them. 
That is the statement of a man who has been proved to be incorrect in his previous assumptions. Yet, as I said previously, he is still not prepared to change his attitude. At this stage 1 should like to draw a parallel between the position adopted by the former Attorney-General and that taken by his running mate in Queensland, the Queensland Premier,  Mr Jo  Bjelke-Petersen. who takes great pride in thinking that Queensland is referred to as the law and order State. 
I crave the indulgence of the Senate to allow me to develop my case relating to Queensland because I am trying to draw a parallel between the performance of the former Attorney-General in this place and the performance of the Queensland Premier regarding law and order, violence and terrorism. They both seem to want to make the same style of statement and, as I progress, honourable senators will see what I mean. I want to try to paint the picture for the Senate this afternoon. We know from personal experience how the former Attorney-General dealt with violence and terrorism in his capacity as Attorney-General. Honourable senators who do not come from Queensland may not be aware of the seriousness of the position in that State. The following article appeared in yesterday's 'Courier Mail': 
The Police Minister  (Mr Hodges)  objected yesterday to the type of raids carried out by Commonwealth Police in Sydney and Wollongong at the week-end. 
The raids were made in search of suspected Croatian terrorists. 

 Mr Hodges said Queensland Police would not help Commonwealth Police in raids such as these. 
For months the Labor Opposition in the Queensland State Parliament has been trying to get out of the Queensland Government the admission that Croatian training camps or Croatian extremist activities exist in Queensland. In fact, the Queensland Opposition has been trying to do it for years and the Queensland Government has been denying it. But last week it was exposed that the Commonwealth Police did find evidence to support the claims that there was Croatian terrorist and extremist activity in north Queensland. It was admitted by the Queensland Government. Yet the Minister in Charge of Police in Queensland said, 'We are not going to give any assistance whatsoever to the Commonwealth Police in tracking down these people.' As I said previously. I should like to develop the history of the bombing of the Communist Party headquarters in Brisbane. The headquarters were established at 291 St Pauls Terrace. Brisbane. On 19th April 1972, while 9 men were inside the building having a meeting, a bomb was thrown into the building. The lives of 9 men were put in jeopardy, because the 9 could have been killed. I ask honourable senators to forget about their political persuasions; we are talking about lives. It has been established beyond doubt that the action was taken by extreme rightists who were trying to intimidate people who were going to support the moratorium march which was to take place in Brisbane on Friday, 2 1 st April 1972. 
The bomb throwing by the extreme right wing elements was intended to deter people who were trying to organise this moratorium demonstration. Buttheir efforts were unfruitful because over 3,000 people marched in that demonstration and there was no violence from the demonstrators. The only violence associated with that march was shown by the 3 right wing extremists. I claim that this terrorist act took place in an atmosphere which was created by the phoney law and order campaign sponsored by the Queensland Premier.  Mr Jo  Bjelke-Petersen, and his Country-Liberal Party Government. Iam sorry to say that they were publicly supported in their advocacy by members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party and the National Civic Council. 
Let us have a look at the history of this matter. In the 'Courier-Mail' of 21st Apr il 1972 the Premier of Queensland is reported as having made a statement. I hope that what I have said regarding  Senator Greenwood's  statement still rings in the ears of honourable senators because they will see the similarity. The Premier stated: 
The Queensland Government is opposed totally to political extremism of any kind. We are determined to maintain law and order, violence and everything else that goes with extremism is not wanted in our society. 
I leave it to honourable senators to judge whether the Premier is sincere after I have developed the history of what happened to the Communist Party headquarters on 19th April 1972. As I said previously the headquarters were bombed at 7.40 p.m. in the evening when 9 people were meeting in the building. They were fortunate to escape serious injury. The cost of the damage exceeded S3,000 but was not recoverable because insurance companies do not or will not insure Communist Party headquarters against malicious damage. The result of the explosion was described by the 'Courier-Mail' in its edition of 20th April 1972 as follows:   . . the Peoples Bookshop and a printing press room of the Communist Party took most of the force of the explosion. Two doors leading to the bookshop have disappeared. Concrete blocks in a wall were moved out of alignment. Steel filing cabinets buckled as though made of wet cardboard. Doors from the printing room were torn from their hinges. The ceiling of the Bookshop was torn out, walls were moved and the floor of the Communist Party headquarters was lifted almost 2 inches in one section. 
Yes, your place was blown up. You should listen and you might be able to track down the culprits who blew up your place just as they blew up the Communist Party headquarters. The Communists would not be foolish enough to blow up their own place, would they? 
You say it was the Corns? 
I will be interested to hear your story because I will give you a hand to see that anyone who uses bombs is apprehended, irrespective of what political persuasion he might be. I would like to know who got the money when the DLP office was robbed. But the report continues: 
. the groundfloor had windows blown out and was flooded from burst water pipes. Floors and stairs throughout the building were strewn with a mess of shattered glass and woodwork. 
Just after the explosion the 'Courier-Mail' received an anonymous phone call to say that the person who was phoning was responsible for the bombing. He said that he did it to commemorate Hitler's birthday. Forty minutes afterwards 3 rifle shots were fired through the windows of the East Wind bookshop in Elizabeth Street and another call was made to the 'Courier-Mail' by a person claiming responsibility. On the evening of 20th April - the day before the moratorium march - several leading communists received anonymous bomb threat telephone calls at their home. The bombing - this is the point I am making and the parallel I am drawing in relation to the performances of  Senator Greenwood  and the Queensland Premier - was preceded by inflammatory public statements by the Queensland Premier,  Mr BjelkePetersen,  and other tory politicians on the impending Vietnam moratorium march and the dangers of so-called violence from demonstrators. In these statements the Labor Party and others in the Labor movement were attacked as the instigators of political violence. As it turned out the only violence came from the extreme right. 
The persons who were suspected for these bombings were missing from Brisbane after 19th April. I am coming to the punch line of what happened when they were apprehended. One was later picked up in New South Wales and 2 were apprehended in Tasmania. The two are serving long gaol sentences there because they were found guilty of violent offences. The third person is the man about whom I am going to speak.  Senator Byrne  as a lawyer should take note of this.  His  name is Gary John Mangan. He was arrested near Newcastle on 27th April in what police describe as a dirty and dishevelled condition. He was charged with vagrancy and held until a police officer arrived from Brisbane with a warrant for his arrest on the bombing charge. Mangan was brought back to Brisbane. He appeared before  Mr Kingtson,  S.M., on 2nd May. The police prosecutor Detective Senior Sergeant F. G. Donaghue told the court that Mangan admitted having been aware when he gave explosives to 2 men that they were going 'to blow up some Commie place*. Sergeant Donaghue said that the police case would be that, on the day of the violence, Mangan bought 16 sticks of gelignite, 24 feet of fuse and 6 detonators from a Brisbane company. Mangan told  Mr Kingston: 
While I was in New South Wales I had time to think and I was on my way back to Queensland to sort this matter out when I was apprehended. 
Not at that hearing nor at any other subsequent court appearance did Mangan make charges against the police for unfair or illegal extraction of admissions from him. Mangan appeared in a magistrates court on 11th May and was granted bail of $400 self and $400 surety on condition that he report daily to the Woolloongabba Criminal Investigation Branch. His case was listed for a committal hearing on 20th July. On that day he failed to appear. He had absconded on bail. The police later revealed that he had not reported daily to the Gabba CIB. 
Just a moment. If you were listening earlier you would have heard me say that I would draw a parallel between the attitude of  Senator Greenwood  - with his double standard of law and order on the one side and violence and extremism on the other side - and that of the Queensland Premier who is following exactly the same pattern in Queensland. I have been granted permission to develop my case by the Chair, and I am not going to be put off by a pip squeak like you. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)  - Order!  Senator McAuliffe,  will you address the Chair. 
I have only one cartridge left in my shotgun and I am not going to waste it on the honourable senator opposite. I know it will be unpalatable to the honourable senator to hear me finish what I have to say but,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I crave your indulgence to allow me to continue. Nothing more was heard of Mangan until the Brisbane 'Telegraph' reported on 2nd 
August that the Commonwealth police were searching for a man charged with complicity in the Brisbane bombing following a telephone threat to the Department of Civil Aviation to blow up an airliner unless 2 of his friends were released from Hobart gaol. Another report said prison authorites had intercepted a letter to two men in Hobart gaol promising to hijack an aircraft to secure their release. Commonwealth police, according to both Press reports, circulated his photograph to security officers at all airports. Mangan was finally arrested at Wellington a few days later and extradited to Queensland. 
In his next court appearance on 26th September police tendered evidence - two witnesses and a signed receipt - of Mangan's purchase of the explosives used to bomb the Communist Party headquarters as well as the confessional statements made by Mangan to police.  Mr Greenwood,  S.M. - I do not think he is a relation of the former AttorneyGeneral - committed Mangan for trial at the District Court sittings commencing on 23rd October. Mangan came before Judge McCracken on Friday, 10th November. The hearing continued on 13th and 14th November. All of the court's time was taken up in legal argument. Although a jury was sworn in it never heard any evidence. Judge McCracken upheld a defence contention that Mangan - the man who was responsible for the bombing of a building and who threatened the lives of 9 people in an act of extreme violence and terrorism - had been unlawfully detained by New South Wales police on a vagrancy charge. Judge McCracken used his judicial discretion to rule out the main evidence against Mangan, including the record of admission Mangan made to the police. 
I will leave it to  Senator Byrne  to put his own inference on what I am saying. 
I am making a statement in this Parliament. I am not obliged to answer  Senator Byrne.  After the Crown withdrew the bombing charge and entered a lesser one of being in possession of explosives with intent, Judge McCracken ruled that no reference could be made in evidence to the bombing of the Communist Party headquarters, again obliging the Crown to withdraw the charge. Judge McCracken then freed Mangan. 
The point I am developing - I want  Senator Byrne  to listen to it - is that obvious evidence of a major act of violence which extensively damaged property and jeopardised the lives of 9 people was swept aside in deference to a minor technical breach of law on arrest procedure. I have always accepted the adage of jurisprudence that justice must not only be done but must also appear to be done. Is this the sort of justice that the champions of law and order will hand out when evidence is placed before them that people throw bombs into buildings and commit acts of violence and are allowed to go scot free? 
I hope that I have been fair in my submissions. As I said earlier, I have no argument with  Senator Greenwood.  I am trying to look at this matter in an impartial way. I said earlier that I felt  Senator Greenwood  had a case to answer. After hearing his statement I feel - I am sorry to have to say this - that he has not risen to the occasion. Despite the fact that honourable senators on this side of the chamber had alerted him to violence and terrorism in Australia,  Senator Greenwood  refused to do anything about it. He cannot claim that the evidence of it was not there because there are files headed 'Croatian terrorism in Australia'. I will leave it to the legal luminaries to develop the legal aspects of the matter. I will endeavour to approach it with a common sense view and, in common sense language and common sense application, arrive at a conclusion. 

 Senator Greenwood has been challenged by  Senator Murphy  to justify to this Parliament why he took no action against terrorism and violence and, more serious than that, why he did not admit that it was in existence instead of sidestepping the accusations and charges made by honourable senators on this side of the chamber, and making vitriolic attacks on the Australian Labor Party and fanatical attacks on the trade union movement, demonstrators and draft resisters. I am pleased that  Senator Murphy  has seen fit and had the courage to make, and accepted the responsibility of making these charges in this chamber. More so I am happy that he has supported all his claims with documented evidence from the Attorney-General's Departlent, the Commonwealth Police Force and 
ASIO. I believe that  Senator Greenwood  has not answered the challenge that was thrown down to him by  Senator Murphy. 
I do not think that any honourable senator who has risen in his place to support  Senator Greenwood  has come to grips with the true position that is before this chamber. I think that they have circumvented the real argument for debate by switching their attack to a vote of no confidence in the Attorney-General of Australia. That is a cowardly act by people who know from a simple arithmetical exercise that if they get the support of those from whom they can normally expect to get it they will be able to outvote the Australian Labor Party and hoodwink the electorate on the false premise that the majority of honourable senators in this chamber have no faith or confidence in the Attorney-General. Honourable senators opposite have failed to live up to their responsibilities to answer  Senator Murphy's  charges. They have sought to play another ball game knowing that they have got the numbers, by entering into the despicable exercise of endeavouring to carry a vote of no confidence in  Senator Murphy.  I warn honourable senators opposite that they are notonly-- 
The  ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator Marriott)  - What is the honourable senator's point of order? 
The  ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTSenator McAuliffe, would you like to address me on the subject of the point of order raised by  Senator Byrne? 
 Mr Acting Deputy President,  the inference  Senator Byrne  puts on what I said is his own business. All I have done is to relate the facts associated with the case. Those facts were reported in the daily Press in Queensland. If J have acted improperly, the newspapers have also acted improperly. No action has been taken against them. I have only reported the facts.I have not in any way set out to speak disrespectfully of any member of the judiciary. I have only reported what actually happened, that is, that in a signed confession to police officers a man said that he bombed certain headquarters on 19th April and that he had explosives in his possession. I have also said that on a technical point the case was dismissed. I did not say that it was incorrectly dismissed by the judge. The inference that  Senator Byrne  wants to place on what 1 have said is his own business. 1 hope that it is recognised that I have a record in this chamber of telling the truth and of relating the facts as they happen and not as a figment of my imagination. I have related the facts. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order!  Senator Byrne,  you have not named the standing order under which you took the point of order. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I have asked the honourable senator to name the standing order under which he took a point of order. 
The Judiciary is not to be criticised, nor reflections made on Judges. 
On pages 1414 and 1415 of volume 120 of Hansard one finds the ruling of  President  Newlands. I do not have a copy of that Hansard before me. I think the  Clerk  at the table intended to obtain it for me. On those pages appears the ruling of the  President  which is reported by  Mr Odgers  in his book, namely, that the judiciary is not to be criticised, nor reflections made on judges.  Senator McAuliffe  was making a very gross reflection, not only by the inevitable implications in his speech but also in his response to an interjection from me.  I  said: 'Are you reflecting on the integrity of the judge?' If my recollection is correct, he replied: 'Draw your own conclusions'.  I  now refer to the pages 1414 and 1415 of volume 120 of Hansard, dated 19th March 1929. The Hansard record reads: 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator The Hon. Sir John Newlands)-  Order!  Senator Payne  has already addressed the Senate, and 1 request him to allow  Senator Barnes  to make bis speech in his own way. He must desist from interjecting. 

 Senator BARNES ; It is necessary for some one to drug these matters into the open and have them righted, if possible. I am not an aggressive person, and 1 dislike being nasty to anybody, but the lime comes when even a worm will turn, and when this worm turns he is not very particular about whom he talks. A member of Parliament is granted immunity when speaking on the floor of the House, and the history of the British Empire shows the necessity for the practice, and the great advantages which have accrued from it. Parliament is a place where a man cannot be gagged or threatened with law proceedings . . . 

 Senator Payne ; He has been doing that all through. 

 Senator Payne ; I am prepared to withdraw it, but 1 cannot close my ears to what I hear. 

 Senator Payne ; If you insist, sir. I must withdraw. But I would like to say a little more. 

 Senator Payne ; Do yon, sir object to my statement that  Senator Barnes  has been criticising our Arbitration Court judges throughout his speech? 

 Senator Payne ; I withdraw anything that is considered to be a reflection on the Chair. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Housing investigate what can be done to prevent the Mackay Permanent Building Society and the Maryborough Building Society from requiring as a condition of granting a home loan the home purchaser to pay a commission fee to Blacks Real Estate and Wassell-Hooker Real Estate respectively when the purchaser is not dealing with any real estate agent but directly with the builder? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, I ask: Why should the Queensland poisons regulations regarding the sale of cough mixtures containing common antihistamines be so restricted as to prohibit chemists from selling these preparations over the counter, when such a restriction is limited to Queensland, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory? This restriction causes personal and financial embarrassment to chemists in these areas when tourists from all other States of the Commonwealth, accustomed to buying these preparations in their home States, attempt to buy these cough mixtures in the areas where this restriction applies? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing. By way of preface I point out that in answer to a question asked of him last Thursday the Minister said that building society procedures were really matters for the State governments. Notwithstanding that, I have been encouraged by his answer to ask a second question. Will the Minister investigate what can be done to stop some Queensland permanent building societies from insisting, as a condition of the granting of a home loan, that a purchaser buy extra life insurance, regardless of how much insurance he already has, from a company which that permanent building society selects? 
 I ask the Minister for the Media whether he has seen a report in the latest copy of the 'Bulletin' in which it is suggested that a recent stoppage by script assistants employed by the Australian Broadcasting Commission was settled after negotiation had been reopened at the Minister's request. Will the Minister confirm this report? Does it imply that the management- of the Australian Broadcasting Commission was not able to settle the dispute without the Ministers intervention? 
Will the Minister for the Media investigate an agreement that exists between the Brisbane 'Courier-Mail' and the Queensland Minister for Health,  Mr Tooth,  regarding the non-publishing of any story concerning a health matter without the Minister's prior approval or the guarantee to the Minister of a right of reply? Will the Minister investigate how many other Queensland Government Ministers have similar agreements with the 'Courier-Mail'? How does the 'Courier-Mail' justify this infringement of democratic rights to information with Jefferson's statement, which incidentally appears above the entrance to the 'Courier-Mail' building? Jefferson's statement was: 
Our liberty depends on the freedom of the Press, and that cannot be limited without being lost. 
 Mr President,  no doubt in the course of this debate we will hear many proposals and counter-proposals. Claims will come from the Opposition that the Government, in introducing this Bill, has acted unfairly and incorrectly. Before this debate is completed, no doubt some honourable senators will make personal charges against other honourable senators. But I believe that there is one underlying fact with respect to this legislation that we all must support. That is that our electoral system and the distribution of electoral boundaries must be fair and that the integrity of the distribution commissioners who will carry out the proposed redistribution must be beyond reproach. 
It is true that this Bill seeks to make certain alterations to the existing situation. Firstly, it seeks to bring about an already long overdue redistribution in Western Australia. All honourable senators well, know that long before the election date a redistribution in Western Australia was necessary. Under the provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act a redistribution should have been carried out, but the previous Government - it has been proved to be a good judge - refrained from carrying out the redistribution because it sensed the political climate correctly. It knew that if a redistribution were carried out it would lose a seat and its majority would be reduced. As a result of the election there has been a change of government. We on the Government side are hoping that the Bill will get a speedy passage so that the necessary redistribution in Western Australia can be carried out.  Senator Drake-Brockman  said that a redistribution in other States is not necessary. The Government is following a long established practice of -carrying out a redistribution in all States after the holding of a census. The redistribution will remove the malapportionment between electoral divisions which members of the House of Representatives represent.. 
The Bill will reduce the permissible variation in the specified quota from one-fifth to one-tenth - in other words, it will reduce the variation from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. The Bill also seeks to make some necessary amendments to section 1 9 (2) which contains provisions which were included in the Act in 1.965 by the coalition parties as guidelines to the Distribution Commissioners for the drawing up of district boundaries. The Bill seeks to repeal those provisions which were regarded as obnoxious provisions and ones which were weighed heavily in favour of the Country Party. The provisions to which I refer are: The disabilities arising out of remoteness or distance, the density or sparsity of population of the division and the area of division. We propose to remove those provisions from the Act. We  also  seek to vary section 25 to provide that a redistribution may be permitted where one quarter of the divisions in a State differs from the quota by onetenth. At the moment the permissible variation is one-fifth. We are seeking to alter that to one-tenth. In a nutshell, they are the sections which are sought to be amended. 
Listening to  Senator Drake-Brockman  I felt that the Bill would bring about the greatest upheaval and the greatest gerrymander in the political history of this country and that it would draw up boundaries which would keep the Australian Labor Party in office for 50 or 60 years. He said that the number of senators from Tasmania, with its small population, is the same as the number of senators from New South Wales and Victoria with their greater population. I could see the smirk on  Senator Wright's  face when  Senator DrakeBrockman  said that, but the number of Senators from each state is not governed by electoral boundaries. That is governed by the Constitution. I do not know the exact section, but that is laid down by the founders of the Commonwealth. That is provided for in the constitution. I do not know why  Senator Drake-Brockman  should erroneously introduce that matter into  a  debate on electoral matters. We on this side of the chamber appreciate that equality in the number of electors in  a  division  is  impracticable and cannot be achieved. We know that there has to be an allowance for variation in movement  in  divisions. There has to be an allowable variation for trend in populations. But it is  Important  that  at  all times we should seek to bring this about. While we may not have equality of voting and complete equality of electors in a division, we should at all times safeguard the equality of political rights. That is a very important matter, lt is towards this end that the Government has introduced the Bill which seeks to make these necessary amendments. 
The principle underlying the Bill is the philosophy of one vote one value. We will be endeavouring, as far as practicable, to maintain that the value of the vote of one citizen shall be the equivalent of the value of the vote of another. The existing law allows the Distribution Commissioners or the boundary commissioners to put a quota on each electorate and to allow it to vary by 20 per cent either way. One does not need to be a mathematical wizard or a student to know that under the present set-up one division can have 50 per cent more voters than another. If we take 50,000 electors as the norm, if there is a variation of 20 per cent, which the present Electoral Act permits, there may be 40,000 electors in that division. That is a variation of one-fifth. Another division could have 60,000 electors. There is a difference of 20,000 electors. That proves that one division can have 50 per cent more voters than another. 
I deal now with  Senator Drake-Brockman's  statement that this is the first time in the political history of this country that the amendments which are sought have been introduced in a Bill. If he had said that in 1965 when certain amendments to section 19 were sought by the Coalition Government, that would have been the first time in the history of Federation that that section has been amended or tinkered with because it was in 1965 that the then coalition Liberal-Country Party Government, which was dominated in electoral matters by the Country Party, introduced amendments to section 19 which were a distinct weighting in favour of the Country Party. In fact, section 19 was amended. I will deal with it in a moment. That was the first interference to section 19 since 1902. Although there had been 7 redistributions in the history of the country, there had not been attempt by a government of any political persuasion to interfere with section 19 which sets out the guidelines on which the boundary commissioners should base the quotas in various divisions. But the Country Party Government in 1965 introduced these glaring instances: The area of a division was to be taken into consideration. The density and sparsity of population were to be taken into consideration, as were the disabilities arising out of the remoteness or distance of a division. For the first time in the history of this country those provisions were inserted in the Act. 
This amendment had been regarded by all political students as one of the most drastic and questionable pieces of legislation in regard to electoral reform. The tragedy about it is that it did not come about as a result of deliberations of the boundary commissioners. lt was preconceived in the Party room of the Country Party. Let us have no doubt about that. The real intention of the amendments to the Act in 1965 was made crystal clear at a Country Party dinner that was held at Murwillumbah, which is not very far from where I live, on 14th June 1965. It was addressed by the then Minister for the Interior and  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, the right honourable member for Richmond  (Mr Anthony),  in which Murwillumbah nestles.  Mr Anthony  was very forthcoming at this dinner. He has been reliably reported in the Murwillumbah 'Daily News' of 15th June 1965. He made perfectly clear the intention of the Country Party in respect of the new redistribution. Not even  Mr Anthony  or anyone closely associated with him can challenge the accuracy of that newspaper report, because the paper was the family newspaper. It was owned by his family. It is not at present because when the newspaper companies in the northern rivers and Gold Coast regions introduced offset printing they banded together to form Northern Star Ltd, of which the family is a major shareholder. The accuracy of the report cannot be challenged because at the time to which I am referring the newspaper was the family newspaper. It might be interesting to see the text of his address. He felt that he could spread himself, that he could be forthcoming because he was among friends and that he was a long way from the seat of government. One could really tell the true intentions behind the thinking of the then Minister for the Interior and Minister responsible for drawing up the redistribution of boundaries. 
In his address on the evening of 14th June 1965  Mr Anthony  gave an assurance to the gathering. I can see the faces of the members of the gathering now.  Mr Aubrey  Budd, the patriach of the family, the champion of the Country Party in the area and a respected citizen, would be sitting up at the front and  Mr Anthony  would be dancing to the tune that  Mr Budd  wanted him to dance to. He received loud applause for what he said. He said: 'I will make sure that fewer people will be required to elect representatives in country areas than in city areas'. He said that the Australian electoral system was the finest in the world but that it lacked territorial representation. He said that representation was based on population, not area, with the result that power in Parliament was confined to the heavily populated areas. Then he said that the task of electoral reform was probably one of his worst jobs as Minister for the Interior and one on which his political future hinged. 
Does such a frank statement from a Minister - reliably reported in his own newspaper - need any further comment? I do not need to remind the Senate that territorial representation is the direct reverse of one vote one value. In regard to the complaint about the composition of power, one can only assume that  Mr Anthony  implied, in addressing his Country Party colleagues at Murwillumbah, that he was not happy, that there were too many Liberals in the Government and that there were too many Liberals in the Parliament because they represented the more heavily populated areas. 
I felt that 1 had to refer to what happened at Murwillumbah to answer what  Senator Drake-Brockman  had said. He told this chamber that never before had such an Electoral Bill been introduced, or one that required so many amendments. That is the true story. I do not ask honourable senators to take my word for it; it was reliably reported in the Murwillumbah 'Daily News' of 15th June 1965, and it has never been repudiated by  Mr Anthony.  As I have said, it was the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government which proceeded with the gerrymander in 1965, despite the fact that the Parliament - I think in 1956 - had set up the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review with the express purpose of investigating electoral reform in this country. That Committee sat for 3 years and was composed of distinguished parliamentarians. At the end of 3 years, on 26th November 1959, the Committee tabled its report in the Parliament of Australia. 
In short, the 2 pertinent conclusions which the Committee reached were that wherever possible the philosophy of one vote one value had to be followed and that the permissible variation from the established quota of electors should be one-tenth or 10 per cent, not 20 per cent. So the amendments contained in this Bill are not the brain-child only of the Australian Labor Party; they are the brainchild of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review which tabled its unanimous report on these 2 questions on 26th November 1959. 
Let us pause for a moment to consider who were the members of that Committee. They were  Senator Neil  O'Sullivan,  Senator McKenna, Senator Kennelly,  our own distinguished  Senator Reginald  Wright and Messrs Drummond, Downer, Joske, Whitlam, Ward, Pollard and Calwell. As 1 have said, they recommended that wherever possible the principle of one vote one value should apply and that the permissible variation in the quota should be one-tenth, which is what this socalled drastic piece of legislation which we have before us provides. As I have said, that was the unamimous recommendation of the Committee, which included  Senator Wright.  Also, 2 distinguished Country Party members of Parliament were members of this Committee with whose recommendations  Senator Drake-Brockman  does not agree. 
Let us see to what polictical parties the members of the Committee belonged. It comprised 4 members of the Liberal Party, 2 members of the Country Party and 6 members of the Australian Labor Party. The 4 Liberal members on the Committee were lawyers;  Senator Wright  was one of them. The 2 Country Party members were not lawyers, but they were distinguished members of the Parliament. Of the remaining 6 Labor Party members, 2 were lawyers and the other 4 had given distinguished service and made worthwhile contributions to the Parliament because previously they had held Ministerial rank. The members of the Committee, which was an all-party committee, were signatories to the unanimous report on the 2 questions to which I have referred. 
The report was not hastily prepared. It was brought down after 3 years' consideration. So that honourable senators need not only take my word for this, and in order that it is recorded in Hansard for future research, I refer to page 47 of the report of the Committee, which was presented by command on 26th November 1959 over the signatures of these illustrious men. I am sure that  Senator Wright  will not repudiate his signature tonight. I refer to paragraphs 328, 329 and 330 of the report. Paragraph 328 states: 
The Committee concluded that the absence of constitutional guarantees in the Commonwealth Constitution had not prevented the rule of law from characterising the Australian way of life. The Committee believes that as long as governments are democratically elected and there is full parliamentary responsibility to the electors, the protection of personal rights will, in practice, be secure in Australia. The Committee has not chosen, therefore, to recommend the writing into the Constitution of a charter of individual liberties. 
This is what I want to underline: 
Instead, the Committee considers it appropriate, at this stage of Federal history and having regard to recent and contemporary world events, to recommend a constitutional amendment to protect the position of the elector and the democratic processes essential to the proper functioning of the Federal Parliament. 
Paragraph 329 reads: 
Thus, the Committee concluded that it should recommend the inclusion in the Constitution of provisions ensuring the regular review of the electoral divisions of each State and also accord near uniformity to the value accorded to the votes of the electors for each of the States. 
Paragraph 330 states: 
One form of gerrymandering is the creation of electoral divisions in which there are substantial disparities in the number of enrolled voters so securing for a political party greater representation than it should have. In all its forms, the device is thoroughly subversive of the democratic process. In making possible minority governments, the majority can be deprived of the government of its choice and the way is opened for arbitrary action impairing the freedom of the individual even though that action stands condemned by the majority of people who comprise the electors of the Commonwealth. 
What could be plainer than that? Every member of the Committee agreed with those aspects of the report, and I emphasise that  Senator Wright  agreed with them and made a worthwhile contribution to the Committee's deliberations. I hope that the Senate does not forget that during the course of this debate. I have told honourable senators the names of the members of Parliament who comprised the Committee and I have also said that the Committee did not operate on a party political basis. There were 4 members of the Liberal Party, 2 members of the Country Party and 6 members of the Australian Labor Party. 
I think that  Senator Wright  will stand by his signature. Recently he said to me that if ever he is challenged he will stand up in his place and answer any challenge to his integrity or any suggestion that he has not acted in accordance with previous decisions he has made. I know that he will do the right thing when the vote is taken. He will not repudiate his signature; he will stand solidly behind the opinion he expressed so forcibly in this report in 1959. I deal with that matter at some length because I think it is important to show the Senate that  Senator Wright  was a party to that report. The parliamentary representatives of the Country Party also were signatories to that report about which there was a unanimous decision. So it surprises me as a new senator in this chamber to hear of the double standards on which honourable members opposite are operating. I have told the names of the people concerned, I have told of their recommendations and I have told the Senate that those deliberations extended over a 3- year period. 
Let us examine where my own Party stands on this matter. The views of the Australian Labor Party on electoral reform have been publicised to everybody across the length and breadth of this country. They are available for everybody to see. We have never wavered in our view of what is required in the way of electoral reform. Our philosophy is well known. It has been affirmed and reaffirmed at conference after conference and has been printed in our platform for everybody to see. I have no doubt that whilst it may be claimed that probably we have no direct mandate to bring about drastic changes in electoral matters the people fully understand and appreciate the sort of electoral reform we will bring about and the reason for it. I believe that we have an indirect mandate to do this. Just as I wanted the record to be right about the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review, I would like for the benefit of future research to read into the Hansard report the Labor Party's platform on electoral reform. The objective of our platform is clearly stated and is as follows: 
. to ensure that the House of Representatives and each State House of Parliament is composed of members directly elected from electorates in each of which the number of people is as nearly as practicable the same . . . 
That is the viewpoint of the Australian Labor Party. I have told the Senate about the report of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review and I have told it about the Australian Labor Party point of view. If that is not proof positive for members of the Opposition, if they want further proof and if they want further evidence that the amendments that we are seeking are just and are long overdue, I refer them- 
On behalf of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts I present the 143rd report of the Committee. I have a statement concerning the report which I- seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard. 
I present the report of Estimates Committee E relating to the, particulars of the proposed additional expenditure for 1972-73, together with the Hansard report of the proceedings of the Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
On behalf of the Public Accounts Committee I present the one hundred and forty-fourth report of that Committee. I commend the report to honourable senators. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to have a statement incorporated in Hansard. 
Is the Minister  representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development aware that total land development costs in Brisbane, including acquisition, holding, construction and realisation costs are currently approximately $3,000 to $3,500 per allotment, while prices range from $5,500 to $15,000? Will the Minister take action against subdividers such as Hooker-Rex Pty Ltd, W. H. Bowden Pty Ltd, Cambridge Credit Corporation Ltd, Alfred Grant Pry Ltd, and others who are making exorbitant profits by withholding land from the market to keep prices up? Will he also take action against speculators in subdivided land who are increasing demand for land and, by so doing, are causing prices to rise so that they can make capital gains? 
 My question follows upon the answer that the Minister representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development gave to my previous question. I now ask the Minister: Can the Queensland Government's reluctance to take action to freeze land prices be attributed to the fact that several Liberal members of the Queensland Parliament, including  Mr dive  Hughes and  Mr William  Lickiss, have large financial interests in land development and personally would lose financially if the Government were to act? Is there any way in which the Minister could expose these land interests by Government members of the Queensland Parliament in order to embarrass that Government into taking action similar to that taken by the Labor Government of South Australia, that is, to freeze profits on land development to a fixed percentage each year? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing. Subsequent to questions I asked on 1 June 1973 it was alleged that local authority delays are responsible for subdivided land being held off the market. Therefore, can the Minister obtain details of the number of acres of land held by HookerRex Pty Ltd, W. H. Bowden Pty Ltd, Cambridge Credits Corporation Ltd, Alfred Grant Pty Ltd and other subdividers in the Brisbane and Gold Coast areas in respect of which applications for subdivisional approval have not been lodged with the appropriate authorities? Is it true that Cambridge Credit alone has at least 25,080 allotments between Brisbane and the Gold Coast and 3,500 allotments at Redbank tied up and that none of those subdivisions will be completed before 1980? As these subdividers have carefully avoided rebuttal of my complaint regarding the making of exorbitant profits of up to $3,500 on a block of land priced at $6,000, will the Minister refer the matter to the Prices Justification Tribunal for its earliest attention? 
 My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing. Will the Minister investigate what percentage of subdivided residential land is sold to speculators and what percentage is sold to people who intend to build a home? Will the Minister also investigate whether the Government can stop this speculation in subdivided land either by redefining the definition of 'income' for taxation purposes or by a capital gains tax? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. Can the Minister inform the Senate what action the Government has taken on the question of frequency modulation radio broadcasts since he tabled a position paper on this subject in the Senate on 6 June last? Does he accept the Australian Broadcasting Control Board's recommendations on the establishment of FM radio in the ultra high frequency band, which is a band not used by other countries for FM services? 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLANDDuring the parliamentary recess I had an opportunity to look more closely into this matter and to discuss it with officers of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and of course with officers of my Department. I have also taken the liberty of having discussions with both the Prime Minister and the Treasurer about the question. I can tell the honourable senator, and I tell the Senate now, that I am in the course of preparing a submission to Cabinet for Cabinet to resolve this issue of the very high frequency or ultra high frequency band as soon as possible. As this Cabinet submission is being prepared I would hope that the honourable senator would understand if I do not take this opportunity to outline my personal views on the subject. I feel I am obliged to withhold any statement of these views until Cabinet has discussed the matter. However, I would point out that on this subject I have endeavoured to the utmost of my ability to keep the Parliament as fully informed as possible on the developments that have been taking place. As the honourable senator reminded the Senate, I tabled a position paper on the subject as recently as 6 June last. Honourable senators may be aware that during the parliamentary recess I asked the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to arrange a seminar on frequency allocation for members of the House of Representatives and the Senate. A number of senators and members attended. Unfortunately it was a comparatively small number. However, I congratulate the Board for having convened an excellent seminar, and I am delighted to know that a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts, which is inquiring into all aspects of television and broadcasting, was in attendance at that seminar. 
I am prompted to take part in this debate not 'because I feel there is a case to answer - I think the Opposition's efforts in this respect have been pretty futile - but because I believe that the education policy of the Government will result in one of the most dramatic and exciting changes in the education system in the history of this Parliament. I believe that the members of the Opposition have performed like a team of lightweights. 
They are preliminary boys up against the policy and administration of possibly the best Minister for Education in  Mr Kim  Beazley ever to sit in the Australian Parliament. There can be no dou'bt about that. 
As I have to go through the motions, I think I should make a brief reference to the history of the report of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission - the Karmel Committee. It was on 12 December 1972 that the Labor Prime Minister, Gough Whitlam, established the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission and requested it to investigate the position of government and non-government schools throughout Australia, both at the primary and secondary levels, to bring in recommendations regarding the immediate needs of these schools, to establish some sort of priority with respect to those needs and also to recommend measures whereby those needs could be met. The Committee, under the chairmanship of Professor Peter Karmel, met and brought down a unanimous report which was tabled in the Parliament on 20 May 1973. When it was published for each and every person to see it received all round acclaim for the manner in which the members of the Committee had discharged their obligation to determine the needs of the school systems throughout Australia. Cabinet considered the report and on 12 June 1973 accepted it with one exception. The Committee recommended that the grants for recurrent resources of schools in category A should be phased out over a 2-year period during 1974 and 1975. The Cabinet did not accept that recommendation. It decided that the phasing out should be after 1973. Cabinet based its decision on a reason that was given by the Committee itself. The Committee's opinion was that Government aid could not be justified in the maintaining or raising of standards beyond those which publicly supported schools can hope to achieve by the end of a decade. I do not think anyone can be annoyed with or opposed to the soundness of that reasoning. 
Let us examine the complaints that have been made by members of the Opposition during the course of the discussion of this matter of urgency that was initiated by  Senator Rae.  I think this debate was initiated for no other reason than to try to advertise the fact that  Senator Rae  is the shadow Minister for Education.  Senator Rae  said that there is to be a denial by the Government of the right of every Australian child to receive economic support for its educational needs from Government funds. What rot! He could not possibly be serious about that. For the benefit of the record and as the Opposition has graciously given the Government an opportunity to get its message over to the people of Australia per medium of the broadcasting of this debate, allow me to make a brief comparison between what the McMahon Government did in the field of education and what the Labor Government is doing. Honourable senators opposite will know as well as I do that during a 2-year period between 1971 and 1973 the McMahon Government allocated $40. 5m to government schools. For a similar 2-year period the Labor Government has allocated $495m, which is 12 times or $450m more than was provided by the previous government. Let us turn our attention to the subject of aid to non-government schools. The McMahon or Tory Government in a 2-year period between 1971 and 1973 gave $71.5m to non-government schools. The Labor Government, which is supposed to have an inbred bitter hatred towards non-government schools and which is supposed to be wanting to bring about their abolition and to reduce them to a mere nothing in order to allow the government system to take over, is to give $121m more over a 2-year period than a government which posed as the champion of the non-government schools. Surely to God those simple arithmetical figures prove that there is no comparison between what the Opposition did when it was in government and what the Labor Party is doing now that it is occupying the treasury bench. 
I believe that the Australian public is well aware that Labor's policy is a creative and a responsible one and one which will increase expenditure on those in need. Surely to God no one in this chamber will parade under any misapprehension that he did not know that the Labor Party's education policy, if it became the Government, would be based on need. Why has there been all the hypocritical showmanship that we have seen tonight from  Senator McManus  who accused us of not sticking to our pledges? Everything that he has learned in politics he 'has learned in the Labor Party. He knows that whatever Labor has promised Labor will do. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)  - Order! There are too many interjections. I know that there has been a lot of crossfire in the Senate during this debate. I think that it has gone far enough. I propose to ensure that each  speaker  will be heard m silence, as he should be heard in this chamber. I ask honourable senators to respect my wishes. 
'The second paragraph in the matter of urgency which  Senator Rae  is trying to propound in the Senate is as follows: 
The failure of the Government to disclose to each school the index figure and the facts involved in the calculation of the index, by which non-government schools have been categorised. 
There is no secret index.  Senator Rae  knows that as well as 1 do. He is trying to mislead the electorate and to draw a red herring across the path. There is no support for a weak defence against our policy. Categories A to H, which are the categories under which all schools come,  were  prepared by the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission in the most objective way possible - on data supplied by the schools themselves. There was no secret about the manner in which the index system would be arrived at. It is dealt with completely and fully in chapters 5 and  6  of the Karmel report Explanatory notes appeared in the 'Canberra Times' and the 'Age' newspapers. Furthermore, statements went out to the various schools. The method that would be adopted by the Committee in arriving at the index system was self explanatory. Surely there is no secret about that. It has been published for everyone to see. The schools know as well as  Senator 'Rae  and I know that they received all the information that was necessary for them to fill in their applications. 
There is another provision. If schools submitted incorrect data to the Commission or if there has been an significant change in the circumstances of schools since 1972, they can apply to the Commission for a review. The plain and simple fact is that  Senator Rae  and his colleagues in the Opposition have ignored the difference between recurrent grants and capital grants. Mention was made of St Joseph's Christian Brothers College at Nudgee. It has magnificent grounds. Its buildings are the equal of any school buildings in Australia. From a real estate point of view it would be worth millions. It is not in category A because its recurrent resources are such that when the number of pupils in a class is divided into its recurrent resources the result keeps it below category A. The fees for a day student at Nudgee College are S240 a year. On the other hand, at the Geelong Grammar School, which is the alma mater of the former Minister for Education,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, the fees for a day school student are SI, 200 a year. 
He went to one equally as good. It is in category A because its recurrent resources are entirely different. The listing of a school in a category is not determined by whether the building looks nice or has aesthetic beauty or by the spacious grounds. Surely everybody knows that. 
The third paragraph of the matter of urgency raised by  Senator Rae  states: 
The failure of the Government through its Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission to state the criteria used to alter the categories of certain small non-government schools and its failure to publish the list and details of those alterations. 
Again, what roti The Government has been as open as a book on this matter. The Karmel Committee analysed Australian schools and established a base unit of 100 for an average state school's recurrent resources. This was measured against the index for nongovernment schools. The listings varied from 40, which schools were put in category H, to 270 in some instances, which schools, naturally enough, had to go in category A. The plain truth of the matter is this: Although this Government will spend $2,000m on education in the next 6 years, the schools which are in category A today will still be ahead of the 140 points which is regarded as the level to which the whole school system in Australia should be lifted. After $2,000m is spent on education in the next 6 years these schools which  Senator Wright  and  Senator McManus  are defending will still be ahead of the 140 points which is regarded as the mean for the recurrent resources for the school system in Australia. 
The fourth and final paragraph of the matter of urgency states: 
The refusal of the Government to adhere  to  and acknowledge the promises made during 1972 by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley,  that Commonwealth grants to nongovernment schools would be maintained at a basic level of at least that applying in 1972. 
Of course anyone can be quoted out of context. One can take passages of a speech and use them. Apparently  Senator McManus  has spent most of his political life in Melbourne's Festival Hall because any time that he wants to attack a statement- 
Yes, at Labor Party meetings, wanting education. Let us see what the present Minister promised in relation to the education system. This is in Hansard of 26 September 1972, page 1936. The present Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley,  when speaking on the States Grants (Schools) Bill said: 
We take the attitude that in the coming school year of 1973 this Bill must therefore be allowed to proceed. But we give a fair warning that if we are in power, while there will be an expenditure on nongovernment schools of no less than the sum total that will be appropriated in this Bill, the appropriation will be reapportioned - it will be reapportioned on the basis of need. 
That is the promise that Labor made in the Parliament of this country on 27 September 1972. We have heard claims about discrimination against non-government schools. Would the Opposition be enlightened to know that over 80 per cent of pupils of nongovernment schools will be better off under the new scheme of grants than they were previously? 1 have not heard anyone opposite admit that. Despite what has been claimed by the Opposition, the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission has not used pupil-teacher ratios to assess the needs of schools for additional grants. The matter has been looked at on an overall level of resources being used in schools. The Committee has not sought to impose any fixed pattern of expenditure, whether it be on teachers, equipment or ancillary staff. They are the plain facts. 
 I do not know what I am talking about? You have had your opportunity, and you have not said anything. We hear so much about discrimination, socialist objectives and similar matters. Let us hear the views of some of the Opposition's confederates and bedfellows - the Conservatives in Great Britain. The Right Honourable Margaret Thatcher was in this country recently. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 1 call  Senator Davidson.  Before he commences his remarks, I wish to say something. I intimated earlier that I proposed to ensure that speakers in the debate would be heard in silence so that the listening public of Australia could hear the arguments for and against this issue. Before  Senator Davidson  commences I point out that if I have to interrupt this interferes with and depletes the time allotted to a  speaker.  1 do not wish to do this to honourable senators on either side, but I will do it if I have to. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. With regard to current newspaper reports of iodine 131 being detected in milk supplies in Perth, will the Minister inform the Senate on the gravity of the situation and the action currently being taken by the Government? 
Can the Minister for Customs and Excise advise the Senate on the degree of co-operation existing between Australia and overseas countries in respect of the suppression of the illicit drug traffic? 
I rise to associate myself with the remarks of honourable senators who have supported this report on trade between Australia and New Zealand which has been brought down by the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade. I think that it is an excellent compilation and that it has adequately dealt with all aspects of trade between the 2 countries. The report, which has been brought in under 15 sub-headings, can only bring credit to the honourable senators who were responsible for compiling it. Many observations and recommendations have been made in the report but I do not propose to deal with them because, after all, I was only elected to this Committee early in the year. Honourable senators will recall that the Committee was reappointed on, I think, 14 March this year and the new members were elected to it on 15 March. The task of the new Committee was to consider the draft report which had already been drawn up by the outgoing Committee. 
If any rewards for the compiling of the report are due they are due to the members of the outgoing Committee. For that reason I feel that the retiring members are equipped to speak more adequately to the report than I am. Nevertheless I would not like to miss the opportunity to make some observations on one aspect of the report, that is, the very interesting segment which refers to the tourist trade which exists betweeen Australia and New Zealand. I do not need to remind honourable senators of the importance of the tourist industry to this country. It is built in to the Treasury. Overseas visitors alone bring $156m into this country per annum. This represents 3 per cent of our export earnings. When one considers that the tourist trade earns, in export earnings, more than our exports of iron, steel and dairy products one realises with some surprise the importance of the tourist industry to the Australian economy. In 1971 over 98,000 New Zealanders visited Australia. That represented 30 per cent of all overseas visitors to our shores. In 1972 over 100,000 New Zealanders visited Australia and spent $26m while they were here. 
Well, it is still Australia. I like to think of us as Australians. I am not like  Senator Byrne  who wants to keep these fictitious boundaries which separate the States, boundaries drawn up by colonial secretaries years ago. I am speaking of trade between Australia and New Zealand. I do not want to be a partisan and think of Queensland trade with New Zealand. I prefer to think of Australian trade. 
 I am not going to be distracted by  Senator Byrne  or  Senator Gair.  I assure them that I welcome their interjections. I ask 'them not to cease making them. 
No, but I will as I warm up. I will improve in quality. I will give a reply of the same quality as that of the interjection. Anyhow, it will interest those more intelligent honourable senators to know that the 98,000 visitors from New Zealand who come to Australia annually represent 80 per cent of all New Zealand travellers. This is a remarkable position. Of all people who travel from New Zealand annually 80 per cent come to Australia. The critics might like to say: *Of course, that is understandable because there are financial restrictions on New Zealand travellers who go overseas'. I think that in '1969 the amount which they were allowed to take out of the country was $14 a day. In 1970 it was increased to about $20 a day. With the rise in the amount allowed the increase in the number of travellers who left New Zealand was noticeable. It is true that this would be a contributing factor in New Zealand's desire to see Australia. It might be, as  Senator Byrne  suggested, that they use our ports as stepping stones before they travel further overseas. This may be a factor which contributes to the whole position of New Zealand tourists visiting Australia. 
I would like to think that some credit was given to the activities of the Australian Tourist Commission. I know from the annual report that it has increased its staff and activity in that country. This can only result in an improved flow of tourists from New Zealand to Australia. I have seen the practical exercises of the Gold Coast City Council and the Gold Coast tourist industry which, by sending promotional tours to New Zealand, have increased the flow of tourists from that country to the Gold Coast. Those efforts have been tremendously successful and the tourist industry has become a very important part of the economy of that 23-mile strip of coast. I repeat that the promotional tours that were originally sponsored by the Gold Coast City Council, various tourist industries and sections of commerce and industry on the Gold Coast have proved to be tremendously successful. I like to think that this is because of the activities also of the Australian Tourist Commission which displayed a keen and active interest in promoting tourists to leave New Zealand and come to Australia. As a result of its enterprise we have 'the healthy position where over 100,000 New Zealanders spend $26m here annually. This is very important. As I said at the outset, there are many aspects of trade between Australia and New Zealand which are covered in this report. The Committee has done an excellent job. It is a first class compilation and one that could provide a very profitable reference for honourable senators in the future. 
I think it opportune to mention at this time that if the operations of the Senate standing committees and select committees are of the calibre of the Committee inquiring into trade and industry matters, it speaks volumes for the continuance of the Senate committee system. I believe that these committees are doing a wonderful job. I think that al! honourable senators are better informed as a result of the establishment of the committees and I am sure that the electorate also is better informed. 
I do not intend to speak at any length. As I said at the outset, I am only a new member on the Committee. But I feel the report is so good that I would be remiss if I did not associate myself with the congratulatory remarks that have already been offered to the members who compiled it. I believe that the goodwill and the friendship engendered by tourism must surely aid trade and other aspects of relations between Australia and New Zealand. I have selected the area of tourism because I believe it is one area from which a lot of good can come, not only from the economic point of view but also from the point of view of promoting goodwill between the 2 countries. I hope that we in Australia will take a broad enough view to realise that the flow of tourists cannot be just a one-way affair. I hope that Australia will encourage its own people to visit our neighbouring nation of New Zealand and I feel sure that the New Zealand Government will be stepping up its activities to try to encourage Australians to go to New Zealand. 
Once again I congratulate the retiring members of the Committee who were responsible for drawing up this report. As one of the current members of the Committee, I believe it was our task purely and simply to consider the draft report. Very little alteration had to be made to it. As I said earlier, rewards are due to the retiring members of the Committee. I commend the report to the Senate. 
You would not listen when they gave you advice. You disregarded the advice. 
Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  when he airily dismissed the half dozen or so Russian spies in this country and the lesser number of Chinese spies. It is a fact that espionage is occurring in Australia. 
Sabotage has occurred in Australia. Let me make it quite clear that when I refer to sabotage I refer to politically motivated destruction. The records are available publicly and in greater number to the Commonwealth Police and to  Senator Murphy  of the extent of politically motivated destruction in this country over the past four or five years. Subversion has also occurred and it is constantly a challenge not only to our intelligence body but also to the police forces of the States, and it is a pity that it is not a greater concern to the people at large. I wish to refer to the sorts of things which have been occurring for the past few months. I raise for the consideration of persons who are interested certain facts which have occurred, and whilst there must be some degree of reticence in regard to security matters I go no further than what is on the public record. These matters, I believe, would concern everybody. 
The first matter to which I wish to refer was dealt with in newspaper reports in February of this year. A headline in the 'Financial Review' of 28 February stated: 'Public rebuff to ASIO'. The 'Canberra Times' ran the headline: 'Pole not to get Visa- ASIO'. The Melbourne 'Age' had the headline: 'Government Overrules ASIO's Ban on Polish Shipping Chief. Information was set out in those newspaper reports which indicated that a longstanding ban of ASIO on a person coming to this country had been lifted. It is fair enough that the opinion of the Minister of one government would differ from that of a Minister of a previous government. That is to be expected when a change occurs. But what I think is very significant is that information that an ASIO ban had been overruled is not the type of information which gets out to the newspapers of this country, unless those who know the facts release them to the newspapers. It is not likely if one examines the probability that this is the type of information that ASIO itself would leak out. Of course, in the papers to which I have referred there was a unanimity of account. I will read the first few lines of the 'Age' account, which is datelined from Canberra. It stated: 
The Federal Government has overruled an ASIO recommendation to keep a Polish shipping official out of Australia. The former Liberal Government  effectively prohibited the entry to Australia of  Mr Edward  Lysakowski by pigeon-holing his visa application. 
It did this on the basis of a recommendation by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation.  Mr Lysakowski  is a senior official of Polfracht Gydnia, a shipping line run by the Polish Government. 
I think the significant questions which no one seems to have wanted to ask are these: In the first place, why was ASIO's advice overruled? Secondly - and I think this is the more important question - how and why was this information revealed to the Press? I have no doubt that it was revealed to the Press in order to suggest that ASIO recommendations were arbitrary and had no basis and had been demonstrated to have no basis by a new Government. This information was released to the Press to suggest that the Government was taking a strong stand against ASIO and indicating that ASIO was something that was against the current Government's interests. Anyone on a moment's reflection would recognise that ASIO would not make any recommendations unless it had a reason for them and that if a government acted upon the recommendations and declined to grant an entry visa it would be because it accepted what ASIO had recommended. If the present Government takes pride in what it has done and pride in the fact that it has given this sort of information to the Press I think it is the first indication of a general attitude to ASIO. There were other matters to which I will not refer, but which received some coverage in the newspapers about what the Government was doing in regard to ASIO. The next event, of course, was the ASIO raid on 16 March when the police effected what can be construed only as an unlawful entry into the office of ASIO in St Kilda Road, Melbourne. When the AttorneyGeneral arrived, as of course he would be entitled to do, and sought to use his personal authority over the Director-General, and the staff of ASIO were herded in an auditorium and kept incommunicardo while their papers were held it is no wonder that there would be the exercise of authority and intimidation upon the person who held the statutory authority. But we still do not know and I imagine we will never learn certain facts about that raid. That we are never likely to learn these things makes the whole exercise more suspicious. Why in fact in the first place did the Attorney-General go to the Canberra office of ASIO on the Thursday night, particularly in view of the fact that he subsequently said to the Senate that there had at no time been any withholding by the Director-General of any information which he had sought? 
One other matter again in regard to this raid is the vexed telex message which almost every newspaper in this country has published. From what I can gather almost every journalist in this country believes that it exists, but the Prime Minister and the AttorneyGeneral still refuse to table it in the Parliament. I certainly believe that it exists. I read from the account of the ASIO message something which ought to be taken up because it has a significance which has never been fully appreciated. I shall quote from the telex message as I have it in front of me in this newspaper report. It states: The section headed 'Ministerial Directives' read: "The Director-General was quoted by the AttorneyGeneral as saying that ASIO was not given proper Ministerial Directives by the previous Government in regard to Croatian terrorism. 
It must be said that until March 16, 1973, previous Ministers had maintained the practice of not giving detailed directions to the Director-General. 
This conformed with the original Chifley directive to "Maintain the well established convention whereby Ministers do not concern themselves with the detailed information which might be obtained by the security service".' 
It is apparent from that there has been a change in practice as from 16 March. That which had never occurred for some 20-odd years beforehand was occurring. Ministerial directives were being given for the first time. What we are never likely to find out is what those ministerial directives are. Obviously there is a change in the pattern of what is happening. Of course this is part of the general pattern which I feel is emerging as to the way in which ASIO is now being controlled. But what is the third fact? The third fact is the denigration by the Prime Minister of the head and staff of the security organisation when he went on a television vaudeville show approximately a fortnight ago. 
The next point - it flows directly from what I have said - is to look at the effect on the officers and staff of ASIO who are dedicated Australians working not for a political Party but for the nation. From the visit on 16 March they knew that they were not trusted by the Attorney-General otherwise he would not have sent in the police, nor would he have required the safes and containers to be sealed. They have been subjected subsequently to harassment by individuals. The numbers of their cars have been taken and the names of the registered owners have been procured. They have been subjected to painting on their gates and on their houses. Their names have been circulated on posters and pamphelts which have been published on city buildings and put into neighbours' letter boxes. All this has been done without a word of public protest or condemnation from the AttorneyGeneral. I asked him a question about this matter today or yesterday in the Senate and I was assured that these were mainly State matters and it was regrettable that some people should be interfered with at night by telephone calls. 
I would have thought that the AttorneyGeneral and Commonwealth Police ought to be far more concerned about what is happening than the Attorney-General has apparently demonstrated. He chided me because I said that there were members of the Australian Labor Party who were engaged in these activities. The particular person I had in mind was a Labor Party candidate at the last State election who went on television to justify and sustain what she was doing. She is actively a member of the Australian Labor Party engaging in this type of activity. One can only wonder what support within the Labor Party is available to her for this sort of activity. 
The next point I mention is the disbandment of the Special Branch of the Northern Territory Police Force. As the AttorneyGeneral said, only last week he had disbanded that force on short notice because he felt that itS activities were no longer necessary. But the Special Branch was established to secure information about espionage, about communist activities, about those who would disrupt and engage in sabotage - to do the sort of work which Special Branches of all police forces do in every State of this Commonwealth. This was put aside, disbanded and the records destroyed. Apparently the records were destroyed because there was no denial of it in response to the question which was asked. This indicates that one area of a police force which had amongst its functions the assistance of ASIO was simply disbanded and nothing was put in its place. 
The next point is what is happening under the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act. This is an area which is covered by an Act of this Parliament which was passed in 1960. In certain circumstances it permits the interception of telephone messages. This must be done in accordance with the Act and i know from my experience that it was done in accordance with the Act. But what has happened since the present Attorney-General took office? He answered a question in the Parliament earlier this year. The answer was given to the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  in the House of Representatives on 12 April 1973. The AttorneyGeneral indicated the number of authorisations for telephone tapping which had occurred in each of the preceding 10 years. They are not many and I know that there are not many. 
What I want to know and what I am tremendously concerned about is the reason for the reduction in the number of warrants since this present Government took office. I can only feel an apprehension that something relating to the security of this country is not being attended to in the way it should be. I know the logic of the position. Either the Attorney-General has revoked warrants as he has the power to do, or he has refused to authorise warrants which the Director-General has asked him to grant, or the DirectorGeneral has decided that he does not want any longer to have warrants operating in areas where they were previously operating. They are the only alternatives which I think are reasonably open. To me this is a matter of concern because of the knowledge which I had last year as to the position with regard to the ability of the security force to really look after the security of this country in the light of those figures. 
Finally, when one adds the great campaign which is currently developing of some honourable senators from the Government side denigrating ASIO to the newspapers, when one examines the spate of newspaper articles which are appearing, when one recognises the further articles which are to appear, when one adds to that the republication of a book about the Petrov affair and when one links this with newspaper articles, one can see swelling up a campaign in certain circles against our Security Intelligence Organisation. To me these are matters of concern. Possibly I view them with a greater concern than others because I have some knowledge derived from the fact that last year as AttorneyGeneral I knew something about the operations of ASIO. But this year, in the light of what I have said and in the light of what can be reasonably calculated, there is a different pattern entirely. Unless these things can be aired in this place, Australians can be deluded into believing that we have as' effective an intelligence service as we had in other years. 
I repeat what I said earlier: The Australian Security Intelligence Organisation over the first 20-23 years of its existence was one of the renowned intelligence organisations in the world. It had achieved things for which Australians ought to be grateful and of which they ought to be proud. It had avoided the problems which had beset the CIA, which had beset MI.S in England and which had beset the French service. We had a good service. Until when? Until 1973. Now I wonder how effective this security service will be in the light of the activities now being engaged in. I think the Australian people are entitled to a frank, full and complete statement of all that has been happening and the reasons for it, because it is only something which is stated and which can be tested which is likely to give confidence to those who feel that Australia's intelligence network is being dismantled in a way which will be disastrous ultimately to the security of this country. I do not believe that we will get such a statement because unfortunately the present Government is as secretive as it accused its predecessors of being. 
The  ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator Davidson)  - Order! The question is: That the words proposed to be added by  Senator Withers'  amendment be added'.  Those  of that opinion say aye, on the contrary no. I think the noes have it. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Is a division required? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - The question was put to the Senate, and it is my opinion that a division was called for by an honourable senator who disagreed with my ruling. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! I have no obligation to explain who called for a division. I am of the opinion that an hourable senator on my left called for a division disputing my ruling when I said: 'I think the noes have it'. I asked whether a division was required, which is done as a matter of course, following the call for a division on an honourable senator disputing the ruling from the Chair. It is my view that a division has been called for. The Senate will divide. Ring the bells. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Withers' amendment)  be added. 

 - Senator Little has posed in this chamber as the Montague Norman of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, but he and all of his colleagues are living in a state of anxiety neurosis. They are wondering what will happen to their merger with the Australian Country Party because if it does not come off they, as a political party, will face voluntary liquidation and become politically bankrupt. So why should we accept the financial advice of  Senator Little  as the guiding light in the treasury department of the Democratic Labor Party when members of that Party cannot keep their heads above water? Let us return to something which is a little more sensible in this debate. The only sensible contribution that  Senator Little  made was to say that the period of 15 minutes which is given to each  speaker  does not allow him to do justice to such a far reaching subject. One would require at least 2 hours and a week's research to deal adequately with all the conditions that are laid down in the matter of urgency that has been raised today. 
Most speakers on the Opposition side have endeavoured to draw attention to inflation because they feel that this can be a political weapon with which they might bring down this Government. But we on this side of the chamber are aware of the seriousness of inflation. We realise, as any responsible government would realise, that inflation is a matter of great concern. I thought that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  was quite frank in his 
Budget Speech when he said that inflation is one of the major problems facing the Government and one with which the Government will grapple in the future. Of course, honourable senators opposite would have the people who are listening to the broadcast of these proceedings and honourable senators in the chamber believe that inflation has been manufactured by the Australian Labor Party and that its rate of acceleration has been caused by the fact that the Australian Labor Party won the last election. What rot that is. I can recall that in 1 949 the Menzies Government was elected to power on the promise and pledge that it would put value back into the pound. After 23 years of uninterrupted antiLabor government, the former governments have betrayed that promise and repudiated that pledge. 
At the time when the Opposition parties took control of the Government benches in 1949 the rate of inflation was 8.4 per cent. But after the first Fadden Budget was introduced the rate cif inflation rose to 12.2 per cent.. After the second Fadden Budget was introduced- and I want honourable senators opposite to listen carefully to this- the rate of inflation in this country was 22.2 per cent- a figure never known previously in the history of Australia. That was the inflationary situation. In 1949 when the Opposition parties came to Government with the promise to put value back into the pound, the rate of inflation was 8.4 per cent. After 2 Budgets it had increased ' to 22.2 per cent. Those figures should be well known to honourable senators opposite, but all that they seem to want to do is to sabotage or torpedo the inititatives or policies that this Government wants to introduce. 
Those figures are there. They are not just figures concocted by me. If  Senator Young  thumbs through the history in the Hansard of this Parliament he will find that after the second Fadden Budget was introduced the rate of inflation was 22.2 per cent. If the honourable senator wants to come closer to home- and he has not done his homework on this subject- we will talk of inflation at the present time. The Leader of the Opposition in the other place  (Mr Snedden)  is on record as having said that he left the country with a rate of inflation of 4.8 per cent, whereas it is now running at 13.2 per cent. 1 
-That is what  Mr Snedden  is on record as saying, and  Senator Carrick  says that that is quite right.  Senator Carrick  may be interested to know that the leading article in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 23 August 1973 exploded that theory and dealt with the nonsense that came from the mouth of the Leader of the Opposition. The article claimed that  Mr Snedden  arrived at his figures by multiplying the December increase in the consumer price index by four and then told the people of Australia that that was the annual rate of inflation. 
It is well known by honourable senators opposite that the policy adopted by  Mr Snedden  in the August Budget he brought down was not to interfere with items that came within the consumer price index. That is well known in this chamber. That fact was highlighted at the time. By not interfering with items that came within the consumer price index he was able to ensure that there was an artificially low index. That was the simple exercise. One could not say that it was a cooked up arrangement, but one could use the language of the Treasury and say that it was a cosmetic touch-up. That was the position at that time. The index figures for the December quarter were purposely kept low. 
Let us analyse the 13.2 per cent rate of inflation that is being talked about by the Leader of the Opposition. It was arrived at by the same exercise, that is, by multiplying the figure for the June quarter by 4 and presenting it as the annual figure. Of course the figure for the June quarter was inflated, but there were inflationary factors in the June quarter over which the present Government had no control whatsoever because it had not been in power long enough to control them. Do I have to remind honourable senators that the consumer price index figures for the quarter ending June 1973 show, for example, that the price of meat had risen by 1 1 per cent and that the price of winter clothing had risen by 1 1 .2 per cent? They were increases over which the present Government had no control. The blame for the inflationary trend lies at the feet of those who have been the accusers today. It is a case of the biter having been bitten. What a hide the Opposition has to say that the accelerating or galloping rate of inflation has been caused by the action of the present Government. 

 Senator Little said that improved living standards were brought about by the previous Government and that his Party supported it. He said that his Party attacked the previous Government over inflation but was more or less proud of its record in improving the living standard of 
Australians. I claim that as a result of 23 years of Liberal-Country Party Government it now costs more to live in any capital city of Australia than it costs to live in New York. That may appear an alarming statement, but it is the truth. Honourable senators do not have to take my word for it; they can take the word of the American Chamber of Commerce, which carried out a survey in Australia at the end of 1971. Its survey covered a basket of 55 items ranging from meat to fresh and frozen vegetables, groceries, fruit and sundry other items. The lowest cost for that basket of items in any capital city in any State of Australia was $32.83. That was in Adelaide. The cost in the dearest capital city, which was Sydney, was $34.39. That survey was conducted in 1971 by a responsible organisation, that is the American Chamber of Commerce. What was the cost of the same basket of items in New York? It was $35.7 1 . In other words, it was approximately $3 more than the cost in Adelaide and $ 1 more than the cost in Sydney. 
But let us look at the matter in its true perspective and consider what percentage of the average weekly earnings the cost of the basket represented. The cost of the basket of 55 items in Sydney at $34.39 represented 40.5 per cent of the then average weekly earnings of $84.80. The cost of the same basket in New York of $35.71 represented 29 per cent of the then average weekly earning in the United States of $ 123.57. How can Opposition senators claim that during their period in government the standard of living was, as  Senator Little  claimed, the best in the world? The cost of living in any Australian State has become dearer than it is in New York City. 

 - Senator Little does not know what he mentioned. The Hansard report will show what he had to say. I have taken him up on this point to show that after 23 years of administration of this country by an antiLabor Government all we have to show is that the cost of living in any capital city of Australia is higher than the cost of living in New York City. Of course, everyone knows of the inflationary trend in the United States of America. Another point I wish to deal with is the statement by  Senator Cotton  about it being an Australian tradition to own one's own block of land and the home upon it. 

 Senator MccAULIFFEOf course I agree. But that tradition will soon be no more. 
I will tell  Senator Cotton  why. Honourable senators opposite should not come in too quickly because they will be shown as the cause of the trouble. The minimum price of an average block of land in an average suburb in Brisbane is $6,500 at present. The cost of building an average wooden home on that block of land is $12,000. By adding the $6,500 for the average block of land in an average suburb to the $12,000 cost of an average wooden home one arrives at a total price of $18,500. In order to obtain a building society loan for such a home, taking into consideration the charges imposed and the stamp duty, one would have to find a deposit of $4,200. To be able to obtain such a loan one also would have to have an earning capacity of $115 a week. I ask: How can anybody earning the average weekly wage of $ 100 or lower expect to be in the race to own his own home? Honourable senators opposite will say that is the situation which exists today. I say that is the result of 23 years administration of this country by an anti-Labor Government. 
Many years ago the land component in the purchase of a home and land was 25 per cent; today it is 50 per cent. What is the cause of that? The cause of this inflation- a type which is more serious than increases in items in the consumer price index- is the non-productive land speculator about whom the previous Government did nothing during its 23 years in office. I claim that a land gains tax must be introduced. I think it is long overdue. One should be introduced as quickly as possible and in such a way that the tax cannot be passed on. I believe that this may mean allowing a certain percentage per annum in capital gains to be made. An allowance of 7 per cent per annum may have to be made. But any additional increase on top of that should be taxed at the rate of 100 per cent. I think that is the only way in which we are going to be able to reduce land prices and make land available to those young people who are desirous of owning their own home as well as restore in the community the chance to achieve the old ambition of everybody to own his own land and a home upon it. 
If time permitted I could give the reasons why the price of land is so high today. The speculator and the land developer are responsible. But my time is about to expire. What I have to say in that respect will be kept for the Budget debate. I strongly oppose the urgency motion sponsored by  Senator Cotton.  I hope that the Senate will give it the treatment which it deserves and throw it out. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  said with some satire during his contribution to the Budget debate that this Budget could be the last that this Government would bring down. The honourable senator, who is well known to us on this side of the Senate, is not often completely right. More often than not, he is only partly right. This could be one of those occasions when he is only partly right. What he said has some credence in that it could be the last Budget that this Government will bring down in this Parliament. If the Opposition persists with its tactics of frustrating the Government from introducing its legislative program and denying it the opportunity to implement the policies which it has a mandate from the people to implement it could very well be the last Budget of this Government. We could go to the people in a double dissolution of the Parliament. 
Surely to God Opposition senators do not think that the Australian public is so nonsensical that it would turn this Government out of power so soon and return to the conditions that existed prior to December 1972 when the Australian Labor Party came to Government? People can remember what the conditions were like prior to December. They know the state of affairs in which the economy was placed and the stop-go method of approaching things. There was no planning. There was despair in the community and a lack of confidence. It was so apparent to everybody that even the anti-Labor newspapers which traditionally have been against Labor openly and publicly castigated the then Government and did everything in their power to organise and bring about a change of government. Those newspapers have been against Labor ever since there has been an Australian Labor Party. Many people in organisations which were as traditionally anti-Labor as the newspapers were, in public statements in the Press, said that things were so bad that confidence in the community had been destroyed and it was about time that there was a change of government. Those people who, over the years, had been traditional antiLabor supporters supported the Australian Labor Party and helped to return it to government. They looked to the Labor Party. Why did they look to the Labor Party? They looked to the Labor Party to put the affairs of this country in order, to introduce some sanity into the economy and to bring in progressive policies which had some initiative. 

 Senator Withers seemed to suggest that we would be in trouble over our Budget. I assure him that the ones who would be in trouble if there were a double dissolution would be himself as the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber and  Mr Snedden,  the Leader of the Opposition in the other place, because when the anti-Labor parties were defeated at the polls, which they most assuredly would be, their colleagues here and in the other place would want a spill of leadership and would be looking for new leaders. The 2 Leaders would be the only people who would be in trouble. I would feel very much distressed and I would regret very much if those circumstances did come about. I hope that the Leader of the Opposition in this place and the Leader of the Opposition in the other place keep their positions for many years to come because neither of them has shown any ability to lead his Party successfully in an election. What is more important, neither of them has shown any ability to forecast accurately. So we hope that this state of affairs does not come about. We would regret it if it did. I repeat that the only people who would be in trouble would be the Leader of the Opposition in each House because there would be a spill of positions and their colleagues would elect new leaders. 
The Leader of the Opposition in this chamber seemed to give the impression that the Labor Party was relying on the Budget for electoral popularity. This is not so. In the months in which the Labor Party has been in power it has relied on its progressive policies and its initiatives. It feels confident enough to know that when it has to go to an election it will stand on its own feet. It will rely on those policies. The Budget is an economic and social document. It was not introduced to gain electoral popularity. It wai brought in by a responsible Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  with due regard to all the circumstances. If we have to go to the electorate we will stand on our policies, and we will be capable of winning on them. 
-Senator Wright can lead the cheer squad for Opposition senators. I remind him of what I said in this chamber shortly after the Parliament was opened. I said that in the first 100 days the Whitlam Ministry achieved more in the way of legislative policy than the previous anti-Labor governments had achieved in 23 years. The people of Australia will recognise that fact. 
There are many items in the Budget on which one could speak- social services, education and other things- but I was always told that a postscript should never be added to a good letter. I think the Treasurer has produced a good letter. The Budget has already been canvassed by previous speakers on this sic 3. On this occasion I prefer to direct my attention to what I said during the debate on the matter of urgency yesterday when time did not permit me to finish my speech. I wish to deal with spiralling land prices and the reason for them. I think the inflationary rise in land prices- the galloping inflation in land prices- is more serious than the inflation in the consumer price index. I think that the Senate should be directing its attention towards doing something to remedy that inflation. Honourable senators will recall that yesterday I said that the average block of land in an average suburb in Brisbane now costs $6,500, and the cost is still spiralling. It will not be long before it is $10,000. The average cost of a wooden home is $12,000. If the 2 figures are added, the total is $18,500. The prospective home buyer has to find a deposit of $4,200 and must have a wage of $1 15 a week before he can obtain a building society loan. This is in excess of the average weekly earnings of $ 100 a week. This cost does not take into account that the buyer has to furnish his home. So honourable senators can see that the average working man today is not in the race in buying his own home. 
Honourable senators will agree that a traditional part of our way of life is that everybody aims to own his own block of land and to build a home on it. I hope that the Senate will permit me to direct my attention to the land price scandal, as I call it. The Australian tradition of a person owning his own home on his own block of land soon will be no more. The reason is that the price of land is increasing out of all proportion. Five years ago the land cost component of the price of a block of land and a house was 25 per cent. Today it is nearly 50 per cent. Yesterday I told the Senate of the plight of the young man who wants to buy a home. I have repeated it today because it is worth repeating. Unless he is earning $1 15 a week and has a deposit of $4,200 he has no hope; he is not in the race in owning his own home. This is occurring not only in Brisbane or in Queensland; it is the situation throughout Australia. Recently a  Mr Alan  Vogan, the  President  of the Urban Developers Institute of Australia, was reported as saying: 
I think that we have to act urgently because the price spiral is socially and morally wrong. 
Very few people will disagree with that statement. It is a correct statement, but nobody is interested in pious words.  Mr and Mrs Average  in the street want to know the cause of the spectacular increase in land prices.  Mr Vogan  also said: 
The real cost of land comes from the profit of the original vendor, the high standards demanded and from the carrying costs a developer bears. 
I ask the Senate to remember those 3 points.  Mr Vogan  was supported by another person who has some right to speak with expertise on these matters.  Mr Brian  White, of Ray White Pty Ltd, a major Queensland real estate firm, said: "he reason for the high land price is a case of supply and demand. 
That statement is true. I believe that more land would be available for those who are genuinely interested in using it if the people who bought the land had to build on it without a certain period. I claim that, if there is a covenant or a clause that after having purchased the land a person has to build on it within a reasonable time, this would stop the speculator from buying land and would make more land available for the genuine home builder. 
Some weeks ago, because I was researching this item and because I wanted certain information, I asked a question in the Senate about the percentage of subdivided residential land sold to speculators and the percentage sold to people who intended to build a home of their own. The reason why I asked the question was that I genuinely felt at the time- I still do- that if that information were disclosed and made public, and if there were an imbalance which could be corrected, we would be getting at the centre of the problem. It must now be apparent to all those who display an interest in this field that the land speculator is the cause of the land price scandal. All honourable senators here will recall that the stock exchange boom burst in 1971 and that those speculators then looked for other avenues for investment or speculation. It is not just coincidence that the stock exchange bubble burst in 1971 and that this enormous boom in land prices occurred. The plain fact is that the people who no longer thought it exciting or profitable to play the stock exchange directed their attention to and speculated in land where they could see sure, safe, large and quick profits. 
The other important fact about their speculating in this field was that it appeared to be beyond the capacity of government to control those spiralling prices. I think it is fair comment for me to make in this chamber this afternoon that had there been a genuine desire on the part of the 
State anti-Labor governments and the then Federal anti-Labor Government to control what they regarded and publicly stated as a normal free enterprise activity- the use of capital to make profit- we would not have been put in the serious situation in which we are today regarding land prices. I think it is fair comment to make here that it was the attitude of all the anti-Labor governments in the State Houses and of the then Federal Government in this place that they had no desire to control what they regarded as a normal free enterprise activity: The use of capital to make a profit. Land developers knew that they could sell land and put a price on it according to the demand that there was for it. They knew they could subdivide the land and, having subdivided it, put it on the market and if speculators were still prepared to pay the price they could put the price up at any time they wanted to do so. True, from 1971 onwards local authorities in the various areas told the developers that they would have to provide more services such as sewerage and underground electricity supplies. 
I am not going to be pinned down to the exact figure. I am trying to develop the case that this great spiralling of prices started in 1971 and that it is not a coincidence that it happened when the stock exchange bubble burst in 1971. But these extra services were brought in - 
If the honourable senator wants it in detail of fact and figure I will supply it to him later. But for the purpose of developing this argument I repeat that local authorities asked developers to provide extra services such as sewerage and underground electricity. These are good things and no one could raise any objection to them. Honourable senators will recall that the sub-dividers at first threw their arms into the air and said: 'This will add costs to the already inflated price of land'. But when they found that the speculators were still prepared to pay the prices they were asking, even after they supplied these services, they just forgot all about that problem, except that they turned the story round and when they were under attack about the inflated prices which they were asking for their land, they said: 'Do not blame us. Blame the local authorities who have added these extra costs by asking us to provide these additional services'.  Senator Wright  need not take my word for it, for that is exactly what  Mr 
Vogan referred to as 'the high standards demanded'. That is quoting him precisely. He also referred to the carrying cost which the developer bears. 
I want to stress in this chamber that what the developer does not tell is this: Depending on the cost of raw land, which can cost as little as $3,000 a block for acquisition, holding, construction and realisation costs, these blocks in Brisbane are at the moment selling for upwards of $6,500 and, as I said previously, it will be only a matter of time before they cost in the vicinity of $10,000. Nobody, as I said before, objects to the local authorities asking developers to provide these additional services such as sewerage and underground electricity. They are necessary services and everybody is prepared to pay for them. But what the average home seeker is objecting to is the high mark-up in addition to the top cost which is put on land by developers. Evidence has been produced that the mark-up price has been as high as 100 per cent. While speculators- and this is the message I want to give to the Senate this afternoon- are prepared to pay the price, the home seeker will continue to suffer. Speculators are withholding land so that they can get higher prices. This is land which would otherwise be made available to home builders. Later in my speech I will produce proof that the developers are withholding land. I asked a question in this chamber and I was flooded with letters from developers asking me to state where this land is and what land they were withholding. I take this opportunity of the Budget debate to tell them and the Senate where that land is which they are withholding so that high prices can be maintained for it. 
What are the speculators doing? Everybody on this side of the chamber knows what they are doing, and I am sure that if honourable senators opposite will be honest about it they will say they know what the speculators are doing. The speculators are withholding land which would otherwise be available for home builders. They are buying out estates as soon as they are released and after adding $1,000 or $2,000 a block they are immediately offering those blocks for resale. These blocks are sold three or four times before they are eventually sold to the home buyer, and as a result the eventual home buyer has to pay the capital gains which are made on three or four sales. One has only to go to the Queensland Stamps and Titles Office to see that there is a lag of nearly 2 years in the search for documents, not because more land is being transferred from A to B and stopping there but because before it gets from A to B it has changed hands six or seven times and the Stamps and Titles Office cannot possibly keep up with it. It is common knowledge that these blocks change hands three or four times before being built on and the capital gain is added all the time. Then when the genuine buyer seeks to purchase a block to build a home on it he has to make up for the inflation that has been brought about by these deals. 
Speculation is the major factor in forcing up land prices. It must be controlled and I am happy to say that the Australian Labor Party has a policy to control it. It is public for anyone to see, for in our policy speech and throughout our campaign we said the acquisition of land for subdivision on a leasehold basis with a convenant specifying building within 12 months would be achieved, and  Mr Uren,  the Minister in charge of the Department of Urban and Regional Development is presently drawing up plans to implement this policy of the Australian Labor Party. It has been said that something must be done immediately. Planning will take time, as was said earlier in this chamber. No person of common sense would expect the Austraiian Labor Party to correct in 6 months all the maladministration that went on for 23 years. So planning will take time. But for the short term I advocated in this chamber yesterday the imposition of a capital gains tax. I would like to have seen it as part of the machinery of the present Budget. I sincerely hope it will be in the next one. A specific capital gains allowance will have to be arrived at- for example, 7 per cent- and any gain over that percentage should be taxed at the rate of 100 per cent. 
Have I mentioned the same thing? 
I think that should be done. I am pleased that the honourable senator heard me say it again today. He will know that I am consistent in my advocacy. I have had opponents to my ideas. I have heard arguments advanced by opponents of a capital gains tax. They claim that it will create a black market and that people will pay 2 amounts. They will pay the legal amount in the first place and then will pay a second amount in another way. I have more faith in the Australian people. I know that the people who would want to indulge in that sort of criminal practice would be in the minority, just as in the taxation field those people who indulge in tax avoidance are in the minority, and it would only be a matter of time before they were caught. I believe this. If that is the best argument you can put up against a land capital gains tax. it is not based on a very solid premise. 
Another method that can be investigated- it is advocated- is a land price freeze. Opponents of this suggestion say that its effect is only of a temporary nature. A freeze may have the desired effect in the short term but immediately it is removed prices soar again and go as high as ever. At least all these things can be considered. It shows that we on this side of the chamber are doing our homework. We are putting some thought into this serious problem that is in the community today. It is all right for  Senator Wright  to smirk. He also was in the power base, the Cabinet and the Ministry, and could have spoken up and done something for the prospective home buyer. But he believes that capital should be able to make a profit, no matter how excessive it might be. 
What has to be done? I believe that the Government and all concerned have to face up to the situation and realise that land is not a speculative commodity. This is a chance to impose a tax to make it unprofitable. Until we do that we are not going to come to grips with the situation. I am sure that the result would be that the demand would come only from people who are genuinely seeking land on which to build a home, and that is what the name of the game should be. While it may not reduce land prices it certainly would go a long way towards stabilising them. One would expect that a reduction in the demand for residential land would automatically flow on to the demand for raw land. The demand for raw land would decline and with that decline there also would be a fall in the price of raw land. I believe that this is the sensible way for us to approach this very serious problem of spiralling land prices. The fault lies with the speculator. Until some action is taken by the Government to eliminate speculators from the field of land dealings the position is not going to change. 
I said earlier that during previous Senate sessions I had asked certain questions in this chamber about what percentage of land was available for speculators and what percentage was available for genuine home builders. Previously I claimed also that developers were withholding land in many areas so that prices would go up. I quoted certain projects and what I said appeared in Hansard. I do not propose to repeat what I said before but I want to give an example of what I said. There is the instance of Cambridge Credit Corporation Ltd which had 20,000 allotments in the Ormeau town development worth $66m but which would not be developed until 1980. I referred also to Alfred Grant who had some 14,000 allotments that were being withheld and would not be developed until 1982. 1 gave 2 pages of such instances. These figures were not supplied to me by the trade union movement, as was suggested at the time; they were figures taken from an official State government document in Queensland which was issued by the Public Affairs Department. That document shows developmental expenditure in Queensland in 1973. It refers to expenditure in southern Queensland. I think that total for that area was something like 70,000 allotments and an investment of $ 173m. Those allotments would not be developed before 1980. Of course, after having made that statement in the Parliament I received letters from the developers who asked me in what name the land suitably zoned for development which is not currently being developed or in the process of being developed' was held. All the letters stipulated- they were all similar- what land suitably zoned for development was not being developed. I did not mention land suitably zoned for development; I mentioned land being withheld. I wrote to one of the developers and expressed that opinion. In a letter dated 21 June I asked: 
a ) What land is currently owned by Hooker-Rex. 
When did Hooker-Rex apply for rezoning approval of the land. 
When was application made for sub-divisional approval. 
How long does Hooker-Rex think it will take before the land is available for sale. 
If you have just cause for delays in not having this land on the market, I would be pleased to hear of it and assure you of my assistance in remedying it. 
I received a reply from that firm which said, shortly: 
May I respectfully state, however, that you do not appear to have answered the request contained in my letter of 12 June last. 
That firm ignored my questions and skilfully turned the game around and referred me back to land suitably zoned for development. 

 Senator M cAULIFFE And I have responded, as a good soldier should. The honourable senator will find that I will respond to him if he ever puts me to the challenge. I wrote back to that company and pointed out that I did not mention land suitably zoned for development. I pointed out that the reply I received was evasive, to say the least. I was not talking about land zoned for development. I said:  by choosing to answer in such a way I am led to believe that your Company or an Associate Company of Hooker Corporation Ltd must be withholding land. Your refusal to supply information regarding local authorities' delays with regard to sub-division gives further credence to this assumption. 
Here is the punch line because I produced the proof. I said: 
I am now informed that the land I referred to as being withheld by your Company, Middle Park, Jindalee, of some 1,300 allotments, is actually held by an Associate Company of the Hooker Corporation Ltd, but here is a perfect example of what I was referring to in the Senate. 
This Middle Park sub-division has been sitting untouched in the middle of the Jindalee area while prices have increased from an average of $8,000 in January 1972 to an average of $16,000 (Westlake) in June 1973. Admittedly, the land at Middle Park is not as desirable as that at Westlake, but with the high prices obtained at Westlake and the fact that Middle Park will be the last area available at Jindalee, the Corporation will no doubt be asking extravagant prices for it. I believe, but would be willing to be convinced otherwise, that this land is being deliberately withheld off the market in order to make exorbitant profits. In the period January 1972 to June 1973 total costs of sub-division have risen to nowhere near the same extent that prices have and I can only conclude that profits which I believe the community would also consider exorbitant are being made. 
That letter is dated 10 August. I responded adequately to the request made by the company. I have received a letter dated 14 August which bears the signature of the general manager, and it reads: 
I acknowledge receipt of your letter of the 10th instant in which you now refer to the land in Middle Park, Jindalee which is actually owned by Centenary Estates Pty Ltd. 
There is no denial. The letter continues: 
Your previous correspondence and remarks were directed at Hooker-Rex Estates which is a separate division of the Hooker Corporation and it is not directly connected with the development of Centenary and its suburbs, which is the largest residential development in Australia. 
I have forwarded a copy of your letter to the General Manager of Centenary Estates requesting information regarding the land specifically referred to in your letter upon receipt of which will communicate with you further. 
It is more than one month since I received that letter and I have received no further communication because I have hit a bull's eye. So much for that. I have been challenged by the developers. I have only limited time at my disposal and I do not want to weary the Senate by repeating the litany of events. However, I could instance many cases similar to the one I have mentioned. If any honourable senator doubts it I am prepared to table the correspondence for his perusal later. 
I now direct my attention to another area. I have said that land is being withdrawn from the market and that speculators are causing land prices to soar. No government can be responsible in its activities if it does not do something about this situation. I now direct my attention to the Gold Coast area. I refer to Griffin Island and Andy's Island in the Broadwater off Paradise Point. They are referred to as being in portion 121 in the parish of Barrow. On 1 April 1969, under special lease 32810, a special lease was granted to a firm known as Coastal Reclamations Pty Ltd. The lease was granted for a term of 1 5 years at a rental of $ 100 per annum in relation to an area of 150 acres used for residential and business purposes. This lease was granted on agreement with the Gold Coast City Council and, allegedly, the Queensland Minister for Lands. One of the conditions of the lease was that the lessee should not in any way assign or sub-let the said land or any part thereof without the consent of the Minister for Lands. At that time the alderman for the area was the former Country Party candidate, Alderman Gibbs. 
That lease was issued on 1 April 1969. Let us move forward to 1971. In the interim Alderman Gibbs had been replaced as alderman for the area by Alderman O'Donnell. Alderman O'Donnell, being conversant with the situation in the area, successfully moved in the Council on 6 August 1 97 1 to have the area rezoned as public open space so that it could be conserved as a natural area. It was to his credit that he obtained the approval of the Council in that regard. That occurred in 1971. At the subsequent Gold Coast City Council election Alderman O'Donnell was defeated by Alderman Gibbs who is the present alderman for the area and also the  chairman  of the Health Committee. There is a letter on the files of the Gold Coast City Council dated 24 July 1973 which reads: 
A company of which I am the General Manager, namely Marland (Queensland) Pty Ltd, is purchaser of an area of land being reclaimed under an agreement between Coastal Reclamations Pty Ltd and the Minister for Lands for the Crown. Advice that I have received from the vendors is to the effect that your Council has been asked to proceed and advise on the matter of rezoning of the subject land to urban zoning. 
As under the terms of the contract the purchasing company incurs the immediate liability of $2,500,000 and there are of course enormous consequent outlays in terms of roads, drains, sewerage and water reticulation to present a high class residential development, your urgent advice is requested as to the present position of progress made in the matter of rezoning. 
The sale for $2. 5m will take place only if the land is rezoned as urban. It should not be forgotten that this applies to land in relation to which there is a lease for 15 years at a rental of $100 a year. Now it is in the process of being sold for $2. 5m. What did the Council recommend on 7 September 1973, which recommendation was processed by the  Chairman  of the Health Committee, Alderman Gibbs? It recommended that prior to the commencement of any rezoning procedure the applicant and prospective purchaser be requested to submit basic plans of the development proposed for the purpose of looking into a legal agreement with the Council. Without wearying the Senate, the recommendation in effect is to rezone the land for urban development. 
It is reported in the area that at some time Alderman Gibbs had some association with Coastal Reclamations Pty Ltd and he is claimed to have had business interests with directors who represent Marland Pty Ltd. I do not know whether that is true. It is freely rumoured. However, it will be readily seen, having related those facts, that, irrespective of what association Alderman Gibbs has with Coastal Reclamations and irrespective of whether he has any association at all with the directors of Marland, Alderman Gibbs showed tremendous enthusiasm in having the area rezoned for urban development. I think it is in the interests of Alderman Gibbs that he and all the other people connected with this proposed development and the generous conditions that go with it be given the opportunity to explain their position. I believe that the Queensland Minister for Lands should instigate a judicial inquiry or some other inquiry into the matter as well as explain his own position, because it is of particular note that no land can be rezoned without the permission of the Minister. I do not know whether that permission has been granted. Knowing the Minister as I do, I am sure he will relish the opportunity to explain his position. I believe he should instigate an inquiry of some sort so that Alderman Gibbs and all those people associated with this matter can clear their names and explain their position. I feel too that the Senate should give some consideration to referring the matter for investigation to the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment, under the chairmanship of  Senator Keeffe  who is a Queenslander and who knows what is going on. 
I recall that on one other occasion I made certain allegations in this Parliament and at 2.30 a.m. I was challenged and refused permission to incorporate certain documents in Hansard. The accusations made by  Senator Wright  and some of his colleagues at that time were meant to try to defame me and make out that I was careless with the truth. Subsequently I tabled the documents which gave positive proof of my stand. Now on this occasion the same honourable senator interjects and asks where I got my information. 
His association with these companies? 
If I were the subject of rumours concerning land which was being let at  $100  a year and about to be sold for  $2.  5m, I would want the matter cleared up too. I would want a public inquiry so that I could put my cards on the table. That is all I am asking for. Even if it does not achieve anything else, it will prevent a piece of land which was being rented for  $100  a year being sold at the inflated price of  $2.  5m.  (Quorum formed.) 
-I seek leave to make a statement. 
What rot was spoken by  Senator Jessop.  He relished the idea that Opposition senators would be able to run over, as quickly as they possibly could, to  His Excellency  the Governor-General, with the amendment to the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General's Speech. I was originally the seconder of the Address-in-Reply. It was an excellent address. The Governor-General's Speech was one of the most progressive speeches by a GovernorGeneral.  Mr President,  I had some thoughts about whether. I should accept your invitation to accompany you. With respect, I did not go. I did not go because I felt that the amendment to the Address-in-Reply was entirely unnecessary and unjustified. I took as a precedent for my behaviour in this matter something that happened in the Senate in 1914 when  Senator Givens  was the  President  of the Senate. 
I took as the precedent for my behaviour on this occasion what happened in 1914 which was the last occasion on which a similar incident happened. The behaviour of the Labor Party then was the same as that adopted by the Labor Party on this occasion. I am sure that  His Excellency  completely understood our stand in not wanting to take over an amendment to an illustrious Address-in-Reply. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
What is being done, or can be done, to improve television reception from the Brisbane stations in the Gold Coast area. 
I am prompted to make a brief contribution to this debate. I am indeed pleased to know that the Opposition is not opposing this measure, despite the fact that during the Budget debate Opposition senators said that they regarded the Budget as inflationary. However, they did not respond to requests from honourable senators on this side of the chamber to indicate what revenue they would suggest that the Government should cut down on. Despite the contributions to that debate, by honourable senators opposite, they are not now game to oppose the humanitarian measures introduced in this Bill. They have come out into the open and said that they will support the Bill. I would like to congratulate the Minister for Social Security,  Mr Bill  Hayden, and the Government for honouring the election promises and also for giving top priority to this social service legislation. It will be recalled that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said in his policy speech that the Labor Party would pledge itself to increase age, invalid and other pensions at various periods until those pensions represented 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. I need not enlighten the Senate by saying that already, since the Government came into office in December 1972, 2 increases, each amounting to $1.50, have been made. Whilst they do not fulfil at this moment the Government's promise to pay pensions at the rate of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings, I feel confident that the Government will continue to give increases until this goal is reached; and I hope that the increase envisaged to be announced during the autumn session will be higher than $1.50, that it will be $2 or more, so that we will be fast attaining our goal of paying pensions which represent 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
The Government's goal of eliminating the means test in the lifetime of this Parliament also should not go unnoticed. This measure provides that people aged 75 years and over will be exempt from the means test for pension benefits. These are 2 promises that the Government made during its election campaign and it has already placed very high on its order of priorities means of fulfilling them. 
Before I conclude I would like to mention briefly that I bent every effort over a period of 2 years in this chamber trying to persuade the previous Government to grant further concessions to pensioners who require hearing aids. The old policy was that pensioners who were entitled to receive a hearing aid had to pay $10 rental for the aid and then purchase service batteries for that aid at their own expense. This was not a large amount, perhaps 60c or 70c every 2 months, but despite my persuasion and representations made in this chamber I was unable to persuade the previous Government to grant that small concession to pensioners, namely that it should abolish the rental charge and make the batteries available free of charge. As I said, I received no fruitful result from the previous Government, but I am very pleased to see that this Government and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  as is shown in the Budget papers, have now decided that the $10 rental fee will be abolished and that the service batteries for pensioners who require them will be free. This is in line with the humanitarian approach of this Government and I am sure that the provisions contained in this Bill, which now appears certain to receive a speedy passage through this House, are only the forerunners of many important legislative changes that will be to the benefit of our aged pensioners when they come into force in the near future. 
I rise to second the amendments moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy).  The amendments that he moved are to 3 Bills - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Durack)-  Order! There are no amendments before the Chair at this stage. We are debating the second reading of the Bills. 
Then I will debate the question that is before the Chair. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I would be grateful if you would do that. 
-Thank you,  Sir. Three  Bills have been introduced into the Senate. They are the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill, the Post and Telegraph Regulations Bill and the Post and Telegraph Bill. But before proceeding to deal with them I must comment on the remarks of  Senator Cotton.  He said that the whole chamber is in a state of confusion and that no one knows what the Bills are about. I submit that the only one who is in a state of confusion about the whole matter is  Senator Cotton.  He has had ministerial experience and he is a senator of long standing in this chamber but, with due respect, it is quite obvious that he has failed to do his homework on these Bills or he has not read his brief. He could have got a speedy briefing by reading the remarks that were made in another place by  Mr Nixon. 
It must become obvious to anybody who has read the Bills and the second reading speech of the Leader of the Government in the Senate that the underlying factor in these 3 Bills is to gain added revenue for the Post Office. Without additional revenue from tariffs, the Post Office would have little or no profit at all to reinvest in 1973-74. Those who know anything about the activities and workings of the Post Office realise that profits from revenue and borrowings from the Budget are the main means of finance and the way in which the Post Office can undertake new capital investment. Therefore, reinvested profits enable the Post Office to meet the demand for service at a higher level than would be the case if the Post Office depended solely on the finances made available to it from borrowings from the Budget. Surely that must be a simple exercise in arithmetic. If you have the additional assistance of profits from revenue, coupled with the borrowings from the Budget and the Treasury- if you have those 2 things working for you- you must be able to meet the demands for service at a higher level than would be the case if you were left solely to depend upon finances from the Budget. 
This is the main reason behind the alterations contained in these Bills. They are to give additional revenue to the Post Office so that it will be able to reinvest profits in its works. With the revised charges that are proposed, a profit of $50m will be available for reinvestment. This is to the order of $42m that was available in 1972-73. In 1972-73 approximately 57 per cent of the funds needed by the Post Office were provided through Budget borrowings and approximately the same amount will be provided through the Budget borrowings in 1973-74. That gives one some idea of the finances that will be available. It has long been established that the revenue derived by the Post Office from tariffs and from Budget borrowings approximate the same amount; the ratio is roughly 50/50. 
The Budget borrowings have been provided for in the Budget, but of course the Bills to enable the revenue to be raised by the Post Office have to be passed by this chamber. When the Bills were being introduced I noted that they are required to receive royal assent by 1 October. I am wondering whether the submission made by  Senator Cotton  was designed to delay and frustrate, which has been the pattern followed when this Government has endeavoured to pass urgent legislation in this chamber. I prefer to accept his explanation that his submission was made for the purpose of clarification. I hope that during the suspension of the sittings for lunch he will be able to do some more research into and make some more study of this matter and then come back into the chamber later and take part in the debate at the Committee stages as a more enlightened senator, and I say that advisedly. 
If any government does not want to take certain action alternatives are available to it. The alternatives available to this Government were to increase the Post Office share of the Budget. But if the Post Office were to get more from the Budget some other programs and projects of the Government would have to suffer, and this was unacceptable to the Government. The Cabinet gave due consideration to these matters and arrived at the view that no additional borrowings for the Post Office could be provided for in the Budget. The only other alternative open to the Post Office was to reduce the amount of capital investment and surely no honourable senator, whether on the Government side or the Opposition side of the chamber, would advocate that, because it would have a detrimental effect on satisfying applications for telephone services, which already are lagging behind. 
Sitting suspended from 12.4S to 2.15 p.m. 
-Prior to the suspension of the sitting I had pointed out that 3 Bills were being discussed by the Senate, that their main purpose was to raise additional revenue for the Post Office and that the raising of such additional revenue was the main issue for debate.  Senator Cotton  had offered the opinion that confusion seemed to reign everywhere. I can understand that he would feel that way because after the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill 1973 had been passed by the House of Representatives  Mr Nixon  and the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  had consultations regarding revised amendments and reduced tariffs which would be charged. It was agreed that as the Bill had been passed in its original state the proposed amended tariffs would be incorporated in the Hansard of that place and that when the Bill was before the Senate the necessary amendments would be proposed. 
I  present the following petition from 755 Citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The Petition of the undersigned (and those on attached pages) citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia and more particularly electors and permanent residents of the Coolangatta - Kirra - Bilinga - Tugun - Currumbin area of the City of the Gold Coast in the State of Queensland respectfully sheweth: 
1 ) That the use of the Coolangatta Airport by aircraft, especially 'Jet DC9's and Boeing 727V between the hours of 1 1 p.m. and 6 a.m. constitutes a major disturbance of the peace; and particularly of families with young children who are said to be terrified by the noise which at holiday times has continued throughout the night until 4.30 a.m. 
It is considered that a period of 17 hours should be sufficient for the Air Lines to use the facilities in any one day and for the residents to be caused to suffer the excessive noise created by the said jet aircraft. 
The undersigned respectfully request that the Coolangatta Airport be closed between the hours of 1 1 p.m. and  6  a.m. in line  with Brisbane,  Sydney and Adelaide. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should take action immediately to incur the Curfew as outlined in paragraph ( 3 ) above. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-As Chairman of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, I present the 145th and 146th reports of the Public Accounts Committee. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
I seek leave to make a short statement,  Mr President. 
I enthusiastically support the motion moved by  Senator Murphy.  Paragraph (a) states that the site for the new and permanent parliament house should be determined forthwith. 1 could not agree with that more.  Senator Wood  said that when he entered the chamber he had his mind made up, he listened to persuasions by other senators, he went outside, he consulted somebody else, he came back in and he changed his mind. This is an example of what has been going for many years. Let us have some action, not words. So I appeal to the chamber to support enthusiastically this motion, particularly paragraph (a) which provides that the site be determined forthwith. Paragraph (b) states that a joint meeting of the Senate and the House of Representatives should be convened to determine the matter. I support that paragraph, too. I could not care less whether the joint meeting is held in the House of Representatives or in the Senate. I know about the constitutional precedents and historical associations which have been referred to by honourable senators who have advanced those sentiments. They are entitled to their opinions. I am not disagreeing with them. I think that in the interests of progress and in the interests of getting a decision and getting on with a building which will enhance the reputation of the national parliament we should cast those matters aside. I suggest that we should support this joint meeting of the Senate and the House of Representatives. To overcome any difficulty as to whether it should be held in the Senate or the House of Representatives, we should clear the tables and chairs out of the Refreshment Rooms and the meeting should be assembled there. It could be presided over by the 2 Presiding Officers. 
Make it a meeting place of the joint members of the national parliament- senators and members of the House of Representatives. The 2 Presiding Officers could preside over the meeting. The Minister for the Capital Territory or the Minister responsible for steering the Bill through the Houses could act as the secretary and put the proposition to the assembled members. He could put the proposition: All those in favour of Capital Hill or against, or whatever the alternative proposition is. Let us make a speedy decision and do away with this humbug about who has the traditional right to declare the venue for the meeting place. 
Paragraph (c) states that planning for the new house should commence immediately. All of us agree with that. All of us agree that a speedy decision should be made. It appears to me that there is indecision only on the method of reaching a decision. I earnestly suggest to the Senate as a common sense proposition that we, as a body of parliamentarians of the national parliament, should meet in the Refreshment Rooms, presided over by both Presiding Officers. The secretary can put the proposition to the assembly. That work can be handled by the Minister for the Capital Territory. 
Did the Minister for the Media earlier this year express concern that payola was possibly being used to promote records and other products on radio and television? Did the Minister take any action to carry out an investigation into this matter? If so, what was the nature of the inquiries? As a result of the inquiries, has the Minister any additional information for the Senate? 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLANDBecause of the developments that were taking place and found to be in existence in some parts of the United States of America and the United Kingdom I determined that this matter should be investigated in Australia. I referred it to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board for inquiry and report to me. The Broadcasting Control Board has in fact conducted an investigation, and it has reported to me that because individual station managements are invariably closely involved in the selection of the record play lists it is a rare situation in Australia for disc jockeys to be solely responsible for the selection of the musical items for the stations involved. It would therefore appear from the investigations conducted by the Broadcasting Control Board that here in Australia the apparent rigid management controls of program content are proving an adequate safeguard against payola. 
There is another practice, colloquially known as plugola, which is the practice of on-air personalities giving advertising plugs to goods and services, including musical recordings, for which they could receive some personal consideration. The Board has recently issued a circular letter to all station managements on the matter drawing to their attention the undesirability of the practice of ad-libbing in the presentation of advertisements as this could lead to overcommercialisation. As the honourable senator would know, earlier this year I requested the Board to take action against any stations that engaged in over-commercialisation. 
-I present the report of Estimates Committee E on the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1973-74, together with the Hansard report of the evidence taken. Before formally moving that the report be printed I want to refer to paragraph 5 of the report because it is of some significance when compared with the reports of Estimates Committees of previous years. Paragraph 5 states: 
The Committee was not able to conclude its consideration of the estimates of expenditure for the Depanment of Aboriginal Affairs because of the great number of questions which senators wished to ask on Document A, Division 1 12, subdivision 3, line 01, an. amount of $70,050,000 for payment to the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Accounts. This included an item of $700,000 for support of turtle and crocodile farms, which were the subject of Senators' interest. Without expressing any opinion on these projects, the Committee recommends that this item be subject to continuing scrutiny. 
At this stage I would like to point out that it is not intended that the continuing scrutiny be carried out by Estimates Committee E due to the number of inquiries made, the information sought and the complex nature of the operations of the company involved in this matter. The Committee is aware that inquiries into this matter are being conducted at present by the Special Minister of State  (Senator Willesee)  and by the Auditor-General. It is felt that after the report of the Auditor-General is tabled and considered by the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Public Accounts, that Committee might decide to initiate an inquiry on this matter. 
During consideration of the Estimates considerable reference was made to what action the Public Accounts Committee should have taken in this matter. I do not propose to speak on that now. But when the Estimates are being considered by the Committee of the Whole I propose in my capacity as Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee to make the Committee's position quite clear to the chamber. I thank the Senate for its indulgence in allowing me to speak to this report, particularly to paragraph 5, because it is of some significance when compared with the reports of other Estimates Committees. I also hope during the consideration of the Estimates to discuss the delay that took place in the examination of the appropriations and to speak about the conduct of questioning. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 - Mr President, I want to apologise to you for having raised a sort of challenge when I did not get the call. I was just enthusiastic to get to my feet and when you gave the call to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  I felt that that may have closed the debate. I hope that you will accept my explanation. 
I am prompted to speak in this debate because one must have serious doubts about the sincerity of  Senator Wright  and  Senator Greenwood  when they respond when accusations of this kind are made. I must also now include in that category  Senator Rae  because he made some reference that a similar matter was introduced on the eve of the Queensland elections. I can recall speaking some months ago- true, it was on the eve of the Queensland elections, but that was coincidentaland I spoke to the subject on which I did speak because the Standing Orders of the Parliament provided me with that opportunity when the States Grants Bill was before this House. I spoke about Mafia type tactics being introduced into the gambling industry in Queensland and being organised by a panel of bookmakers in Queensland. That evening I was subjected to a very vitriolic attack by  Senator Wright  and  Senator Greenwood  who seem to be the heavy artillery for the Opposition in these sorts of things. They challenged me and made all sorts of accusations that I was using it for political purposes on the eve of a State election, that I had produced no proof to the Senate and that I was not able to document the evidence and place it before the chamber as proof of what I was saying. I accepted that and 2 evenings later, on the adjournment debate, I brought 9 documents before this Parliament as proof of the accusations that I had made about Mafia type tactics that were being introduced into the gambling and bookmaking industries in Queensland. Particularly, I sought leave to have the documents incorporated in Hansard. With great repetition loud noes came from  Senator Wright  and  Senator Greenwood  on each occasion that I sought leave, so much so that the House remained sitting until 20 past 2 in the morning. If anyone wants to read the pages of Hansard which record the history of those events he will see, without my going into them in detail, that the documentation which I produced was ample proof of the claims I had made. Furthermore, if further proof is required, the bookmakers concerned in Queensland have resigned and the association which they were using for their Mafia-like tactics was disbanded at the request of the Minister. 
But what concerns me more is that although that documentation was produced in this House- and I say again to the Senate that the bookmakers association which was being used as the vehicle for these Mafia-like tactics was dissolvedthere was silence from  Senator Wright  and  Senator Greenwood  on the question that they had erred in their accusations against me. They remained silent with the silence of Dean Maitland. They have still not apologised. But what concerns me even more was that after I had produced these documents in this Parliament my life was threatened by one of the persons mentioned. He said at Sydney Airport that he would get rid of me. Even though I made this claim in the Senate and produced evidence,  Senator Wright,  still in a cowardly manner, sat in his seat and forgot the whole incident. I must say that I cannot have any opinion of  Senator Wright, Senator Rae  and  Senator Greenwood  in these matters other than that they are false. I do not think they are sincere. I think they just do this for the sake of political expediency, to try to dodge answering the questions. 

 Senator Gietzelt was entitled to make the claims that he made. As a matter of fact, in my capacity as Acting  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control certain information came into my possession which influenced me to see whether I could persuade the Committee to inquire into accusations similar to those which  Senator Gietzelt  has placed before the chamber tonight. However, because a royal commission was taking place in New South Wales the Committee decided to leave the matter in abeyance until the conclusion of the royal commission. I think  Senator Gietzelt  had every right to do what he has done. I object to the attitude that has been adopted by  Senator Wright  and  Senator Greenwood  particularly in trying to say that these things are done for political purposes. I tell those senators: You still stand answerable in my eyes. Nearly 9 months have passed since I produced proof of the claims that I made in this place and I informed you of the threats that have been made on my life by these people. Yet you still sit there and you have not got the decency or the manliness to say: 'In this instance, I was wrong. You did produce proof. I erred in thinking that you did it for political purposes'. Instead you are trying to condemn  Senator Gietzelt  as you condemned me. I am sure that now he has been challenged he will produce proof. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 7.56 p.m. until Tuesday, 20 November, at 2 p.m. 
-My question is addressed to the Special Minister of State. Is it a fact that Queensland, as a claimant State, recently received $10m from the Grants Commission in the way of special financial assistance? 
Is the Minister aware that the Queensland Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  is squandering thousands of dollars of taxpayers' money by using a State Government aircraft- the only one in Australiato tour Queensland advocating a 'no' vote in the forthcoming referendum? Could this huge and improper expenditure of Government funds weaken Queensland's case for future grants from the Commission and thereby work to the detriment of all Queenslanders by reducing the amount available for expenditure on roads, schools, housing and so on? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Minister for Works. In view of  Sir Albert  Jennings' apparent interest in reducing the cost of housing will the Minister inquire why A. V. Jennings Industries in Brisbane has increased its house prices by over 40 per cent in the last year? As this company is a price leader in Brisbane, will the Minister ascertain the effect which this massive price increase has had on housing prices in Brisbane? Is it true to say that builders' margins have accounted for over 50 per cent of house price rises because neither wages nor materials have increased by anywhere near 40 per cent in price in the last year? 

 -As Chairman, I present the One Hundred and Forty-seventh Report of the Public Accounts Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a short statement. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and the Minister for Works. By way of preface I say that in reply to a question I asked yesterday regarding an increase of over 40 per cent in the cost of houses by A. V. Jennings Industries (Aust.) Ltd it was said that that company implied that the figures were incorrect and that the increase was 14 per cent. I now ask the Minister: Is it a fact that the price published by A. V. Jennings Industries in July 1972 of an Amberley type 3-bedroom brick home was $ 1 1,076 and of a similar Barwon style home was $ 10,249? Is it also a fact that the present prices of an Amberley and Barwon style home are now approximately $15,800 and $14,900 respectively, being increases of 42.6 per cent and 45 per cent which are much greater that the 14 per cent increase claimed by A. V. Jennings Industries and given in the Minister's reply to me yesterday? 
One never ceases to be amazed at the attitude of honourable senators opposite. The truth of the story is that they have not realised even yet that an election was held on 2 
December last and that the voice of the people was such that there was a change of government. The simple story behind this urgency motion, as is evidenced by many of the contributions made by Opposition senators in this chamber, is that Opposition senators have not resigned themselves to the fact that they are in opposition and that a new Government is in office. As my colleague  Senator Cant  said in his address, this urgency motion regarding excessive and arbitrary powers in Canberra is a phoney. The real reason behind this motion being moved today, particularly when the proceedings of the Senate are being broadcast, is to give the Opposition an opportunity to attack the Government and to express its spleen because it is no longer the government. 
Opposition senators have convenient memories, because 2 December when the people were asked to vote at an election was not so long ago. It will be recalled that prior to the election the Australian newspapers, which traditionally have been anti-Labor for a long period of years, were advocating on their pages a change in government. Big business which also has been traditionally anti-Labor and which has financed the election campaigns of Liberal-Country Party governments for a long period of years was also advocating that it was time for a change. We do not need to be reminded of the position of the economy on the eve of the election. We know that there was no planning in relation to the economy. People had lost confidence in the economy. They had lost confidence in the Government. Everyone knows that unemployment was at a high level. The record of the previous Government which was in office between 1969 and 1972 shows that in 1969 unemployment stood at 49,000 and that in 1972, when that Government was defeated, unemployment stood at more than 100,000, which indicates a proud record of an increase of more than 100 per cent in the unemployment rate in this country over that period. The only boast that the previous Government can make is that unemployment ran wild, the economy lacked planning, and the electorate generally had lost confidence in the government. By a resounding and overwhelming victory at the polls Labor became the Government. 
Let us analyse what has happened since the Labor Party came into office and the Twentyeighth Parliament started to legislate on 27 February. During its first 100 days in office, when the Opposition was ridiculing the 2-man ministry or criticising the Government in relation to other matters, this Government- the facts are recorded in Hansard for anybody to readachieved more than the previous governments had achieved in the 23 years that they were in power. The record speaks for itself. Since the Twenty-eight Parliament assembled on 27 February this year a record total of 232 Bills has been introduced into the Parliament-this was the figure as at 22 November of this year- and the session is still unfinished. Never before in all our history has such a wide-ranging, reforming program come before the Parliament. 
The next best to this record in the history of the Australian Parliament occurred in 1968 when 169 Bills were introduced into the Parliament and 157 were passed. It might be of interest to honourable senators in the chamber to know that of the 232 Bills so far introduced- there are more to come because the year is not out yet- 1 5 7 have already been passed, despite the fact that the Government does not have a majority in the Senate. In relation to the previous record of 157 Bills passed by the non-Labor Government in 1968, it might be well to bear in mind that that government which passed 157 of its 169 Bills commanded a majority in the Senate on almost every issue. It can be safely forecast that the record of this Government will comfortably exceed that of the Government in office in 1968. Surely this is not the action of a government which is drunk with power or which wants centralist control; it is the action of a government which has come into office, sprung into action and been prepared to legislate and do something. 
Let us have a look at the measures which have emanated from a government which, it is alleged, is self interested in gaining additional powers at the expense of the Australian public. The structural transformations carried out by the Australian Labor Government's legislative record include matters dealing with the Grants Commission, the Cities Commission, the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, and the Australian National Airlines Commission. Legislation has been introduced in relation to the Australian Industries Development  Corporation and  the Trade Practices Commission. Legislation which has been approved and which is waiting to come forward is concerned with the Exports Payments Insurance Corporation. Certain structural innovations have been carried out by this Government also. These have not been to the detriment of the Australian people and they are not the result of the actions of so-called power drunk bureaucrats here in Canberra. Legislation has been passed in this regard in relation to the Pipeline Authority, the Prices Justification Tribunal, the Australian Electoral Office, the Film and Television School, the Insurance Commission and the Commonwealth Teaching Service. Legislation has been introduced to establish the National Investment Fund, the Social Welfare Commission, the Industries Assistance Commission and the Schools Commission. Legislation which has been approved and which is yet to be introduced is concerned with the establishment of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority, the Export Bank and the National Parks and Wildlife Commission. 
No one with any common sense or any decency at all could say that any of those legislative measures have been to the detriment of any section of the Australian community. They are the hallmark of a Government that has shown initiative and sincerity in purpose, a Government that has shown a keen desire to honour the pledges that it gave when it was campaigning for the 1972 election. I heard  Senator Maunsell  from Queensland criticising this Government for implementing its election promises. No doubt ringing in his ears clearly still must be the promise made by a former Prime Minister and member of a former Liberal government-  Sir Robert  Menzies- who in 1949 promised to put value back into the pound. The Liberal-Country Party coalition was in office for 23 years, and that promise was not fulfilled. What Labor promises it will do, Labor will carry out. That is the record of the Australian Labor Party. Surely no one on the Opposition side will challenge what the Labor Party proposes to do in the field of education. 
It is said that we have ' broken a promise. I will answer that interjection in a moment. In the financial year 1973-74 this Government will spend $843m on education, an increase of $404m or 92 per cent on that spent last year during the term of the previous Government. For the 2-year period 1971 and 1972 the McMahon Government spent $40. 5m on government schools. This Government will spend 12 times that amount- $495m. How often have we heard it said in this chamber that this Government is opposed to non-government schools? Is it the action of a government opposed to non-government schools to increase the grant of the McMahon Government of $71. 5m to $192m? Let us look at the area of Aboriginal affairs. Honourable senators opposite can examine any piece of legislation and they will find that the performance of this Government compares more than favourably with that of any other government in the history of this nation. The 
Labor Government will spend $1 17m on Aboriginal affairs in 1973-74. This is double the amount which was spent in 1972-73. The significant improvements will be made in the fields of housing, health and education and in providing employment training facilities. Are these the actions of a Government that is seeking excessive powers and centralist control, or of a dictatorial Government that has a disregard for the welfare of its people? 
Let us have a look at how this amount of $1 17m will be spent on Aboriginal affairs. It will be spent as follows: $32.4m on housing, $2 1.3m on education, $ 12.9m on health, $9.Sm on missions and settlements, $ 10.8m on community activities, $2m on legal aid and $28. 3m on advanced programs. Surely this is the action of a humanitarian Government that has a regard for the wellbeing and welfare of the Aboriginal people who were disregarded by previous governments for so long. So much for education and Aboriginal welfare. 
Let us quickly analyse the activities of the socalled bureaucrats, the obsessed-with-power Government that we have in Canberra today. Let us have a look at the social welfare field. Under the Snedden Budget of 1972 the age and invalid pension was fixed at $20 a week. Already it has been increased to $23 a week in the Crean Budget. Under the Snedden Budget the combined married rate pension was fixed at $34.50 a week. In the Crean Budget it was increased to $40.50 a week. I could also refer to widows' pensions, to unemployment, short-term sickness and special benefits, to long-term sickness benefits, to supporting mothers' benefits and to the other humanitarian and social welfare legislation in order to indicate what this Government has achieved in 12 months. I repeat: Surely this is not the action of a Government that is rapidly concentrating excessive and arbitrary power in Canberra. Let us ask the Australian people whether all these things which I have enumerated regarding social welfare, education and so on have been achieved as a result of the rapid concentration of excessive and arbitrary powers in Canberra. They will give their answer at the first opportunity when this Government goes to the polls and asks the people for a mandate to continue the policies. Of course they are good policies. 
It was said earlier, by interjection, that the Australian Labor Party and the Prime Minister did not keep an election pledge regarding education. I presume that the honourable senator who interjected was referring to the lack of financial assistance to schools that fall within category 
There are some 1 14 of these schools. The Prime Minister and the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  were quite specific when they commented on this point in September 1972. They said that the financial assistance that was given to schools under the then Government would be continued in 1973, but that from then on financial grants would be granted on a needs basis. In order to have the record right, I will read the statement made by the present Minister for Education. He is reported at page 1936 of the House of Representatives Hansard of 26 September 1972 as having said: 
We take the attitude that in the coming school year of 1973 this Bill must therefore be allowed to proceed. But we give a fair warning that if we are in power, while there will be an expenditure on non-government schools of no less than the sum total that will be appropriated in this Bill, the appropriation will be reapportioned- it will be reapportioned on the basis of need. 
That is the promise that the Labor Party made in this Parliament on 26 September 1 972, and in no way whatsoever has the Labor Party repudiated that promise. 
During this debate reference has been made to inflation. One would think that inflation is something new; that it has come to light only since December 1972; that it was manufactured by this Government. Let me take the minds of honourable senators back to 1949 when the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government first came to power at the commencement of its 23-year term of office. At that time inflation was running at a rate of 8.4 per cent, but after the first Fadden Budget was brought down in 1 950, the rate of inflation rose to 12.2 per cent. After the second Fadden Budget in 1951, the rate was 22.5 per cent. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wilkinson)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Media. By way of preface, let me say that three major sporting activities- namely, Korea versus Australia in World Cup soccer, the rugby league ashes series between Australia and Great Britain, which Australia won, and the recent Davis Cup final between Australia and the United States have been telecast direct to Australian audiences by satellite coverage. Is the Minister aware of the keen interest in sporting programs televised by the Australian Broadcasting Commission which is strongly supported by a large Australian audience? Will he ensure a continuation of this policy by the Australian Broadcasting Commission? 
-As Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee, I present the 148th report of the Public Accounts Committee. 
Ordered that report be printed. 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to make a short statement. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction. In view of the rapid escalation of housing prices, has an overall review of defence Service homes property values been carried out so as to ensure that insurance is sufficient to cover the replacement cost of the houses? Does the Minister agree that deduction allowances for depreciation in the present situation of escalating values is a sure way of ensuring that properties are undervalued rather than correctly valued? Will the Minister take steps to advise all defence Service home owners and, for that matter, all home owners that their properties may now be undervalued for insurance purposes? Will he ensure that his Department keeps this matter under continuous review? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Services and Property. Has the Minister seen reports circulating since last Saturday that the Government intends to abolish compulsory voting at referendums? Can the Minister state whether there is any truth in these reports? 

 - Senator Little who has resumed his seat has charged this Government with deceit, misrepresentation, and telling lies. In no mean manner he has challenged this Government's credibility in its attitude towards this Health Insurance Bill. But let me recall what happened earlier this evening in this chamber when  Senator Webster  was speaking. He used his office allegedly to quote from a document which he said was written by a member of the British Medical Association. He used that document to defame in no uncertain manner the legislative measures which are before this Parliament When challenged to produce that document he refused to do so. He had no defence to support the opinions which he said were contained in that document. Yet  Senator Little,  who has charged this Government with deceit and misrepresentation and has challenged its credibility, was one of those who voted in favour of not requesting  Senator Webster  to table that document. I did not think I would live to see the day when among the elected representatives of the people, one of those charged with implementing democracy in this country, let alone a man in the highest office of the land, the Senate of this Parliament- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  Order! The honourable senator must not reflect on the vote of the Senate. 
Well with respect, I did not think I would live to see the day that a senator would not voluntarily table a document to support his argument. But of course this is in keeping with what has been happening for a long period of time. The national health of any country has never been dealt with in such a shameless, cavalier or callous manner as the national health of this country has been handled by the Opposition. I know that that is a serious charge to make. I have considered the statement and think that I am completely justified in making it. 
These Bills stem from a belief on the part of the Government that the health of the people is the foundation upon which all their happiness and all their powers as a nation will be built. The handling of these Bills by the Opposition, its strategy, its campaign, its indulgence in deceit and misrepresentation regarding the Government's purposes in connection with them have been in my opinion, and I am aware of the seriousness of what I am going to say, the most shameful procedures in the history of the Parliament of this country. As far as the Government is concerned, these Bills mark the beginning of a period in which the resources of this nation can and will be directed to the prevention of disease, the promotion of positive health and the treatment and cure of disease and disability. It is in effect the source of a charter for a national health program for the future. I believe that this program and our policy on education are two of the most progressive and humanitarian legislative measures ever introduced into this Parliament. The Government is entering a field that has a long history of obstruction and frustration. This is known to us and is equally known to honourable senators opposite. In fact nothing or little has been done by Federal Parliaments so that medical services can be available to all the people and not just to those who are rich enough to be able to afford them. We know that this set of circumstances has existed for a long time. 
The steps proposed to be undertaken under these Bills will form part of a national pattern of health as seen by the Government and will be directed towards the promotion of happy and healthy living for all in the community, not just those whose reach it is within because they have the money to be able to afford it. Enlightened thought throughout the world, representing all aspects of opinion, has stressed the importance and the need for governments to interest themselves directly in national health services. Even the medical profession is on record as saying that change in medicine itself has tended to increase the cost of medical treatment so that most people no longer can afford to be ill. There can be no doubt that with the advance of science and the increase in the degree of specialisation the cost of illness is beyond the purse of the average citizen. That is what these Bills propose to correct. The economic factor has been the most powerful argument in hastening the inevitability of a universal health insurance scheme. These Bills are designed to bring medical care within the range of those who at the moment cannot afford it. 
Despite the conglomeration of figures cited tonight by a would-be accountant,  Senator Little,  the true essence of the Government case is that 3 out of every 4 people will be better off under this scheme. I will look with interest at the Hansard report tomorrow when I can carefully examine the figures given to this chamber tonight by  Senator Little.  Ringing clearly in my ears are the thoughts of a former Labor Premier of Queensland who said that economists should be on tap but never on top. I am sorry to say that in your case,  Senator Little,  you are completely influenced by outside economists. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  Order! Please address the Chair. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, these Bills are neither revolutionary in character nor before their time. I believe that they are long overdue. Possibly one of the reasons why they are long overdue is that no government, particularly no government in the last 23 years, has had the courage to attack the vast number of problems associated with the medical service. The history of the scheme goes a long way back. Fifty years ago Federal Government had no legislative right to introduce laws governing health. The only health matters over which they had any control were quarantine and infectious diseases. It was the prerogative of the medical profession to care for the people. That was the system 50 years ago. I do not need to remind the Senate that over the years governments have been compelled by sheer necessity and in the interests of the people to take over more and more of the medical work. 
Let us examine the facts. This record will be available in Hansard for anyone to see. In 1936 the chaotic conditions of health services in Australia became so evident that the Government of the day, comprised of men who gave allegiance to the present Opposition parties- they were men with the self-same political persuasions of those who sit opposite- determined that there should be better co-operation throughout Australia in relation to public health. Therefore it established the National Health and Medical Research Council which consisted of representatives of the Royal College of Surgeons, the Royal College of Physicians, and officers of the Commonwealth and State Departments of Health. It was a very capable organisation. At the same time that this Council was formed and concern was being expressed by the Government,, there had been introduced in Great Britain a form of national control over medical services. The Australian Government invited experts from the United Kingdom to come to Australia to advise it on health matters. Those experts were brought here from Great Britain at great expense by the Government and history shows that they submitted very valuable reports. 
However,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  history records also that the conservative Government of the day was so niggardly that when it eventually produced a Bill to cover these health services, the scheme it proposed to introduce aroused such resentment among the people that despite the fact that the Bill went through the Parliament, hostility from the public was so strong that the Acts were never proclaimed. That is the history of people in 1936 of the same political persuasion as honourable senators opposite. Yet we find that honourable senators opposite now have the audacity to try to tell a Labor Government what it should do regarding health matters for the people of Australia. 
I come forward now to 1941 when the newly constituted National Health and Medical Research Council recognised the urgency of the need for a health service in Australia and gave a lead to the medical profession, to Parliament and to the people of Australia. It provided a scheme for discussion which it hoped would be taken up by the medical profession, the officers of the various Health Departments and the people. I want Opposition senators to listen carefully to this. The plan submitted by the Council for discussion provided for a salaried medical service. The Council was the brain child of the United Australian Party Government- the confederate of the Liberal-Country Party Opposition today. 
Unfortunately, the scheme became the plaything of the medical profession. The doctors were suspicious of the Government's attitudes. They claimed that it would destroy the existing service. The plan was never used by the doctors, or by any part of the medical profession, as it was intended to be used. In short, it was never given a fair go. How reminiscent those words are of what we are hearing today. The same arguments which were used against the schemes advanced in the 1940s are being repeated almost verbatim in the 2 chambers of the Parliament today. Recently I had the pleasure of having lunch with a former member of the Curtin Ministry. We spoke about the national health scheme. He said: 'The very same things that I am hearing today were heard in opposition to our scheme in 1948. 1 suggest to senators today that if they thumb through the pages of Hansard for the period they will see recorded in speeches the same arguments which are being repeated by the  Senator Littles  and the  Senator Websters  today'. 
In 1948 the National Health Service Bill was introduced into this chamber by the then Minister for Health,  Senator McKenna.  Although a lot of work and preparation had gone into that scheme and although it provided some sort of formula by which, the health services of this country could be improved, it suffered the same fate that the schemes before it suffered. It is interesting to read the Hansard account of speeches made at that time, because for months  Senator McKenna,  in his negotiations with the Australian Medical Association, was firmly convinced that due to his conciliatory manner and his diplomacy he was making headway with the profession, and the prospects of introducing a health scheme into this country appeared very bright until the time when the legislation was drafted and was about to be introduced into the Senate. To use the plain Australian vernacular, the medical profession dumped him. This scheme was pigeonholed, as all the other schemes before it were pigeonholed. 
Shortly after, when the Menzies Government came into power, it introduced a scheme. Its philosophy was that the scheme should be on a contributory basis. It thought that if people had to pay something towards the scheme it would stop people abusing the scheme by running backwards and forwards to the doctors if they had a score thumb or a toothache. We know that this scheme has not been a success and that today the cost of medical treatment to people who are sick is beyond the average person. I will not ask the Senate to take my word for that statement this evening. My colleague  Senator Mulvihill  dealt very adquately with this phase of the scheme when he quoted from the Nimmo report. The Nimmo Committee was established by members who occupy the Opposition benches today. I think it was established in 1968. It proved quite conclusively that the health services were inadequate in that they were not available to all Australians. 
I have the highest regard for the medical profession. My only complaint about its members is that they will not co-operate with this Government in its earnest endeavour to introduce a health scheme which will benefit and improve the lot of three out of four in the community. I would have liked to be able to associate them with the remarks of the British Medical Association.  Sir Lionel  Whitby, in an editorial in the Medical Journal' of 3 July 1948, on the eve of the introduction of the national health scheme in the United Kingdom, summed up the position very well.  His  statement then is applicable today, on the eve of the introduction of this Government's health scheme.  Sir Lionel  Whitby, the  President  of that august body, the British Medical Association, said: 
The cost of ill health is a burden on the family, and the startling advances made by medicine in the past 25 years have steeply increased the cost There is, therefore, a logical case of spreading it over the whole of the community so that those that are fortunate to remain in good health may help those who temporarily fall out of the ranks. 
They are the thoughts which I would have liked to be able to say were the expressions of the Australian Medical Association and an indication of the co-operation of its members with this Government in attempting something worthwhile and something, which no government has had the courage to attempt in the past 23 years. I believe that  Sir Lionel  Whitby's statement applies today, on the eve of the introduction of our national health scheme. 
We have heard a lot tonight from  Senator Webster  and  Senator Little.  I think that I am drawing a fair conclusion from what they said. They said to beware of the Labor Government because it is our intention to nationalise the medical profession and associated services. They have put this campaign of fear to the community to endeavour to have Labor's measures defeated. It is true that in 1 946 the alterations to the Constitution gave authority to the Federal Parliament to make laws regarding health. The power enables the Government to proceed with the services set out in this Bill. There is no breach of the Constitution, there is nothing underhand or secretive about the Government's intentions. It is acting well within the framework of the Constitution and under the legislative powers available to it. It has had the courage, the foresight and the humanitarian outlook to introduce this Bill. As a member of this Government I say now- I am sure that this feeling is shared by my colleagues- this Government does not contemplate, nor does the Constitution permit, any nationalisation of doctors, dentists or members of allied professions or occupations. This is not our intention. It cannot be shown in any document that it is the opinion, the principle or the policy of the Austraiian Labor Party. All that the Government seeks, all that it sought in 1948 and 1943 when it endeavoured to introduce health measures into this Parliament and all that it is concerned about is the hope that it will get the co-operation of the medical profession to develop the national health of the people of Australia. I firmly believe that it is entitled to get that co-operation. 
It is not the Labor Party that the medical profession has to fear. I have shown earlier that in 1936 the National Health and Medical Research Council, which was established by the United Australia Party Government, recommended a salaried medical service. The members of the Council included doctors and officers of the various Commonwealth and State Health Departments. On 1 July 1943 the 6th report of the Joint Committee on Social Security was tabled in the Parliament of this land. On tins Committee were 3 members whom even any of us in our wildest dreams would not class as radicals. They were so representative of the hoi polloi of the Opposition parties that if they were around today the present members of the Opposition parties would genuflect in front of them. I refer to  Senator Sir Walter  Jackson Cooper, the Honourable John Arthur Perkins and Rupert Sumner Ryan C.M.G., D.S.O. In the unanimous findings of this report of the Joint Committee on Social Security on 1 July 1943 these 3 men came strongly down on the side of a salaried medical service in this land and that health centres should be established at various areas in it. 
Honourable senators opposite have thrown out the challenge that, through our socialist and doctrinaire policies, and all the other accusations that are made, the people of Australia and the medical profession have a lot to fear from the Australian Labor Party. Nowhere in the record of this Parliament is there anything that says that anyone on this side of the House has ever said that the Australian Labor Party will nationalise the medical profession or any of its associated professions. I feel that I have shown quite conclusively, and have quoted from the records of 1936, 1943 and 1948-not as  Senator Webster  did as a figment of his imagination earlier this afternoon- and the Nimmo report of 1968, that the health services of this country are unsatisfactory and that the Government, irrespective of its political persuasion, should be directing urgently its attention towards bringing about some national control of the health services in this land. Let the Opposition senators cease this charge that the senators on this side of the House want to socialise and nationalise everything. That attitude must be forgotten for all time. The Joint Committee on Social Security, 3 members of which represented the most conservative thinking in this Parliament- one would never have called them radicals- agreed that there should be a salaried medical profession in this land and that there should be a national health service introduced as urgently as possible. I submit that report to honourable senators opposite to read and think about before we reach the Committee stage of this Bill. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Media. As a result of the Government's making additional money available to the Australian Broadcasting Commission, has the Commission been able to engage in a greater quantity and a higher quality of live productions thus employing more Australian writers, actors and directors? Is the Minister aware that the program 'Seven Little Australians' produced by the ABC was very well received throughout the Australian community? What endeavours, if any, are being made by the Commission to sell abroad top quality programs of this nature? 
I am prompted to say a few words. I did not intend to speak but I feel that after hearing  Senator Wood  express himself in those terms as a senator from Queensland I would be remiss if I did not rise and dissociate myself from the remarks that he has made regarding the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Federal Government's treatment of the flood devastation in Queensland. I am sure he has been carried away with his hatred of the Prime Minister. A lot of the things that he has expressed are figments of his imagination. I am sorry to say that he handled the truth carelessly. Even the Premier of Queensland, whom one would not class as a great admirer of the Prime Minister, is on record in the newspapers and over the radio in Queensland as announcing publicly on many occasions that he was more than satisfied with the consideration that the Prime Minister and the Federal Government had shown in assessing the devastation in Queensland as a result of the floods. 
As I said at the outset I rise not to answer the charges made by  Senator Wood  because I do not think they have been made temperately. They have been most intemperate. He has been excited and fired by his bitter hatred, as he has expressed on innumerable occasions in this chamber, of the Prime Minister. Seeing that the honourable senator is on record as saying that he spoke to several people in Queensland who expressed their concern at the treatment handed out by this Government and the Prime Minister to Queensland, I feel that the record should be corrected and put in order to show that all sections of State government and local authorities in Queensland have been generous in their appreciation of what the Prime Minister and the Federal Government have done in Queensland. 
-In my capacity as Chairman of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, I want to make the following statement: The Joint Committee of Public Accounts has already resolved to conduct a public inquiry into the financial administration of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. This resolution followed the Committee's consideration of the Auditor-General's supplementary report for 1972-1973 where reference was made in paragraph 3 to apparent departures from the requirements of the Audit Act and Treasury regulations and to certain deficiencies noted in the financial and administrative control over the receipt and expenditure of public moneys and of moneys of the Commonwealth Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises. The Committee also resolved that it would not proceed to public inquiry on these matters until it had examined the special report which the Auditor-General was expected to table early in the autumn session. 
The duties of the Committee as set out in Sections 8(a) and 8(b) of the Public Accounts Committee Act make it mandatory for the Committee to examine each statement and report transmitted to the Parliament by the Auditor-General in pursuance of sub-section (1) of section 53 of the Audit Act 1901-1973 and to report to both Houses of Parliament with such comment as it thinks fit, any items or matters in those statements and reports, or any circumstances connected with them, to which the Committee is of the opinion that the attention of the Parliament should be directed. 
It will be the duty of the Committee, therefore, to examine the special report of the AuditorGeneral which has been tabled today and to decide on the information that will be requested from the Department by way of a submission on which to base the public inquiry. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, follows upon the question that was asked by  Senator Young.  Was there some breakdown in communication between the Australian and Chinese Governments when an invitation was extended for a ping-pong team to visit China and instead preparations were made to send an Australian Rules Team? 
Has the Minister for the Media seen a report that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board yesterday backed down from its ultimatum to the Channel 7 network to revise drastically the new television program 'Class of '74'? Is this report correct? Is the program 'Class of '74' still to be shown in family viewing time? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Media. Did the Government announce at the commencement of this financial year that it would be taking initiatives to increase the sales of Australian Government publications? Have the Government bookshops, established in the various capital cities, made any difference to the number of sales? Has there been any increase in revenue from these sales? 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that community involvement in film production overseas is being encouraged. 
What consideration is being given to this type of production by his Department, especially Film Australia. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation indicate to the Senate when the Australian Sports Council will be formed? What will be the functions of this Council? 
-Will the Minister for the Media tell the Senate what progress has been made with plans for the establishment of the proposed Australian Film Commission which was referred to in the Governor-General's Speech? Further, when can we expect to see in the Senate legislation for this purpose? 
I am prompted to take part in this debate this evening because the Opposition has elected again on this occasion to move an amendment to the Address-in-Reply that has been proposed by honourable senators on this side of the chamber. I agree with the Minister for the Media,  Senator Douglas  McClelland, who said that not only on this occasion but on 2 previous occasions the Opposition has set the pattern by moving these amendments and that in doing so it has moved the Address-in-Reply debate from the area in which it used to be where new members were given the opportunity to make their initial contributions in the chamber and other senators were given the opportunity to debate the Speech from the Throne. But now with the introduction of amendments, which is an innovation of the last 2 years - 
The honourable senator says 'No'. If he would do some research he would find that last year was the first occasion for a quarter of a century that the senators who moved and seconded the Address-in-Reply- it was my honour to be the seconder, while  Senator 
Primmer was the mover- declined to take the Address-in-Reply to  His Excellency  the Governor-General. That is why I am prompted, as I said earlier, to speak on this occasion.  Senator Wright  is shaking his head. When I first came into this chamber I heard the scholarly contributions the honourable senator would make. One could find his name as a member of the committees that were considering constitutional reforms, the Standing Orders or any of the other more serious subjects that were debated in this chamber. Yet although he was a signatory to a lot of these decisions and conclusions including, notably, the recommendation of the Constitutional Review Committee on electoral reform, when the Bill implementing the recommendation came before the House he repudiated his signature. I can only conclude that  Senator Wright  is a millionaire in words but a bankrupt in ideas. 
Addressing myself to the reason why I am on my feet, I would like to begin by saying how impressed I was by the maiden speeches of my colleagues  Senator Melzer, Senator Grimes, Senator Button  and  Senator Mcintosh.  I feel that their presence in this chamber will considerably enhance the Senate. Whilst we on this side of the chamber would not be expected to agree with everything that falls from the lips of honourable senators opposite, I also want to take this opportunity of congratulating those new honourable senators opposite who have spoken on the way they have acquitted themselves in their maiden speeches in this House. All honourable senators who come newly into this chamber without parliamentary experience, no matter on which side of the chamber they may sit, will find that we are willing to help them in any way we can, having drawn on any experience that we might have. That is one thing in this chamber that is very commendable. In the necessarily limited time at my disposal this evening I shall not endeavour to traverse all the fields outlined in the speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General. However, I propose to say a little on two or three items. In the first place, however, I would like to follow up the remarks of the previous speakers in congratulating you,  Mr Acting President,  on your elevation to the position of  Chairman  of Committees. I would hope that you would convey to the  President  my congratulations on his elevation also. Because of my knowledge of both of you in this chamber I have no fears whatever that you will not carry out your duties with dignity and impartiality. 
At this stage I would like to take our minds back to the closing stages of the last Parliament. 1 can well remember the stance of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  when he stood and challenged us. He looked across to this side of the chamber and said: 'Either you go or we will push you into a double dissolution'. I think that honourable senators on this side of the chamber reminded Opposition senators at that time that the only losers in any double dissolution would be themselves. History has proved us correct. There have been more tragedies among senators than among members of the House of Representatives. So tragic were the  results  for the Opposition in this place that one of its strongest allies has been completely banished and annihilated and is now extinct. I refer to the Democratic Labor Party. Of course we see also the change that this chamber is now presided over by a  President  who was the nominee of the Government side. I know that honourable senators opposite would not want me to have a heresy hunt or to start investigating the events of yesterday when that gentleman was elected to the Presidency not with the support of the Independent members in this chamber but with the support of a Liberal or Country Party Opposition senator who defected, and who defected at a time when the Leader of the Opposition in the other place was endeavouring to castigate the Government for not having complete control over its members or being able to discipline the Party. I think that it is at least to our credit that our loyalty was solid to the nominee from within our Party.  Senator Garrick  interjects and asks How do you know'? They are some of the events that came as a result of our being forced into a double dissolution. Yet we find that honourable senators opposite are still setting out with the same strategy that was employed in the closing stages of the last Parliament. 
I never cease to marvel at the attitude of honourable senators opposite in not accepting the decision of the Australian electorate. They did not accept it after December 1972. Throughout the period from December 1972 until 18 May last, until the last election, they seemed to feel that like the Stuarts' divine right of kings, they have a divine right to occupy the Government benches, that it is not their place to be on the Opposition benches. The way they acted, the way they obstructed legislation that came from this side and their general behaviour in this House gave the impression that they were not prepared to accept the decision of the electors on that occasion. They are shaping similarly now; they seem not prepared to accept the decision of the electors on this occasion. They remind me of an incident concerning Patsy Hendren the great international cricketer. He was at the crease and the bowler appealed for leg before wicket. The umpire raised his hand but Hendren said: 'I am not out'. The umpire said: 'Have a look at tomorrow morning's 'Herald' to see whether you are out or not.' My advice to honourable senators opposite is this: The people have spoken on 2 occasions in less than 2 years. Accept your destinythat is, to be in Opposition. Let us get down to business and legislate for the benefit of this country. 
The main attack that has been made against the Government, and which no doubt will continue to be made against the Government, refers to our failure to do anything about inflation. One would think that inflation had been manufactured by the Australian Labor Party and that it was the product of a Labor Government. If one took notice of senators opposite one would believe that inflation was not known in any other country and that it had been manufactured in this country as a result of the actions of the Australian Labor Party. We hear about the rate of inflation being 13 per cent per annum and that it was 4 per cent when the previous government went out of office. Senators opposite are prophesying that in no time the rate of inflation will be 20 per cent per annum. I remind honourable senators opposite that in 1949 when the Labor Government went out of office inflation was running at 12'A per cent. In 1950 the late  Sir Arthur  Fadden was the Leader of the Country Party and the Treasurer in the Menzies-Fadden Government. He was a giant of a Treasurer when compared with the Opposition pigmies who are masquerading as Opposition spokesmen on Treasury matters today. When he brought down his first budget inflation was running at 13.4 per cent. When he brought down his second budget in 1 95 1 inflation was running at over 20 per cent. 
As previous speakers have reminded this chamber the Menzies-Fadden Government came to power in 1949 on the promise that it would put value back into the pound. We know that after 25 years of occupying the Treasury benches Liberal-Country Party governments have repudiated that promise to the electorate. I want honourable senators opposite to ponder those figures of inflation that existed in this country in 1 950 and in 1 95 1 . Senators who occupy the benches opposite at present follow and accept the same political philosophies as the supporters of Menzies and Fadden did in 1950 and 1951. They are the people who today are moralising and trying to take us to task on our handling of the economy. When they were in power they were responsible for record unemployment. 
More bankruptcies in small businesses and industries occurred during their regimes than in any others. The loss of production and the human suffering were well known to us all. 
The record of the last anti-Labor government, the McMahon Government, in the field of unemployment is interesting. In 1970 when that Government started its 3-year term the number of people unemployed was 50,000. In 1972, before it was defeated, more than 100,000 people were unemployed. There was a 100 per cent increase in the number of unemployed during its period of office. 
No. One thing that this Government is firmly pledged against is unemployment and it has been ever since it has been in government, as were previous Labor Governments. There was an historic White Paper in 1945 which pledged the Australian Government of that time, a Labor Government, to full employment. That has been the policy of the Australian Labor Party ever since. True, there will be some unemployment because of the restraints that are put forward in controlling inflation; but it is as sure as it is that night will follow day that the number of unemployed in this country will not reach the figures that were reached during the previous governments. The only strategy which previous Liberal-Country Party governments had to handling inflation was to create unemployment. This government is firmly committed to a policy of full employment, and that is what we will have. 
When this Government came to office it was fully aware of inflation. If the previous government had remained in office inflation, instead of running at  3lA  per cent as it is today, probably would be running at 2 1 per cent or 22 per cent as it did when a government of similar complexion was in office in 1951. I do not ask honourable senators to accept that as my private opinion. That opinion is supported by  Dr Porter,  a member of the International Monetary Fund. I refer to a report in the 'Financial Review' of 12 November 1973. When he was in Australia  Dr Porter  said that if the previous government had remained in power inflation in this country, due to the economic strategy that the previous government was employing, would be running twice as high as it is today. That is the unsolicited opinion of  Dr Porter,  a member of the International Monetary Fund, not the opinion of a Labor senator. 
This Government is as responsible in the field of inflation as any other government would be. It receives the same advice from the Treasury as would any other government. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said in December 1972, when the Australian Labor Party became the Governmentand he was supported by the Treasurerthat we were fully aware of the dangers of inflation. We continually had it under review and would take measures to correct it. I believe that the Government is acting properly and correctly on the advice that it is receiving. I am sure that the Government will be able to correct the situation. 
I recall during the last election campaign the Leader of the senators opposite saying that if his Party was returned as the government he would cure inflation. I remember saying at the time that if he had the miracle cure for inflation he should not be aspiring to be the Prime Minister of Australia; he could be the head of the United Nations because all the countries that are suffering from inflation today would lay the red carpet down for him and place him at the head of affairs if he would produce his miracle cure. Of course, he laid the pattern of stampeding throughout the country saying that drastic measures had to be taken for inflation. However, the people indicated what they wanted and as I said earlier the present Government is acting responsibly and correctly in imposing restraints. They will not last for ever but as soon as the economy - 
-Well, I do not know whether we will last for ever. We have faced elections twice in the last 2 years and we are back here.  Senator Withers'  Party is still in Opposition and has depleted ranks.  His  Party is in a much wounded position. It has lost its rear-guard, its ally, and also has lost an important post in the Senate. Let us be sensible: Any government, irrespective of its political persuasion, will act responsibly in an endeavour to halt inflation. This Government is no less responsible than any other. 
I have heard honourable senators opposite saying that it is the inherent right and the traditional right of every Australian to be able to own a home of his own and to live in it. They say that the Labor Government, which they say is supposed to represent the working class, has made it nearly impossible for persons to own a home of their own, due to high interest rates. Let us examine some of the statistics to see whether their claims are reliable. I refer to the calendar year 1973 when interest rates of building societies and banks were running high. In that year 185,000 private dwellings were permitted to be built by local authorities in Australia. In 1972 the number of dwellings permitted to be built was 35,000 less or 23 per cent less. In 1971, when we had these attractive interest rates that the Opposition will tell us about, the number of private dwellings built was considerably less. 
But of course the real  story  is that the maximum number of dwellings or houses that can be constructed each year is between 150,000 and 180,000. Because the demand for housing is so great there has to be some dampening down and some restraint, and high interest rates have no effect at all on the number of dwellings constructed. Yet at every opportunity, in order to put fear into the electorate honourable senators opposite make hysterical claims that the Labor Government, with its high interest rates, is destroying the incentive for people to build homes. I have given statistics to show that 185,000 dwellings were constructed last year as against 150,000 in 1972, which was the last year when the Liberal-Country Parties were in office, and there were considerably fewer in 1 97 1 . 
I believe that I have dealt with the 3 questions that seemed to receive the most attention from honourable senators opposite, namely, inflation, housing and unemployment. But before I conclude I should like to refer to the conduct of the last Federal election campaign in Queensland. I have heard it stated in this chamber that the Senate is no place for shrinking violets, and I know through a long association with the political and industrial movements, both inside and outside this Parliament, that politics is a pretty tough game, and that after being in politics for a while one carries some scars of campaigning, whether it is a cauliflower ear or a broken nose. I think that the method of campaigning that was adopted in Queensland in the last Federal election campaign was the most distasteful and disgraceful that I have experienced in 30 years of political activity. I refer to an article in the Bundaberg 'News Mail' which attributes a statement to  Mr Bob  Katter, the Federal member for Kennedy and a former Minister for the Army. The article states that he told a crowd that a vote for Labor would make Australia the prisoner of a stinking communist government which would be its downfall. That is the type of campaign that was conducted not only by  Mr Katter  but also by other members of the Country Party - 
And in the Riverina. This campaign in Queensland was headed, unfortunately, by the Premier of Queensland. I would prefer to regard the Premier of Queensland as the symbol of political life in that State, but his over-enthusiasm in his campaign activities in the last Federal election left a lot to be desired. He went throughout the State making statements about the Federal Labor Government which were untrue. Instead of being referred to as the flying peanut', I am sorry to have to say that a more correct title for him would be a political thug because they were the tactics - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Order!  Senator McAuliffe,  you will not reflect on the Premier of a State. Please moderate your language. 
I will withdraw my reference to the Premier of Queensland being a political thug. But can I replace it by saying that some of the activities of the Country Party in Queensland in the last Federal election campaign could be regarded as tactics that one would expect to be adopted by a political thug. Certain claims and accusations were made that the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  and the Federal Labor Government were opposed to Queensland and were giving Queensland a raw deal. 
-I will come to that. I do not blame any political machine for having a good public relations staff which is able to gain any political advantage by shrewd and astute publicity. But on one occasion  Mr Jack  Egerton, the  President  of the Australian Labor Party in Queensland, the Senior Vice-President of the Australian Labor Party in the Federal sphere and the  President  of the Queensland Trades and Labor Council, issued a Press statement in Queensland. It was never published in any newspaper, but it was replied to by the Premier of Queensland. These are the sorts of tactics that are being adopted. 
I should like to seek the indulgence of the Senate this evening to have certain figures recorded in the official Hansard record so that anybody who thumbs through the pages of Hansard will be able to see the exact position. I hope that the figures that I propose to record in Hansard will be widely read because they refute the claims that have been made in Queensland by the opponents of this Government. These people have said that Queensland is not getting a fair go and that all the benefits and advantages are being given to the standard States of Victoria and New South Wales. Let us examine the true position. 
The total payments to the Queensland Government in 1973-74 for all purposes and including the State Loan Council program, are estimated at about $739m. This represents more than $382 per head of population compared with average payments to all States of about $345 per head of population. In the primary and secondary education field, payments to Queensland for all primary and secondary schools increased from $llm in 1972-73 to $27m in 1973-74, which is an increase of 145 per cent. In the field of tertiary education, payments to Queensland increased from $20m in 1972-73 to $53m in 1973-74, which is an increase of 165 per cent compared with an increase of 150 per cent for all other States. Capital assistance to Queensland in the field of technical education has risen from $1.9m in 1972-73 to $4m in 1973-74, which is an increase of more than 1 10 per cent. Again we see Queensland in a preferred position compared with the other States in regard to pre-school and child care facilities. An estimated amount of $8.2m is being allocated in 1973-74 as payments to the States for pre-school and child care facilities, of which $ 1.3 m is for Queensland. This year there is to be an increase of $2.3m, or nearly 30 per cent, on the payments that were made in 1972-73 for contributions to Aboriginal advancement. 
My colleague  Senator McLaren  asked: 'What about flood relief and restoration assistance?' The Australian Government is providing financial assistance to the Queensland Government for a wide range of flood relief and restoration measures which the State Government has implemented with the agreement of the Australian Government. The financial assistance expected to be provided in 1973-74 is about $34m. The eventual total cost of Australian Government assistance is expected to exceed $82m. I could go on and give statistics and figures relating to the assistance that is being given for housing, cities, urban and regional development, road works, developmental projects, the new shipyard at Maryborough, northern development, beef roads and water conservation. So the story goes on in the Bowen basin and the Burdekin River basin areas, in sugar and in fertilisers. There it is in black and white. It is recorded in the official journals of the Australian Government. That is the sort of assistance that this Government has been giving to Queensland yet it has received no recognition. The thing that shames me and what I am concerned about is that a political party should employ the strategy of travelling the length and breadth of the country telling lies about the assistance given by a government. I object very strongly to the type of smear campaign engaged in by  Mr Bob  Katter and, I believe, by other Country Party members in Queensland supported by the League of Rights. I am very concerned also about the publicity afforded to the various political parties. There is discrimination. As I said earlier, the  President  of the Australian Labor Party in Queensland and the  President  of the Trades and Labour Council issued a Press statement in Queensland which was never published but which was replied to by the Premier of Queensland. 

 Mr Deputy President, I know that my time is up. I thank you for your tolerance. I conclude by commending to the Senate the motion which is before us for our consideration, and by assuring all honourable senators that we on this side of the chamber are aware of the tremendous responsibilities that lie ahead and are prepared to play our part in bearing them. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture. Did the Minister give an undertaking during the election campaign that the Government would assist in facilitating the extraction of the rock phosphate deposits in Queensland? Has the Government entered into any arrangement with Broken Hill South Ltd in this regard? 
Will the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation inform the Senate whether disabled ex-servicemen and war widows currently entitled to free medical treatment from the Repatriation Department will be required to pay the tax levy designed to finance the proposed national health scheme? 
As honourable senators are aware this measure has been before the House before. I think it was before the House as early as May 1 973. This measure has been fully debated and canvassed. One would have thought that under normal circumstances it would have been quickly put to a vote in this chamber and that the Parliament would have been allowed to proceed to a  joint sitting so that the  Government can get on with its legislative program. But, as  Senator Baume  pointed out to the chamber in his maiden speech, there are 15 new members of this chamber. He quite properly claimed that the 1 5 new senators are entitled to debate this measure. It is for that reason that we on the Government side are engaging in the debate. We will endeavour to place before the new senators five or six good reasons why this measure is desirable and why it should receive the support of the Senate. 
Before I debate the Bill I would be remiss if I did not mention the unwarranted attack on the Public Service of Western Australia which was made this afternoon by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers).  I believe that not only was the attack unwarranted; it was also distasteful, deplorable and extraordinary to say the least.  Senator Withers  not only reflected on the integrity of the poll clerks but he also reflected on the returning officers and the Australian Electoral Officer for Western Australia. He made his attack on these officers after they had been engaged in an election, the like of which had never before been seen in this country because the double dissolution of the Parliament culminated in an election for the House of Representatives and an election for the Senate as well as the referendum questions which were put to the people. All honourable senators here know that all those electoral officers were overworked. Some of them collapsed. Therefore, I believe, as do all honourable senators on this side of the chamber, that the attack was unnecessary. We dissociate ourselves from it. We have the highest respect for the poll clerks, the returning officers and all those associated with electoral control in this country. We believe they are people of integrity and impartiality, and that elections conducted by them are in good hands. 
The Government proposes this Bill because we feel it is a step forward in the long and difficult journey of parliamentary democracy. In such a case I believe that we must return to first principles and attempt to understand the foundations of our system. The essence of democracy, as I have always known it, is that the will of the people must prevail, that government must rest on the consent of the governed and that no voter must be favoured or discriminated against in the exercise of his vote. I believe that democracy must rest on the principle of majority rule. I believe that that principle presupposes that as far as practicable each vote cast to elect members to any representative assembly, whether it be national, State or municipal, must be equal in value to the vote of any other citizen. I know it has been said that there is nothing sacred about the principle of majority rule, that it is a principle of order rather than exact justice. But I also know that there is no other principle which on the one hand provides an alternative to autocratic rule and, on the other hand, anarchy. It is clear that if this principle is to prevail, the principle of one vote one value must also prevail. That is the underlying factor and the moral principle behind this legislation. I was pleased to hear it referred to in this manner by the new senator from South Australia,  Senator Steele  Hall. Both of these principles are inseparable principles and in practice merely represent different ways of saying the same thing. 
We believe that only very special exceptions can be made to this basic principle and that they must be recognised as exceptions, not taken for granted as the general rule. That is why we on this side of the chamber believe that the Senate must support this measure. It upholds the principle of electoral equality- the principle of one vote one value. I remind honourable senators opposite that this used to be the situation prior to 1965. It was the situation that existed from the first day of Federation until 1965 when the then Liberal-Country Party Coalition Government brought about, under the influence of and pressure by the then Minister for the Interior, the present Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  in the other place, the first alteration since Federation to section 19 of the Electoral Act. That alteration was the very alteration which destroyed the principle of one vote one value. That high principle in electoral matters was abandoned from that day. Despite what was said here this afternoon by  Senator DrakeBrockman  about the intentions of the Country Party in 1 965 when it brought in its amendments to the Electoral Act, and despite the fact that the then Minister for the Interior,  Mr Anthony,  who was the Minister in charge of the Bill, was very reticent in his second reading speech in the Parliament on 24 May 1 965 and dismissed the bill as being of no real significance, let us have no doubt about the intentions of the Country Party. Fortunately for members of the Australian Labor Party, we did not have to rely on intuition or on guesswork as to the real intention of the Leader of the Australian Country Party on that occasion because he was most forthright at a Country Party dinner at Murwillumbah when he made the following statements which appear in the Murwillumbah 'Daily News', that great organ of public opinion, of 15 June 1964. I know the newspaper because I do not live very far from where it is published. I do not think that the Leader of the Australian Country Party in the other place, or any of his supporters on the Opposition benches in this place, will question the accuracy of what I am about to say because at the time referred to this newspaper was owned by his family. This is the report of what he said in his speech: 
The Minister for the Interior,  Mr J.  D. Anthony, told a Country Party dinner at Murwillumbah, that in carrying out the proposed redistribution of Federal seats, he would make sure that fewer people were required to elect representatives in country areas than in the cities. He said, 'Australia's electoral system was the finest in the world but lacked territorial representation. Representation was now based on population, not area, with the result that power in Parliament was confined to the heavily populated areas'. 

 Mr Anthony said the task of electoral reform was probably one of his worst jobs as Minister for the Interior and one on which his political future hinged. 
I think you will agree,  Mr Deputy President,  that what I have said is a statement of such engaging frankness that comment from me would be superfluous. But let us examine the philosophy behind  Mr Anthony's  statement which must be taken as the philosophy of the Country Party at that time. He complains that representation is based on population, not area. In other words, he complains that this Parliament is elected by people, not acres. At the time he made that statement at the Country Party dinner at Muwillumbah the Liberal Party of Australia was a member of the coalition government. From his reference to territorial representation one can only come to the conclusion that he feels there are too many Liberals in the coalition. If they are elected on the basis of the population in the city areas and are not elected on the basis of acres in country areas one can only draw the conclusion that he is objecting to the number of Liberal members in the coalition. Yet we have heard  Senator Withers,  a Liberal, supported by other Liberals on the Opposition front bench, saying that the Opposition will reject this proposal, one which they know is in keeping with their own political philosophy on electoral reform. One never ceases to wonder what pressure there is on the Liberal Party or what the Country Party has over the Liberal Party so that it is not game to stand on its own feet and give expression to its own feelings in this place. 
We on this side all know, and I believe all on the other side know, that territorial representation is the direct opposite of one vote one value, the principle of this Bill we are introducing. We are introducing it because we believe in the principle of one vote one value and we believe that if it is accepted by this chamber and becomes law it will get rid of the obnoxious legislation that is now weighted in favour of the Country Party allowing voting on the basis of acres and not people. As I said at the outset, for the benefit of new senators in this chamber we will place before them four or five reasons why the Government is proceeding with these proposals. Reference was made earlier by a senator to a report of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review which gave great attention to these matters. The Joint Committee on Constitutional Review was formed on 24 May 1956 and was composed of some of the most distinguished members of both Houses of Parliament. It made an in-depth study of electoral and other constitutional matters affecting the Commonwealth. Its considerations extended over a period of 3 years and it finally brought in its report on 1 October 1958. 
Before I proceed to tell honourable senators of some of its findings, I think it would be opportune to acquaint the new senators of the people who comprised this committee. Its members included  Sir Neil  O'sullivan, who was the Attorney-General in this Parliament before he retired;  Senator Wright,  who is still with us but not with us on this vote;  Senator McKenna; Senator Kennelly; Mr Drummond,  the then member for New England and a distinguished member of the Parliament- 
Yes, a Country Party member. The Committee also included  Mr Hamilton,  the then member for Canning and a distinguished member of the Parliament and a Country Party man also;  Mr Downer,  a former Minister and a former Australian High Commissioner;  Mr Joske,  who later became  Mr Justice  Joske;  Mr Whitiam,  now Prime Minister of Australia;  Mr Ward; Mr Pollard; Mr Calwell.  There were 2 Country Party members, 4 Liberals, all of whom were lawyers, 6 Labor men, of whom two were lawyers, and four were former 
Ministers of the Crown. This Committee agreed unanimously- and all of its members, including  Senator Wright,  were signatories to its conclusions- to support the principle of one vote one value. 
The Committee came to this conclusion after examining 7 previous redistributions in the history of the Federal Parliament. But the important thing is that not only did it support the principle of one vote one value but it also supported the reduction of the quota from one-fifth to onetenth. So strongly did the Committee feel about the matter that its members did not suggest that there should be a mere alteration to the Commonwealth Electoral Act. They felt so strongly about the matter that they considered these principles should be enshrined in the Constitution of this country. So what the Labor Party and the Labor Government is proposing today is what was contained in a report prepared by an allparty committee- the Country Party, Liberal Party and Labor Party- which made unanimous decisions in 1958. If the new senators want some more opinions on these proposals that are before us they may be interested to note some very revealing cases on the same subject heard in the high courts of some other countries. I heard, and I feel I heard him correctly,  Senator DrakeBrockman  say that these electoral reforms are not sought in other countries. I believe that they are because in the Supreme Court of the United States of America in the case of Gray v. Sanders in March 1963, the majority opinion said: 
The idea that every voter is equal to every other voter in his State, when he casts his ballot in favour of one of several competing candidates, underlies many of our decisions. 
It continued:  and once the class of voters is chosen and their qualifications specified, we see no constitutional way by which equality of voting may be evaded. 
In the High Court of Ireland, the judgment of  Mr Justice  Budd in the case of O 'Donovan v. the Attorney-General in February 1961 stated: 
A democratic State is one where government by the people prevails. In modern usage of the words I believe it correct to say a 'democratic State' denotes one in which all citizens have equal political rights. The equality is not maintained if the vote of a person in one part of the country has a greater effect in securing parliamentary representation than the vote of a person in another part of the country. 
Again in the United States Supreme Court in June 1964 in the case of Reynolds v. Sims, the Chief Justice in delivering the opinion of the Court said: 
Wesberry clearly established that the fundamental principle of representative government in this country is one of equal representation for equal numbers of people without regard to race, sex, economic status, or place or residence within a State. Legislators represent people not trees or acres. 
So there it is. lt is not only a suggestion that has been advanced by the Australian Labor Party in government but also is the thinking, and the intelligent thinking, of the members who comprise the joint Committee on Constitutional Review. It also is the basis of the 3 judicial opinions of the eminent judges of the highest courts of the United States and Ireland. Of course we know that they all can be pious conclusions but we on this side of the chamber are nevertheless not deterred. We know that what we are advancing is right in principle and is morally correct. That is why we are bringing the measures forward. With the possible exception of Tasmania, which has 5 Federal electorates from which 7 State members are elected under the Hare-Clark system, it can be correctly said that all States have been notorious for their gerrymanders.  Senator Steele  Hall took the lid off and told us what used to happen in South Australia when a Liberal-Country Party Government was in office. 
For the benefit of the uninitiated who do not know what happens in Queensland under a Liberal-Country Party regime, I will very quickly give some statistics of the last election held in that State in 1972. The Australian Labor Party polled 430,476 votes or received 48 per cent of the votes for 33 seats. The Liberal Party polled 2 10,608 votes or 22.2 per cent of the votes for 2 1 seats. The Australian Country Party polled 181,288 votes or 20 per cent of the votes for 26 seats. The combination of the Liberal Party and Country Party coalition votes represented 42.2 per cent of the vote for 47 seats. The Australian Labor Party received 48 per cent of the vote for 33 seats. I think those figures are worth repeating. The coalition Government in Queensland received 42.2 per cent of the votes for 47 seats and the Australian Labor Party received 48 per cent of the votes for 33 seats. In other words, it took 13,000 electors to elect an Australian Labor Party member and 6,500 electors to elect a Country Party member. 

 Mr President, I note that there are other speakers who want to make a contribution in this debate and I have had an opportunity previously to make a contribution. I believe that the measures that are being brought forward by the Government are sound and that they are worthy of the support of all honourable senators. They are not just imaginative measures introduced by the Australian Labor Party; they are measures that have been advocated by the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review and are supported by judicial opinion throughout other lands. 
In conclusion I appeal to honourable senators, particularly the new senators who sought the opportunity to have this debate on electoral matters, to do the right thing. I appeal to them to weigh up the matters carefully in their minds and to think them over. If they do that, I know that as common sense and intelligent senators they will come down on the side of the Government in these measures. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is the Minister aware that in the past charter flights have been operated by Qantas Airways Ltd and other airlines between Australia and several eastern European countries? Will the Minister tell the Senate whether there are any proposals for the introduction of direct scheduled air services between Australia and countries in that region? 
-Will the Minister for  the Media tell the Senate the measures that are being undertaken to expand educational broadcasting for schools? Has the Government any plan to co-ordinate, at a national level, the initiatives that have been reported from time to time in the Press? I refer to the late night transmissions of video taped material for recording in South Australian schools which were approved by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board last year. 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Milliner)-  Does the honourable senator claim to have been misrepresented? 
It could appear that way in Hansard. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Do you claim that? 
Yes. During  Senator Carrick's  address, when he was developing his argument on parliamentary salaries he said, I believe, that he was going to quote from what had been said by members of the Whitlam Government. In anticipation that he would do what he has done on so many occasions here, that is, quote from newspaper reports of happenings in Caucus, I interjected and said: 'A minority report'. I thought that he was going to quote from what had been said by  Mr Whitlam, Dr Cairns, Mr Hayden  and one or two other Ministers. But he did not do so. He quoted from the statement that was put down in the other place by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  2 evenings ago. I in no way want to appear in Hansard as having reflected on the Treasurer's statement. I was too quick out of the blocks in anticipating  Senator Carrick.  I thank the Senate for allowing me to make this personal explanation. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Both of you are very good rugby league supporters. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence and follows the question asked by  Senator Brown  relating to school cadet training. Does the Minister have anything further to add to this matter? 
I am prompted to take part in this debate. I was hoping that it would come to a conclusion much earlier. But I shall endeavour to put an end to the humbug to which we have had to listen this morning. Last evening- the Hansard record clearly shows this- Opposition senators were prepared to have debate on this question practically immediately. They wanted it brought on at the first available opportunity. I am wondering whether the demonstration regarding consideration in which  Senator Carrick  has hysterically indulged, results from the fact that he and his Liberal senators do not know their position in this matter. They had a Party meeting this morning. A secret ballot was taken and they do not even know the result of it because the man who has the ballot papers is missing and their leader is not in the precincts of Parliament House. This is just a subterfuge and humbug to stall so that someone from another place can come here and tell them the result of the secret ballots concerning the three questions that honourable senators opposite had to answer this morning. This is why the Opposition is using delaying tactics. 
Opposition members are in an area of indecision. They are leaderless. They do not know where they are going and what their position is on this matter. I am speaking of them collectively. Individually, they know what they want to do. But collectively they do not know what their Party decision is and they will not know until the result of the ballot is given to them. 1 feel that the change of face ofthe Opposition senators, from wanting to discuss this matter practically immediately last night to using delaying tactics and wanting to have it postponed until next Tuesday, should be recorded in Hansard. I feel this has occurred because they cannot get the decision of their Party which met this morning and they do not know what their stance in this matter should be. 

 - Senator Bishop, the Postmaster-General, in his second reading speech on the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill 1974, told the Senate quite clearly and in an informative way the reasons why the Bill was before the Senate. At this stage I want to congratulate the Minister on his second reading speech. If Opposition senators had taken time to read what the Minister said, there would not have been so much of the hogwash we have had already in this debate. The Minister went to great pains to explain, as I said, in a most informative manner, the reasons for and the purposes of the Bill. They are perfectly clear. The purpose of the Bill is to raise an extra $146m in the current year to meet increasing costs and to meet the demand for services in the future. I believe that these Bills- the Post and Telegraph 
Rates Bill and the Post and Telegraph Billshould be passed and that they should receive the enthusiastic support of the Senate. 
The Postmaster-General's Department is the nation's largest business. It employs 120,000 people- more than half the total Commonwealth Public Service. To give honourable senators some idea of the magnitude of this business I mention that it distributes 5,000 letters and completes 6,000 telephone calls every minute of every day. In anyone's language, that represents a very big business undertaking. I do not have to remind honourable senators that the principle that applies in any business is that those who require a service or use a service must be prepared to pay for it. For example, the chap who purchases and runs a luxury limousine knows that he has to pay for the extra petrol it uses. The same principle applies to the chap who enjoys the pleasure of travelling long distances in a motor car. He knows that he has to foot the bill for the extra petrol that the car uses. The situation is no different with a government business. The simple truth- and Opposition senators have to face up to it- is that the people who use the service must pay for it. If they do not pay for a government service because they are not required to pay for it or they pay a tariff which is inadequate, the taxpayer must pay for that service. The service cannot be provided in any other way. A government business is no different from any other business. The people who use the service must pay for it. If the people who use a government service are not required to pay for it there is only one other place from which payment can come, and that is from the taxpayer. In other words, if the user of the service has not been charged an adequate charge the taxpayer subsidises the user of the service. 
It is an inescapable fact that, for the past 23 years, because postal charges have been deliberately depressed the taxpayer has been called upon to subsidise the users of the services provided by the Post Office. There can be no denying that fact. Having established that this has been the policy of the anti-Labor governments for 23 years, it might be pertinent at this stage to look at who are the big users of these services. The dominant user of postal services is big business- not the working man, the pensioner or the man in the street, each of whom would not send more than 20 letters in a year. These are not the people whom the anti-Labor governments protected by way of their subsidised method of providing services, because they are the people who are least affected in any movement of tariffs one way or another. The Opposition, when in government, continued a policy under which the worker and the pensioner as taxpayers were called upon to subsidise big business. I have heard in this chamber- no doubt we will hear it again- the phoney claim that has been made by Opposition senators that the reason why they have opposed increases in tariffs for postal services is that they have been protecting the worker. They claim that the main reason why they oppose the tariff increase from 7c to 9c contained in this legislation is that the increase will hit the worker. 
We heard their passionate plea, on the last occasion on which legislation to increase charges was before us, that we were penalising the poor pensioner who sends a Christmas card to his or her relatives at Christmas time. What rot that is. I have pointed out on previous occasions, and I do so again today, that big business is the dominant user of the services that are provided by the Postmaster-General's Department. Having established this, let us examine just what charges big business really pays. We have heard from big business the cry that an increase from 7c to 9c will be inflationary and will put them out of business. But let us have a real look at the position. Postal and telephone charges are a permissible taxation deduction in any business. This is known to every honourable senator, just as every one of them knows that companies pay taxation at the rate of 47Vi per cent. Even  Senator Webster  could work out by way of a simple arithmetical exercise that instead of big business paying 9c for a postage stamp it will pay 5c. Because big business pays company tax at the rate of 47 per cent and this cost is a taxation deduction, the cost of this service is reduced from 9c to 5c. 
Despite the fact that big business will pay only 5c for a stamp, the pensioner, the worker or the ordinary man in the street, who also pays tax, will be called upon to pay the full 9c. In other words, he is subsidising big business. This is the situation because the previous Government never had the courage to make the people who are the dominant users of the service pay for the service. One can only gain the impression that in some way a hidden subsidy was paid to big business, which supports the Opposition parties at election time. Again, big business is allowed a tax deduction for telephone charges. The situation that I outlined in regard to postal charges must apply also to telephone charges for which big business again pays only half rates. That in itself is a shameful enough situation. But there is a more unfortunate situation that our friends on the Opposition benches allowed to continue for 23 years. In calling upon the taxpayer to subsidise big business in this way, money that could have been used for child care centres, education or other welfare programs was no longer available. That is a more unfortunate situation than the scandalous policy of hidden subsidies being given to big business. 

 Senator Durack made great play about inflation. He quoted at length what leaders on this side of the chamber and leaden of the Labor Party in the other place had said. What I say to  Senator Durack  is that we are more interested in what is being said in this chamber today and what effect the result of our deliberations will have on the future for Australia. The electorate is more interested in the measures contained in this Bill. It is not interested in the honourable senator quoting leaders out of context or saying what they did 20 or 30 years ago. We know that that is a very good tactic of the trained lawyer, but I thought that  Senator Durack  would have done more justice to his case if he had kept to what is in the Bill and tried to debate it fairly and squarely. It is true, as  Senator Durack  pointed out, that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said that the increased tariffs were intended to meet increasing costs and future demand for services and were not introduced as an anti-inflationary measure. I believe that the Postmaster-General made quite clear in his second reading speech that the purpose was what  Senator Durack  has quoted the Treasurer as having said. However, if the increases can at the same time assist in arresting inflation, that is all the better. 
I will show  Senator Durack  that his claim that these increases are inflationary is ridiculous. At present there are more than 100,000 deferred applications for telephones. One may well ask: Why so many? The answer is: Under-pricing for the service. It has long been accepted in business as an historical fact that a heavy demand results from an under-pricing for a service. If the price for the service was increased the number of applicants would be reduced; many applicants would feel that connection of the telephone was not completely necessary- perhaps desirable but not necessary. The only applicants remaining would be those who lodged applications as a result of need. Any applicant that has need as his basis will not reconsider when there is a movement one way or the other in the tariff charges. I repeat that business has long accepted that under-pricing creates demand. 
Honourable senators are aware that we are in a more favoured position than our colleagues in the other place in that when the various Appropriation Bills come before Parliament, the Senate Estimates Committees examine the Estimates very carefully. As a result of the work of these Estimates Committees we have learnt, when considering the appropriation for the PostmasterGeneral's Department, that its reference in an Appropriation Bill is the biggest single line allocation in the budget. I believe that present tariffs have encouraged the use of half the Public Service 120,000 employees -and have encouraged heavy budget expenditure. The under-pricing of the services has created a demand for resources out of all proportion to need. Under-pricing creates a demand which in turn makes for excessive use of resources, excessive use of people and excessive use of money. That is inflationary. Under-pricing is more inflationary than charging the correct price for the services. 
The history of postal tariffs is riddled with the stories of subsidies that produce financial distortions. People have been unable to understand and appreciate the real value of services supplied. We must adjust this situation and move it over to an area where the people using the services must pay for the services. The theme throughout this debate on postal tariffs should be that the users must pay. In the report of the Commission of Inquiry into the Australian Post Office, the Commissioners spoke of financial distortions and subsidies. I do not like reading at length to the Senate but I think this debate is so important that the Commissioners' opinions should be recorded in Hansard and heard by honourable senators opposite so that they in their deliberations on this Bill will know what consequences are entailed. At page 174 of the report when referring to financial distortions, the Commissioners say: 
Capital is required to enable the APO to provide its services to the community. At 30 June 1973 funds provided by the Treasury stood at $3,043m; during the 1972-73 year interest paid by the APO to Treasury was $158m. If this interest payment by the APO to Treasury were waived, the cost of APO services would decrease and tariff could be reduced with benefit to users of the services. Government revenue would fall by the amount of interest foregone and taxes would then have to be raised to finance the Government's expenditure budget. If taxes were not raised, the Government's expenditure would have to be reduced in other directions. The taxpayers and the users of APO services represent two separate and distinct groups; some taxpayers may pay relatively little tax but may be heavy users of APO services; others may pay relatively higher taxes but make little use of the services. There is no correlation between the two groups and problems of equity arise if costs are moved from one group to the other. 
In the economic sense capital can never be considered a free' resource; it is always in short supply relative to total demand and capital directed to one investment area means capital investment foregone elsewhere. The cost of foregoing alternative investments, the so-called 'opportunity cost , is a cost that has to be borne by taxpayers or by other groups in the community. 
Apart altogether from the question of the equitable treatment of different groups, distortions arise if the prices of goods or services do not reflect their economic cost. Failure to include a charge for capital in the costs of APO services would cheapen these services and increase their usage, giving rise to still further demands for capital. 
If inequities and distortions such as have been referred to above, are to be minimised, services such as are provided by the APO should be fairly costed and priced; included in the costs should be a charge (interest) for the capital employed. The Commission therefore rejects the suggestion that capital for APO services should be interest-free or at some nominal rate of interest. Nor does it accept that there is any element of 'double taxation' involved in charging interest on capital provided by Government. 
So much for that. Those of us who have made a study of the Post Office know that it is different from most businesses in the community. It has a growth rate of only 3 per cent. That is peculiar not only to Australia. I understand that the Post Office industry throughout the world has a growth rate of only 3 per cent. It is coincidental I do not know the reason why, and this afternoon I offer this as a point of interest only- that the growth rate of the Post Office in Australia at 3 per cent is exactly the same as the growth rate of Australia's population. The point I am making in emphasising the small growth rate of the Post Office is this: People, including honourable senators opposite, will say, that the Post Office should be run as a business, that we should go out and look for new business to offset the increased costs that are involved. But a business with a growth rate as low as 3 per cent cannot engage professional salesmen and say to them: 'Go out and get more business'. That just does not work. The business is not there. 
That returns us to the only thing that we, as a government or Parliament, can do if these increased costs have to be absorbed and if the Post Office has to be run on business methods and pay its way, and that is to make the users pay for the service. There can be no alternative to that now. I venture to say that if we do not do that quickly the results can be disastrous. Let us look at the earnings of the postal services. They have been tabulated on page 168 of the report of the Commission of Inquiry into the Australian Post Office. For the year 1973-74 the estimated earnings for the postal services are $2 50m. But for the same year the estimated expenses are $303m. This is a loss of $53m. Since this report was brought down the position has deteriorated. That is frightening enough, but let us see what is envisaged for 1976-77. It is expected that earnings from postal services in that year will be $288m, but the estimated expenditure is $442m, which is a loss of $ 1 54m. 
As I have said, the present situation is frightening enough, but where are we heading for in the years 1975-76 and 1976-77? The figures I have given are from the table on postal services. The position in relation to the profit and loss accounts for telecommunications is no better. Up to the present telecommunications have been able to show a profit while the postal services have run at a loss. One contributing factor why telecommunications have been able to perform better than the Post Office is that the Post Office is a labour intensive operation. The telecommunications section is a capital intensive operation. But the figures I am about to quote to honourable senators show that even the telecommunications section of the Post Office will run into the red in the very near future. On page 170 of the report the table on the telecommunications profit and loss accounts is set out. This shows that the estimated earnings from telecommunications for the year 1973-74 is $8 17m. But the estimated expenditure for the same year is $787m. This shows a profit of $30m. For the year 1976-77 the estimated earnings are $ 1,077m while the estimated expenditure is $ 1,164m, a loss of $87m. Yet honourable senators opposite ask: Why do we want tariff increases?' Are those figures not illuminating enough? Surely they must stir the red blood in the honourable senators' bodies and make them look at the situation sensibly. This is a frightening position which confronts us unless something is done about it. The comments of the commissioners will be important in this regard. They stated: 
The  APO's  current estimate for the 1973-74 year is a loss of $42m for postal services compared with a loss of $20.9m in 1972-73. The 1973-74 loss has been increased by $1 lm to $53m by the additional superannuation charges. 
Not a mention was made of those charges by  Senator Durack  in his speech. The report continues: 
Table 7.3 shows that with the stated assumptions, postal losses can be expected to increase to about $154m in 1 976-77 unless tariffs are increased. 
That last phase is underlined. In referring to the frightening future of the telecommunications section of the Australian Post Office the report states: 
Table 7.4 shows that the  APO's  estimate for the current 1973-74 year of a profit of $50m from telecommunications services is reduced by $20m to a profit of $30m by the inclusion of the high superannuation charges. The projected figures indicate that by 1976-77 telecommunications services are likely to show a loss of about $87m unless tariffs are increased. 
Again that phrase is underlined. Yet honourable senators opposite smugly say: 'We do not want any increases. They are not justified. The Government has produced no proof to justify this stand. ' I refer honourable senators to the 2 tables on the postal services profit and loss accounts and the telecommunications profit and loss accounts which very clearly disclose Government policy in relation to tariff increases. We can go back 23 years when the Liberal and Country Parties became the Government. They did not increase postal charges in an election year even though such charges were warranted. The figures show quite clearly that the last increase brought in by the former Government was in the Budget of 1970-71 which was brought down in August before elections were held in 1972. This was a time when postal services were running at a loss of $25. 5m. As a result of those increases which were introduced in a non-election year- because the Government sought political expediency and did not want to become unpopular with the electoratein the following year, 1 97 1-72, some correction was made in the loss which was suffered by the Post Office. Having quoted those figures, I now would like to compliment the Australian Post Office, or the Postmaster-General's Department, on introducing an innovation in the schedule of postal charges. I refer to the introduction of the classification of 'standard postal article'. So that I make no error in the description of the article and am correctly reported I shall read what the schedule says: 
A standard postal article will be any item of mail between the dimensions of 90 millimetres by 140 millimetres and 120 millimetres by 235 millimetres, having an oblong shape with a ratio of width to length of 1 to not less than 1.4 and with a maximum thickness of 5 millimetres. 
In the Imperial measurement the thickness would be a quarter of an inch. On such articles there will be no weight limit. All standard postal articles over 20 grams in weight will bear postage of 9c instead of 15c as under the present rating system. This represents a reduction of 6c. I know that samples of the envelopes cannot be included in Hansard,  Mr Acting Deputy  President; but for the edification of all honourable senators there are 3 types of envelopes. Told briefly, the story is that one will be able to put twice as much in this envelope and pay 9c postage instead of the present rate of 15c. This point apparently was missed by Opposition senators; or they did not want to give credit where credit is due. 
Apart from the wealth of informative statistics and other matter that is contained in the report of the Commission of Inquiry into the Australian Post Office, the commissioners made some pertinent observations. The Commission said in its report that when the 2 corporations are set up as recommended, and I believe as approved by the Government- there will be an Australian Post 
Office Corporation and a Telecommunications Corporation- they will be expected to be run as business ventures and where the Government refuses to increase tariffs the corporations will report accordingly in their annual reports. The commissioners believe that if the corporations have to provide the services at too cheap a rate the Government will be asked to subsidise the loss. This is how it should be. 
During my address I have pointed out how, for 23 years, the taxpayers have been subsidising the users of these services and the dominant user has been big business. We cannot expect statutory corporations to be established, to be told to straighten out all the things that are wrong in the Postmaster-General's Department and to run their corporations on business lines if they have to provide services that are uneconomical or are not going to be subsidised in cases in which it is government policy to provide services because that may be in the national interest. I believe that the observation of the commissioners in this regard is correct. In no other way can we return sanity to the tariffs which should be charged for postal and telecommunication services. As things are at the moment, the Post Office just cannot win. If the Post Office is run at a loss, we hear Opposition senators" cry 'Why do they not put in charge of the Post Office someone who can run it in a business-like way?' If rates are increased Opposition senators say they are too high, they are inflationary, they are crippling to the community and we cannot have them. Under the present set-up the Post Office cannot win. I hope that the Senate will apply common sense and look at the dangerous situation in which both these arms of the Postmaster-General's Department will find themselves in 1 976-77 if this Parliament does not agree to increased tariffs. 
Only one other thing is left for me to say in this regard. I have claimed that for the past 23 years when the Opposition parties were the government of this country they deliberately depressed tariffs for postal services, seeking to gain electoral popularity and not realising that there would be a time of reckoning. That time of reckoning has arrived. We have been left with the legacy of 23 years of incorrect policy in relation to -the running of the Post Office. I am pleased to say that the Government has been courageous in this matter. It appointed a Royal Commission to inquire into the Post Office and is prepared to accept the recommendations of that Royal Commission. The Government is prepared to grasp the nettle and to adopt a policy that the people who use the services must pay for them. I am happy that the Government has decided to do that. This policy may not be as popular with the electorate as the incorrect policy followed for 23 years by previous governments, but in the long run at least the people will appreciate that this Government has endeavoured to do something about correcting the position. The first step towards correcting it is establishing 2 corporations, one for the Australian Post Office and the other for the telecommunications section, and running them on strict business lines. The theme of the policy should be that those who use the services should pay for them. 
I refer the attention of the Minister for Agriculture to reports that Australia has concluded negotiations with the European Economic Community for compensation following the United Kingdom entry into that body. Will the Minister tell the Senate what benefits have the negotiations brought the Australian farmer? 
The purpose of the Financial Corporations Bill is to provide the basis for the examination, and as necessary, regulation of activities in the non-bank finance sector. The Bill has been introduced to assist the Australian Government to achieve effective management of the economy. This is the main purpose of the Bill, and this is why the Government is seeking the support of the Senate. There is no need for me to argue here the importance of money and credit in the modern economic system. But I think that I should deal with this aspect briefly because we need to trace the history that led to the necessity for this measure to be introduced. History has shown that no single factor can do more to influence the welfare and progress of a community than the management of the volume and flow of money. Senators on this side of the chamber, as well as senators on the other side, know as well as I do that history is full of incidents. 
Brief mention was made of the crisis period of 1931 in which there was conflict between the  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Bank Board and the Government of the day. History is full of incidents where mismanagement of money has contributed to economic disasters. The mismanagement of money can create booms and slumps, mass unemployment, waste of resources, industrial unrest and social misery. These facts are recognised by all responsible governments. They have been recognised and accepted as the main purposes that a monetary and banking system should serve in a modern economy. A royal commission into the monetary and banking systems of Australia in 1937 expressed these purposes in the strongest terms. As a result the Commonwealth Bank was strengthened and given greater powers. 1 think I can recall that in 1945 additional banking legislation was introduced into the national Parliament which subsequently gave the Parliament some control over the private banks. All of these measures were introduced because some legislative control was required over the banking system, whether it was the Commonwealth Bank or the private banks. The action taken in 1945 was a flow on from what had happened in 1931 when the  Chairman  of the then Commonwealth Bank,  Sir Robert  Gibson, was in conflict with the late J. H. Scullin who was the Prime Minister of the day. I do not think that anyone can deny that under this system the banking institutions have made remarkable headway. They have flourished. At the same time it must be to their credit that they have co-operated with the Government in terms of monetary policy. 
Honourable senators on both sides of the chamber know that there has been a transformation of the Australian financial scene, particularly in the last quarter of a century. In the 1940s bank assets stood at about 67 per cent of the total national assets, but between 1953 and 1962 the assets of the banks declined to 58 per cent of the total national assets. We are told that today bank assets are as low as 42 per cent of the total national assets. The lesson to be learnt from that is quite clear: By legislation the Government could make arrangements with the banking system, when it controlled 67 per cent of the total national assets, to apply restraints; but the movement from 67 per cent in 1940 down to as low as 42 per cent in 1974 reflects the fact that other causes are operating in Australia today. 
There has been a proliferation of financial institutions. I can recall that in the 1940's the Chifley Government asked the banks to show some restraint in their lending to the hire purchase companies. This meant that the hire purchase companies, which were involved in the business of lending for consumer goods, felt that their source of money was cut off. They examined their position. The legal advice given to them was that they could go on to the open market and make a call for money. That is what they did. They offered interest rates far in excess of those the banks were able to give on account of the restrictions on them. This was the start of the mushrooming of the finance houses. It occurred because the then Government, acting wisely and prudently at the time, put those restraints on the Commonwealth Bank and the Commonwealth Bank co-operated. It refused to make money available to the finance houses, and they went on to the open market. They were so successful that they mushroomed. They have become so successful that today the banks are the biggest shareholders in all the finance companies. 
I never cease to marvel that, whilst in most countries today a citizen who can prove that he is in a steady position and is of good character can walk into a bank and receive a personal loan, here in Australia if a person goes into a bank he is told that the bank cannot give him the money but that if he goes around the corner to Custom Credit Corporation Ltd or one of the other finance houses in which the banks are the major shareholders he can get the money, at a greatly increased interest rate. The proliferation has not been only in the number of finance houses. Let us examine what has happened in the last 2 or 3 decades. In Australia today there are operating 1,000 finance company groups, 400 insurance companies, 200 permanent building societies, 750 credit unions and somewhere between 50 and 80 corporations in the merchant banking area. Not only has there been this rapid increase in non-bank financial institution but also there is now a need for considerable expertise to understand the complexities of their operations and to assess the implications of their activities from the national view point. 
I do not think anyone can deny that it is a new ball game compared with what it was in the middle of the 1 940s. Of course, it is natural that, with the nation's economic and social development, there should be a parallel development of the financial machinery. We all know that as incomes and wealth grow those who own them demand a greater variety of assets. This, coupled with the ability to acquire consumer goods on credit, ensures a range of borrowers who are ready to satisfy the demand for financial assets. In a period of economic growth there are people looking to increase their portfolios. On the other hand there is also a ready pool of consumers wanting goods on credit. The bringing of borrowers and lenders together for these transactions which are so necessary in the community has provided the opportunity for new and specialised intermediaries. This growth in the number of intermediaries has been a very characteristic event on the Australian scene over the past 2 or 3 decades. 
It must be admitted that the development of the non-bank financial institutions has brought some benefit to the development and economic life of this country. I do not think anyone denies that. No argument with that is contained in the Financial Corporations Bill. However, as I have said, the great growth in the number of intermediaries has raised other significant implications for the economy and responsibilities for the Government. Because of the Government's willingness to shoulder these responsibilities, it has taken action in regard to the non-bank financial institutions. The major legislative action that has been taken by the Government in regard to these institutions has been the introduction of the Financial Corporations Bill that we are debating today. Honourable senators will recall that it was first introduced into the Parliament last December. Now it is before us for the second time. To put it simply and in a nutshell, the Bill will provide for the Government to have direct control and powers over the activities of the nonbank financial institutions- an essential requirement for any government charged with the responsibility of economic management. That seems to me to be the purpose of the Bill. Just as in the 1940s banking legislation was necessary to control the Commonwealth Bank and the private banks, so 30 years later legislation is necessary for the Government to have some control over the non-bank financial institutions because of the volume of money over which they have control. 
I will not weary the Senate by going into the rationale for the introduction of the Financial Corporations Bill in detail. I do not think that I am fully competent to do so. It was dealt with adequately by the Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  in an address he gave to the New South Wales Branch of the Economic Society of Australia and New Zealand on 6 February 1974 entitled 'The Government's policy towards non-bank financial institutions'. In a thorough and wellexplained manner, he outlined to that gathering the rationale behind the Financial Corporations Bill. Honourable senators in this chamber will, I feel, accept that much on the growth of the nonbank financial institutions has been documented in studies and works in the 1950s and the 1960s which presents us with ample information. I was pleased to hear  Senator Cotton  quote at length from some of these works. I know that it is an area in which he is vitally interested, and I know that he will agree with me when I claim that much of the reason and the rationale, if any are required in this debate, can readily be found in the studies and works of the 1950s and 1960s and which, as I said, were outlined by the Treasurer in his address to the New South Wales Branch of the Economic Society of Australia and New Zealand and which I believe are contained also in the Minister's second reading speech. 
It might be pertinent now to examine some of the features of the Bill. The Bill seeks to empower the Government to apply specific controls regarding asset ratios, qualitative and quantitative lending policies and interest rates rather than specify the controls that will be imposed and the method by which they will be imposed. This policy or attitude is adopted because of the diversity of types of institutions and the diversity of individual institutions within a group. The Government believes- and I believe that this has been accepted by the Opposition- that there must be some flexibility in the processes. The second point I put forward is that if controls are applied they should not be applied so as to undermine confidence in an institution or to disrupt its activities. This will require the institutions to make available detailed information of thenstructure and operations. This will be immensely helpful to any government irrespective of its political persuasion because until now little has been known of the operations, construction and constitution of these institutions. The Minister indicated in his second reading speech that before controls are brought in there will be consultations between his Department and the financial institutions involved. Of course, the Bill also provides the objectives to be reached by voluntary co-operation and consultation. These, I believe, are very important factors. The fact is that by voluntary co-operation and consultation with institutions these objectives may be brought about and the Government can see significant advantages in its objectives being achieved in this way. 
During this debate the Government will probably be asked why these measures and controls are necessary since there is already adequate legislation in the States governing the institutions and consumers' interests. It is true that legislation against fraud, misappropriation and so on affords some general protection to the community in this area. But experience suggests that special legislation also is necessary. In Australia it is the States which have in general legislated for the stability of intermediaries and for the protection of consumers, including provisions regarding minimum liquidity requirements, capital borrowing, gearing ratios and the like. The Government sees this State legislation as a necessary requirement of the overall system of surveillance over financial institutions. But in introducing the Financial Corporations Bill it has indicated that it is not its intention that this Bill should exclude or limit the operation of State laws. I expect that in the normal course of events they will operate concurrently. That is what the Government feels about the State laws. 
In conclusion I would like to make brief reference to the effect that the Financial Corporations Bill could have had on foreign ownership and control, if this provision was included in the Bill. As a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control I have an interest in this area. I believe that the Financial Corporations Bill could have given specific legislative effect to another aspect of Government policy on non-bank financial institutions. 
This is in the area of foreign ownership and control. A significant part of the growth of non-bank financial institutions in recent years can be attributed to the entry of foreign institutions. The Government takes the view that Australia is already adequately supplied with non-bank financial institutions and that, generally, there would be little benefit in allowing additional institutions to be established by foreign interests. However, this policy would not be a blanket ban on new foreign owned intermediaries. There could be special circumstances warranting their establishment. Nor would it be intended that established foreign owned institutions would be restricted or dispossessed. Rather they would be expected to co-operate with the authorities and to come under the same control and restraint as Australian owned and controlled intermediaries. 
I hope that in the brief time that I have had at my disposal I have thrown some light on the Government's intentions and have shown that the Government's attitude to financial institutions is a responsible one. Whilst we as well as senators on the other side realise that intermediaries will have some apprehension about surveillance and controls over their activities which did not exist previously, we nevertheless feel that they will agree with us that the measures are necessary just as similar measures were necessary in the banking system in the 1 940s. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Will the Minister tell the Senate what was the outcome of the Australia-United 
Kingdom air services negotiations in Melbourne during April? Did the Minister see the newspaper accounts to the effect that Australia requested British Airways Ltd to reduce services on the Kangaroo Route? If so, can the Minister advise the Senate as to the accuracy of these reports? 
I rise to support the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill which are before the chamber and, naturally, to oppose the amendment which has been moved on behalf of the Opposition by  Senator Cotton.  I note that  Senator Cotton  quoted from the House of Representatives Hansard words attributed to the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  when he said in that place the Opposition supported the Bills provided that when the Bills reached the Senate they would be referred to the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control to enable that Committee to complete its report. I am not denying that that remark was made by the Leader of the Country Party in the other place. But it was never taken on board by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  who was in charge of the Bill. As a consequence, we are justified in opposing the amendment here. 
Before I say anything further I would like to tell the Senate of something that happened at the first meeting of the reconstituted Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control. At that meeting the members of that Committee elected me as their  chairman  and, when I was responding to the honour that they had bestowed upon me, I mentioned the services rendered to the Committee by its former  chairman,  the former Western Australian senator, Hartley Cant. The Committee members unanimously requested that I forward to  Senator Cant  a letter of appreciation of his outstanding services to the Committee, both as a member and then as  chairman,  to convey the best wishes of the members of the Committee to him, and to take the first available opportunity to inform the Senate of the actions of the Committee. I am happy to do that. I inform the Senate that a letter has already been forwarded to him adequately expressing the thanks of the Committee members for his services as  chairman.  I think that that action is supported in this chamber because over the years  Senator Cant  accumulated a knowledge not equalled by any other member of this Parliament, of Australia's resources, both rnining and energy. At another time- possibly when the Committee brings in a report- I will be able to deal at greater length with the services of former  Senator Cant  so that our appreciation may be permanently recorded in Hansard for posterity. 
The Government's new Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill includes a number of major concessions to the objections raised by business people and the Opposition to the original amending Bill. However, the provisions for the expanding role of the AIDC through its affiliates, the National Interest Committee and the National Investment Fund, remain practically unaltered. The new Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and National Investment Fund Bill were introduced in July last in the other place and the ensuing debate was described by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  as being most constructive. That debate was in sharp contrast to the debate that took place when the original Bills were introduced in October 1973. 
On this occasion concessions have been made by both the Government and the Opposition as some of the amendments that have been put forward by each side are an endeavour to clarify the functions and purposes of the AIDC. In view of that objective the Government accepted the amendments proposed by the Opposition. Bearing that in mind, one would have expected the Senate to give a speedy passage to the legislation this afternoon. However, there are to be further delays because  Senator Cotton,  on behalf of the Opposition, has proposed that the Bills be referred to the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control for report back to the Senate by 1 October. The Government is totally opposed to that proposition. Naturally, I am opposing the amendment. While  Senator Cotton  has advanced reasons for his amendment, we on this side feel that no good purpose would be served by referring the measures to a committee for report. 
At this point it might be appropriate to trace briefly the history of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. We all know that it was introduced in 1970 under the GortonMcEwen Government by  Mr McEwen.  The underlying principle was to buy back the farm with money attracted from overseas. Any buying back of the farm was not to be financed by money taken out of the capital market in Australia. At the time the Bill was roundly acclaimed as a practical move to place Australia's resources under Australian ownership. On 17 October 1973 the present Government introduced 2 amending Bills which were passed in the other place and then presented to the Senate. On 29 November 1 973 the Senate, by a majority vote, referred the 2 Bills to the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control for investigation and report back to the Senate not later than 12 March 1974. As  Senator Cotton  has correctly said, submissions were invited from interested persons, firms and organisations through advertisements placed in the national Press. 
In the instance of some major industries and trade associations, personal approaches were made by the secretariat to have those organisations make submissions. Altogether 28 formal submissions were made. As a result of these submissions the Committee called representatives of 12 organisations to give further oral evidence before it at public hearings. These hearings were completed before the prorogation of the Parliament on 14 February 1974. The Committee was again reconstituted on 14 March 1974 and on 19 March 1974 the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill were again referred to the Committee for its consideration and report as early as possible. 
We all know that there was a further delay because the Opposition forced the Parliament into a double dissolution. The Senate was dissolved and naturally the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill were removed from the business paper of the Senate. It was only last week that the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control was reconstituted. Today for the third time the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill are before this House. 
We will come to that in a moment. After the honourable senators opposite had read the Bill and seen the amendments that the Government had taken on board as a result of submissions and the amendments put forward by the Opposition they should have given the BUI speedy passage through this House. But now the Bill is to be delayed again. Its consideration is to be deferred and it is to be referred to a committee. I do not want to have my views regarding the Committee misinterpreted, as I have the highest respect and regard for the members that served on the Committee that considered this Bill just as I have a high regard for the knowledge and the intelligence of the members of the newly constituted Committee. In no way am I reflecting on the people who comprise the Committee. I am really talking about the principle involved on this occasion. 
It is true that some time ago I did favour and support the idea of having the Bill again referred to the Committee so that it could complete its report. But there are changed circumstances now. Since I have examined the Bill and studied the amendments that the Minister has accepted in the other place I truthfully believe that the circumstances have changed completely and that no good purposes would be served by delaying the Bill any longer by referring it to a committee for report. The report will not alter the situation one way or another. 
As I was developing my case I said that I did not want my attitude regarding the Committee's work to be misinterpreted. I am highly complimentary of the excellent study it made of the Bill. But at this stage, so that I shall have the record right, permit me to express my appreciation of the work of that Committee. I should like to mention particularly the invaluable assistance of  Mr R.  Beetham of the Department of the Treasury and  Mr F.  Bennett of the Department of Manufacturing Industry, who gave sterling service to that Committee. Members who served on that Committee will recall that the inquiry was conducted against a background of intense adverse criticism of the Bill by particular industry groups. So intense was that criticism that a witness before the Committee- I refer to  Sir John  Dunlop- was subsequently subjected to personal embarrassment and his integrity reflected upon following an appearance before the Committee. As one of the members of that Committee, I felt that the Committee should have sought advice and taken privilege proceedings against the company that made the outburst against  Sir John 
Dunlop. However, that Committee had not finalised its report and so its intentions in the matter will have to remain buried until the report is completed. 
During the hearings of the Committee it was clear to me, as it was to other members of the Committee, that there was a lot of misunderstanding and conjecture regarding the meaning of the powers conferred by particular provisions in the Bills. There was misunderstanding and conjecture regarding the purpose behind some of the amendments to the original Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill. The majority of submissions and evidence expressed strong and generally pessimistic views regarding the implications of the Bills. But this in the main stemmed from misunderstanding and conjecture, as I said previously. I think it is true and fair to say at this juncture that the legislation was complex and that statements issued by the Government provided huie detail about important issues which the Bills raised. I think that is fair comment to make at this stage, but the Committee consideration has been helpful and has served a good purpose. The amendments that have been accepted by the Governmentamendments put forward by the Government and by the Opposition- have clarified the position. They have eliminated the misunderstanding and the conjecture that were evident when the submissions were being put before the Committee. Indeed, the Committee served a most useful purpose in bringing to the notice of the Government and the Opposition the necessity for amendments. These amendments have been accepted by the Government. 
Yes, it is a new ball game. True, the Bills before the Senate are new Bills but the Government has taken on board most of the major suggestions that were made by the Opposition and were contained in submissions made to the Committee. I honestly thought that when these amendments were accepted by the Government there would be agreement on both sides of the House. If there is any doubt about that, one has only to read the speech delivered by the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in the other place. This brings us to the point: What purpose really will be served by referring these Bills to the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control again? Have  Senator Cotton  or the Opposition further amendments in mind? 

 - Senator Cotton and  Senator Guilfoyle  say they have further amendments in mind. I have a high regard for their contributions and the services they gave to the Committee when they were members of it. They were highly respected by all other Committee members and the contributions of both of them were very valuable and useful. If they felt there were amendments of sufficient importance still to be included in the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill, why did not both senators remain on the Committee instead of having these amendments brought about by proxy? They were people with accumulated knowledge and experience who could have served this Committee well when it was finalising its report. But apparently they did not think there was an amendment important enough to warrant their remaining on the Committee and yet they now seek to introduce an amendment by proxy. 
Neither  Senator Cotton  nor  Senator Guilfoyle  is now on this Committee. Why should the Government be asked to take seriously the claim that  Senator Cotton  has made today- that there is still important work to be done by the Committeewhen both he and  Senator Guilfoyle  have retired as serving members of that Committee? I should like to say again that of the newly reconstituted Committee of eight there are only 2 senators who served on the previous Committee. They are my colleague from Queensland,  Senator Maunsell,  and me. It is true that the 6 new members of the Committee are men with experience and expertise in this field. They have a good knowledge of foreign ownership and control and they will make a valuable contribution to the work of the Committee in the future. But let us be realistic. What do they know of the submissions that were given by the 28 organisations to the previous Committee? The new members of the Committee did not hear the witnesses examined and were not present to get the benefit of the expert advice given by  Mr Bennett  and  Mr Beetham.  They now have to try to pick up the threads. 
Only someone out of his mind would say he could bring forward significant amendments to this Bill. The two people who could have brought forward such amendments are  Senator Cotton  and  Senator Guilfoyle;  but they did not think it important enough to remain as members of the Committee to see the report to its conclusion. I say, with respect to the 6 new senators who constitute this Committee- valuable as their assistance will be- that we are talking about something that has passed, something that should be rounded off. This in itself should be sufficient reason and proof why it would be a useless exercise to refer these Bills to the Committee again for further investigation and report. If people feel that there is a need for this and they still are not convinced otherwise, I quote to them remarks attributed to  Dr J.  F. Cairns, the Minister for Overseas Trade and the Minister in charge of this Bill. These remarks appear at page 66S of Hansard of 25 July for the other place.  Dr Cairns  said: 
I appreciate the attitude of the Opposition to the legislation on this occasion, especially the detailed speeches made by the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  in relation to the foreshadowed amendments. 
That was the claim made by the Minister in charge of the Bill in the other place. He was roundly acclaimed by the Opposition for having made it; and, the Opposition having received it in silence, one can only assume that he was correctly interpreting the attitude of the Opposition in the other place to these 2 Bills. So what divine right have Opposition senators got to take a different position from their colleagues in the other place? Why does the Senate want to be different and difficult in these situations? What knowledge do Opposition senators have which their colleagues in another place do not have because of which they will put forward amendments, suggested either here or by their representatives on the Committee, amendments which no one in the other place could think of? It is another exercise in frustration and delay; it cannot be interpreted as anything else. I would like to leave honourable senators opposite with this question: Why must honourable senators opposite be so difficult and so different in their attitude to these measures compared with their colleagues in another place? I leave that question with honourable senators opposite so that they may think about it and come up with the answer later on. 
Has the Minister for the Media seen reports that  Mr Harry  Miller, the well known entrepreneur, has expressed high praise for the publications issued by the Australian Information Service and has stated that they have formed the basis for his initial research for the organisation of a national festival in Canberra? Will the Minister agree that this statement by  Mr Miller  is a recognition of the very high skills and enterprise of officers of his Department? What steps is the Department of the Media taking to provide this sort of material to the Australian public as well as people abroad who are interested in obtaining information about Australia? 
Has the Minister for the Media seen reports that some television stations have arranged a whole series of special outside broadcasts in colour beginning from 19 October next? If these reports are correct, do they mean that stations would be in a position to broadcast continuous colour transmissions before the official date for the introduction of colour television? Would this involve a risk that some viewers might buy colour television sets which tune effectively to colour transmissions from one station but which may not tune to another station? 
Has the AttorneyGeneral's attention been drawn to the front page banner headline in last Friday's issue of the Brisbane 'Telegraph' which stated: 'Rates of Interest to Rise"? I hold up a copy of the headline. Was the support for this statement a prediction by a leading Liberal Party crystal ball gazer in Queensland,  Mr J.  C. Moore? As many people would have been misled by this headline into believing that the Australian Government had made a decision along those lines, will the AttorneyGeneral investigate the matter to see whether newspaper readers can be protected in some way from misleading and deceptive headlines such as this? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Media. Has his attention been drawn to a newspaper report that Sydney and Melbourne television audience survey figures for the months of July and August have continued to show the very strong increase in the number of television sets in use in the first 5 months of this year? Do the figures show that there has been a 6 per cent increase in the number of sets in use in Sydney and an increase of about 4 per cent in the number of sets in use in Melbourne? Is the Minister aware that this increase in sets in use corresponds with the time of the introduction by the Broadcasting Control Board of the controversial points system? Has the sales director of the Channel 7 network attributed the overall increase to better and more aggressive programming of Australian productions? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Does the Department of the Treasury have in the States research officers who are responsible for assessing current economic trends, especially with regard to lead indicators? Does the Treasury avail itself of the experience of officers in the States from other departments, such as the Department of Labor and Immigration, the Department of Overseas Trade, and the Department of Housing and Construction, who are daily involved in research in current trends in their respective departmental areas? If the Treasury does not have permanently within the States research officers responsible for these functions of research and liaison, will the Treasurer immediately investigate the obvious need for such positions with a view to establishing them? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the Prime Minister's announcement of his intention to attend the forthcoming meeting of the United Nations General Assembly, will the Minister tell the Senate what initiatives Australia will be taking there? 

 -Mr President, I ask for leave to make a statement concerning the action taken by the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control in respect of the Australian Industry Development Corporation and the National Investment Fund Bills. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister responsible for the arts. It follows upon the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition regarding the acquisition by the Australian National Gallery of the Willem de Kooning painting 'Woman V. I now ask the AttorneyGeneral: Will he confirm that the National Gallery of Victoria in 1973 purchased a painting Val-D Aosta' by Turner for $475,000 with money supplied by the State Liberal Government? The only reason the Victorian Government did not pay any more is that it got a painting only half as good as ours. If this is so, will the Attorney-General agree that purchases such as these for the cultural benefit of Australians are outside, and should be kept outside, the realm of party politics? 
Has the Minister for the Media seen a report that a senior advertising executive, an awards chairman of the Australian Television Society, has complained that there is a shortage of actors available to appear in television commercials? What is the reason for this shortage and what steps, if any, can be taken to overcome this problem? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction aware that George Stevens Pty Ltd, a Brisbane based building contractor and land developer, has gone into receivership and that  Mr Stevens  has blamed the Marxist policy of the Australian Government for the collapse of his company? Is the Minister also aware that the same  Mr George  Stevens picked up the tab for $20,000 from Leo Burnett Pty Ltd, an advertising agency, on behalf of the Australian Country Party in Queensland? Will the Minister inquire whether this bill has been paid? If it has not, will he use his best endeavours to see that the payment of it does not get priority over the payment of tradesmen or other people in the building industry? 
-Is the Minister for the Media aware of the latest development in the inquiry at present being conducted by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board into the alleged suppression by commercial television station of a news item relating to soaps and detergents? As a result of this development, will he agree that the Australian public now has ample reason to be very much concerned about the apparent attitude on the part of some television stations of putting the private profit motive before the public interest? Does he also agree that this is ample justification for the Government's proposals to amend the present outdated Broadcasting and Television Act? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction. Is the Department of Housing and Construction now receiving information on a quarterly basis from State valuation authorities on the number of residential allotments and dwellings sold in the major towns in each State and also in the major growth areas within those towns? If that is the case, will the Minister provided the Senate with information on the number of allotments sold, the average price and the percentage change from the previous quarter's price for the last 5 quarters? Will he also ensure that the State housing commissions, especially in Queensland where they are attempting to bail out their rip-off land developing friends, do not pay more than the average retail price for so-called bargain price land? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. As far as the economy is concerned and bearing in mind the question previously asked by  Senator Laucke,  can the Minister say what was the level of purchases of new motor vehicles in the September quarter compared with other quarters? Further, has the Minister seen reports that sales of colour television sets are far exceeding expectations and that demand is well exceeding supply? 
My question which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate concerns the economy. With the knowlege that man cannot live by bread alone, will the Minister inform the Senate of the level of consumption of beer, wine and spirits per head of population for the September quarter compared with previous quarters? In view of the quality of the answer which he gave me yesterday, he might also supply to the Senate comparative figures for cigarettes and tobacco for the same period. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a brief statement on this matter, as  chairman  of a committee. 
I have some concern about this decision. I feel that if evidence is taken in camera there is a reason for doing it. Now this evidence which was taken in camera will be published. I offer this word of caution: I would hate to see a decision made on this matter here and now. I would like to see it referred to the appropriate Senate committee to see whether this procedure is in order and to obtain its imprimatur before we finalise the matter. I say this because such a decision could be taken as a precedent for other committees. 
Does the AttorneyGeneral appreciate that governments can gain considerable control over multi-national corporations simply by legislating on the duties and responsibilities of company directors? Does he envisage future legislation which would define the duties and responsibilities of directors and thus give more Australian influence on the behaviour of multi-national corporations? 
-Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that Totalisator Agency Board investments on Melbourne Cup day reached record figures in all States? Does the Leader agree that this does not bear out the contention of the prophets of gloom that the country is down on its uppers and facing bankruptcy? 
-I bring up the report of Estimates Committee C relating to the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1974-75, together with the Hansard record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
It is true, as  Senator Baume  has said, that before the suspension of the sitting for dinner he made certain statements and accusations which I interpret as reflecting on the members of Senate Estimates Committee C and on myself as  chairman.  He reflected on his own colleagues  Senator Laucke, Senator Scott  and  Senator Guilfoyle  and also on honourable senators from this side of the chamber, namely, Senators Coleman and Melzer and myself. I regard the honourable senator as reflecting on them because he said that he was stifled by not being allowed to ask questions. Before Estimates Committee C commenced its questioning on the estimates of the Department of Tourism and Recreation, Department of the Media and Department of Education I laid down guidelines for the procedures which would be followed regarding questioning. It was unanimously agreed by the members of Estimates Committee C that we would deal with the Estimates division by division, that we would go around the table commencing clockwise and afterwards we would go anti-clockwise. After the members of the Committee had been invited to ask any questions regarding the division or subdivision it was agreed that we would then invite to ask questions any other honourable senators who were present at the hearing. This procedure was agreed upon unanimously by the Committee. At no time did the Committee ever deviate from this procedure. 
As I am prompted and reminded it was a procedure which was introduced by previous chairmen when honourable senators opposite were in government.  Senator Baume  was not present at any time during the discussion on the estimates for the Department of Tourism and Recreation. He came in at the latter part of the discussion on the Department of the Media. When  Senator Guilfoyle  had asked many pertinent and intelligent questions of the Minister and of the departmental representatives  Senator Baume  endeavoured to get on the bandwagon. I broke the procedure and allowed him to ask a supplementary question following a question asked by  Senator Guilfoyle. Senator Baume  came in again at the latter part of the questioning on the estimates for the Australian Broadcasting Commission and on the latter part of the estimates for the Department of Education. In all he asked 5 questions and received 5 answers. Never at any time was he refused the call if he wanted to continue his questioning. He was completely exhausted because he had no knowledge or expertise with which to ask the witnesses or the Minister for any information. Some of the gems which fell from his lips by way of questioning are these: 

 Mr Connolly of the Department answered the question.  Senator Baume  asked: 
Shall we then see this item decreasing? 

 Mr Connolly stated: 
One would hope so. 
That is the type of question which was asked by  Senator Baume.  This is the gem which fell from  Senator Baume  's lips in the discussion on the estimates for the Department of Education: 

 Mr Scutt; The standard rate which applies to all Australian Government Committees. I think it is $35 a day. 
Later on  Senator Baume  asked: 
What is the variation in those figures from the year before? 
This followed a question asked by  Senator Laucke.  The departmental officer answered: 
I have not got that comparison with me, but I could make it available to the Committee. 
That information has been made available to the Committee. I wonder whether  Senator Baume  has displayed interest in going to the Committee secretariat and asking for a copy of the information. I shall let him answer that question himself. As  chairman  I cannot be blamed if  Senator Baume  found himself at the questioning as a preliminary boy among the champions. If he felt out of his depth he should not blame me. Somebody said that he should change his mentor and replace  Senator Greenwood  with somebody else. I believe that the action of  Senator Baume  in reflecting not only on his own colleagues but also on other honourable senators who were members of that Committee was a most despicable act. The worst part of all is that the honourable senator who is a johnny-come-lately reflected on the integrity - 
-I am amazed to think that an honourable senator with such short experience in the Senate should have taken it upon himself to reflect on colleagues who have greater experience.  Senator Baume  should have congratulated the members of Senate Estimates Committee C who got on with the business for which Senate Estimates committees are constituted. They sought information from the Minister and from the departmental representatives. Unlike other honourable senators in this chamber on other committees the members of Committee C did not put the departmental representatives through an inquisition. They did not start questioning in order to embarrass them for political advantage. This Committee, to the credit of  Senator Laucke, Senator Scott, Senator Guilfoyle, Senator Melzer  and  Senator Coleman  got on with the business of the Estimates. Because they attended to the business before Estimates Committee C they were able to complete their questioning by 9.30 p.m. They did not engage in useless political manoeuvring. If there is any doubt about how the members of the Committee felt in regard to the conduct of Estimates Committee C let me read to the chamber the unanimous resolution that was carried by members of that Committee. It reads: 
The Committee wishes to express its thanks to the Minister for the Media,  Senator Douglas  McClelland, and to the departmental officers for the full and frank response which the Committee received to its questioning. 
It is hard to know how long he was there. He made 2 fleeting appearances. I do not wish to reflect on you,  Mr Chairman,  but I must say that I was surprised this evening that a senator of your experience and one who has shown fairness over a long period of time should have allowed  Senator Baume  to continue. I hope that you were not smarting from being rebuffed today from the Chair when you really did endeavour to breach the Standing Orders by attempting to speak twice in the same debate. It was so out of character of you this evening when you were in the Chair to allow  Senator Baume  to continue reflecting on his colleagues and other senators by saying that he was denied the opportunity to ask questions at Committee C. I forgive you on this occasion because I know that you were preoccupied with an earlier happening and I hope that will never occur again. After all,  Senator Baume  did reflect on the Committee and you did make me withdraw for having called  Senator Carrick  a phoney. As I told  Senator Baume  early in the piece in this chamber, when new senators come here, irrespective of what side they sit on, the senators in this place are willing to make available to them their experience and to give any advice or help to them in any way. I have met  Senator Baume  many times in the lobby and we have had a discussion. If there was any way in which I could have offered advice about some place or something else I have endeavoured to help him. I will give him a word of advice: Next time before he engages in irresponsibilities as he did today, he should check the facts and have his facts right. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Media. Did the Australian film 'Between Wars' have its premiere yesterday? Has Judy Morris, one of the actresses in 'Between Wars', attributed the commercial success of films like this to 3 factors? Will the Minister confirm that these factors are: The Australian Government, the new nationalism, and the feat of the great Australian writer Patrick White in winning the Nobel Prize for Literature? 
I preface my question to the Minister for Customs and Excise by saying that last year the Minister established an interdepartmental committee to examine the customs valuation system. As there is considerable interest in industry and commerce in the work of the committee, will the Minister tell the Senate when the requested Green Paper entitled 'A Review of Australia's Customs Valuation System ' will be published? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: Does he remember the Minister for Transport announcing last year, following the visit to Australia of the Chinese Minister for Foreign Trade, that the Chinese Government would be interested in the Australian National Line participating on a joint basis with Chinese flag ships in the ChinaAustralia trade? Can the Minister tell the Senate whether there are any developments from these discussions and what likelihood there is of such an arrangement? 
I ask the Minister for the Media: Is he aware that there is some concern that the Music Broadcasting Societies authorised by the Government to establish experimental radio stations in Sydney and Melbourne are experiencing difficulties in establishing these stations? Will the Minister advise the Senate whether these difficulties have arisen from problems associated with meeting the technical standards laid down by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board? Will he tell the Senate what measures he proposes to take to ensure that these Societies can overcome these difficulties in establishing their stations? 
-As Chairman of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, I present the 149th and 150th reports of the Public Accounts Committee. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
I seek leave to have a short statement incorporated in Hansard. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, follows upon a question that was asked of the Minister yesterday by  Senator Devitt  in relation to poison gas tes.s on World War II troops. Is the Minister aware that by way of reply he is reported as having said that repatriation benefits may not be available to World War I or World War II veterans who may become incapacitated as a result of poison gas experiments? I would like the Minister to tell the Senate whether this report is correct. If it is not, what is the true position regarding these veterans who have been incapacitated by poison gas experiments? 

 -Mr Deputy President, as  Chairman  of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, I present the 151st and 152nd reports of the Public Accounts Committee. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 

 - Mr Deputy President, I seek leave to have a short statement incorporated in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
The 15 1st report of the Public Accounts Committee is concerned with the Committee 's inquiry into delays in the payment of accounts by Australian Government departments. The inquiry arose as a result of the Committee's surveillance of a Treasury circular relating to the prompt payment of accounts. In its inquiry the Committee took evidence from the Department of the Treasury, the Department of the Capital Territory, the Department of the Media, the Department of the Northern Territory, the PostmasterGeneral 's Department and the Department of Supply. 
The evidence presented to the Committee, and the most recent observations made by the Auditor-General, show that a number of departments have been responsible for excessive delays in the payment of accounts, both to departmental and private creditors. It seems to the Committee that at present departments charging other departments for services are required to allocate a disproportionate amount of their staff resources to following up unpaid accounts which, if paying departments were to meet their financial obligations on time, could be greatly reduced. The Committee has suggested that departments should make an effort to reduce the delays in the payment of accounts by reviewing their procedures and by increasing the degree of supervision exercised in the payment of accounts area. The Committee intends to maintain a close watch on the position and will conduct further inquiries into this matter, if required. 
The Committee has, for many years, conducted combined inquiries relating to expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer and expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund but has tabled separate reports on both aspects of these inquiries. The 152nd report relates specifically to evidence taken by the Committee in connection with expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer in 1973-74. As honourable senators are aware, after the close of each financial year the Treasurer submits to the Parliament for its consideration and approval a statement of expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer showing allocations to heads of expenditure made by him from the advance under section 36a of the Audit Act. The Committee carries out the parliamentary scrutiny of this past expenditure by obtaining explanations from departments for each item of expenditure charged to the advance and selecting the more notable of these for public inquiry. 
In chapter 1 of the report the Committee has stated that, in examining expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer, it has sought to ascertain whether or not expenditure from the advance has been confined to urgent and unforeseeable requirements for which provision could not have been made in the original and additional estimates. The Committee has also sought to ascertain whether or not the departments concerned in the inquiry have maintained efficient administration in the expenditure of funds under the items selected for public inquiry. As the report shows, there were cases where expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer was confined to urgent and unforeseeable requirements for which provision could not have been made in the Appropriation Acts. In other cases, however, there was evidence of clerical errors, inefficient estimating procedures, and delays which caused expenditure to be charged to the advance when provision should properly have been made in the additional estimates. Attention has been drawn to these inadequacies where they have been discovered. 
As in several previous inquiries relating to expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer, the Committee has found evidence of amounts being charged to the Advance without warrant authority, in contravention of Treasury regulation 90 ( 1 ). All of these overcharges arose from clerical errors. The Committee had cause to comment adversely on the brevity of some departmental explanations and the fact that some withnesses appearing before the Committee were inadequately briefed. I commend the reports to honourable senators. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for the Media. Will the Minister tell the Senate what progress has been made regarding the introduction of colour television in Mount Isa? Will he also tell the Senate the position in regard to the introduction of colour television transmission in other major country centres? 
Yes, it is. It is amendment No. 1 on the list. 
The Minister may give to the Corporation such directions in writing as he thinks necessary in connection with the performance of the duty of the Corporation under sub-section (1). 
That proposed sub-section clearly provides for government interference in the operations of the Corporation, particularly if it is going to be concerned with directions in relation to what trade union organisations may decide is in the interests of their members. Why should the Minister be able to direct the Corporation to operate in this field? Therefore I move: 
Leave out proposed sub-section 20a. (2 ). 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added to proposed section 20a  (1  )  (Senator Maunsell's amendment)  be added. 
-I present a report on the proceedings of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control since it reported last in October 1972, and to table the evidence taken during the Committee's public hearings in respect of the fuel and energy resources inquiry conducted during 1 973. 
Ordered that the report  be  printed. 
Motion  (by  Senator McAuliffe)-  by leaveagreed to: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
Motion  (by  Senator McAuliffe)-  agreed to: 
That consideration of the report be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
I refer the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to a statement he made last Thursday that he had approved a grant of $6,000 to the Palm Island Co-operative for the establishment of a fruit and vegetable agricultural project. Has he seen a statement in the Brisbane 'Courier-Mail' by a  Mr J.  V. Dillon, a District Officer of the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs, in which he was reported as declaring that the Palm Island Cooperative could not accept the funds because a co-operative did not exist? Is there any truth in this statement or in  Mr Dillon's  claim that the Co-operative failed to attract any interest among the Palm Island community? 
Has the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs seen an article in the 'Sydney Morning Herald ' last Saturday to the effect that descendants of Pacific islanders brought to Australia as slave labour last century are planning an appeal to the United Nations against what they allege is racial discrimination by Federal and State governments in Australia? Will the Minister advise the Senate of the position in Australia with respect of Pacific islanders? Does he agree with those persons quoted in the article last Saturday that the Government is acting in a discriminatory manner against them? 
Has the Minister for Agriculture seen Queensland Press reports that the Premier of Queensland, the Honourable J. Bjelke-Petersen, is expecting to sign long term trade agreements with Japan for Queensland beef. What does the Minister know about this matter? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Agriculture. Last week, in reply to a question from me about a claim by  Mr Joh  Bjelke-Petersen, the Premier of Queensland, that he was entering into a trade agreement with Japan for Queensland beef, the Minister said that he did not think this would ever eventuate because the negotiations were handled by the Australian Meat Board. I now say that subsequent events have proven the Minister to be correct because the Premier of Queensland has applied a half-Nelson to the Japanese and has said: 'You take our beef or you do not get our coal'. 
Opposition senators- What is your question? 
I will ask my question now. It is one honourable senators opposite will not want to hear because they have no answer to it. 
I ask the Minister for the Media whether it is true that from midnight next Friday there will be full colour transmission of television in Australia. Does the Minister expect any problems in regard to stations providing a colour service throughout Australia? If some stations are experiencing delays in transmitting in colour when does he expect that they will be able to give this service? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Following the visit of  Mr Clyde  Cameron, the Minister for Labor and Immigration, to Brisbane last weekend for discussions with Brisbane's Lord Mayor and  Mr Cameron's  achievement, which was a feather in his cap, as the architect of a scheme which will provide over 1000 jobs for unemployed workers in Brisbane, can the Minister give any indication of the extent of the various Regional Employment Development scheme proposals for Brisbane? Can he say how soon employment will be available? 
Can the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation confirm news reports that there was a fire in a repatriation hospital in which an employee of the Department died? Will the Minister inform the Senate of the details surrounding the fire and the death of the employee? 
-I bring up the final report, report No. 3, of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask for leave to move a motion for the Senate to take note of the report. 
I support the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill. Both these Bills are before the Senate now for the fourth time. I do not think I need to remind honourable senators, because they will recall it, that on the 3 previous occasions these Bills were before the Senate the Opposition rejected the provisions contained in the Bills in their entirety. After fully debating these measures on 3 previous occasions I feel almost ashamed to stand in this chamber this evening because I have so little to offer which is worthy of attention. There is no new story to tell. I thought that the Liberal-Country Party senators would have worn themselves out by now in regard to this controversy and that they would have adduced new arguments to support the opinions that they have been advancing for the last 18 months. However, it is not to be. I know that everybody will realise that that is not the fault of Government senators. We cannot turn and twist and change our opinions and put forward new ones every full moon as the Opposition senators so adroitly do. 
All our convictions and all our opinions on these 2 Bills remain what they have always been and the arguments with which we support the Bills are therefore the same. Our point of view is not changed and consequently there must of necessity be some monotony in this debate. One would call the speeches of Opposition senators monotonous repetition. Therefore I make no apology to the Senate this evening if once more in the most simple of language I attempt to place before the Senate the issues upon which the Senate has to decide. The first issue is simple and clear. Does the Senate think it necessary to develop the scope and power of the AIDC in developing Australia's basic resources and strengthening Australia's control over these resources? One of the specific platforms and policies on which this Government was elected and re-elected was that it would expand the activities of the AIDC and enable it more effectively to do the jobs that it was designed to do. That provision was in our platform when we went to the electors in December 1 972 and again when we were re-elected in May 1974. 
I would have thought that by now it would have been perfectly clear to honourable senators that the great majority of Australian people had accepted this idea. Yet the Opposition continues to reject the measures every time we place them before this chamber. After 3 full dress debates and a referral to the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control for consideration 1 believe that these Bills have had the most intensive and most lengthy consideration of any Bill that has ever come before the Parliament in this country. 
I am coming to that. As 1 said, 1 believe that these Bills have had the most intensive and most lengthy consideration that any Bill has had in the history of tills Parliament and now we heard this evening from  Senator Durack,  on behalf of the Opposition, saying that it is prepared to go halfway up the road and support the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill. At long last the Opposition will support the AIDC Bill, but it will not support the National Investment Fund Bill. After 1 8 months of continual debate in this chamber the Opposition is now saying that it will support the AIDC Bill, completely recognises the case that continually has been put forward by the Government since the Bills were first introduced. I ask honourable senators to consider that the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control had before it 28 submissions and called representatives of 12 organisations to give oral evidence at a series of public hearings. At those hearings it became quite obvious to me, from the outset, that witnesses who were representing the banks, the insurance companies and the finance houses displayed open hostility to the Bills without completely understanding them or trying to understand the measures contained in the Bills, lt appeared to me that those witnesses had made up their minds what they were going to do long before they even appeared before the Committee. There were claims of nationalisation through the back door. 
The giving of evidence was preceded by alarmist stories in the newspapers that the Government wanted to nationalise financial institutions. The Senate inquiry into the Bills had turned into a public debate on socialism. I know that there have been many public debates on many public platforms on this issue but the debate that took place before the Senate Committee was a different sort of debate because those debating the issue of socialism were giving sworn evidence. Those of us who were privileged to have served on that Committee and those who may have been present at the hearing on a particular day will recall the young  president  of one of the manufacturing groups from Melbourne. He made a caustic attack in his submission upon the Government and stated that the  2  Bills were designed to introduce socialism by stealth or by the back door. The  Chairman  of the Committee, former  Senator Hartley  Cant, saw the witness and said that before he would allow him to appear before the Committee he would have to amend the portion of his submission where the charges of being corrupt and wanting to introduce socialism were mentioned. The witness agreed to amend his submission. But when he appeared before the Committee he could not resist attacking the Government and a most interesting debate took place. The experienced  Senator Cant,  the heavyweight in the affair, completely outwitted the preliminary boy from Melbourne on the question of socialism. I commend the transcript of that phase of the evidence of the Committee to honourable senators to read. 
lt was an exercise in experience and was not an exercise in coercion. It was placing the issues which the Committee had before it fairly and squarely in front of the witness. I heard witnesses give their evidence before the Committee and I could not help but form the opinion- there was no doubt in my mind whatever- that eventually the ideological differences between the Labor Party and the Opposition on these Bills would have made it impossible for the Committee to bring down a report. I believe that the best the Committee could have hoped for was a majority report and a minority report. 1 do not have to remind the Senate of the criticism that was levelled at  Sir John  Dunlop at the time by the Bank of New South Wales and the subsequent events that led to his retirement from the directorate of that company. We all know that  Sir John  Dunlop is one of Australia's leading industrialists. He was a director of the Australian Industry Development Corporation and he stated publicly that the fears of the banks and the other financial institutions that the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill were attempts by the Australian Government to socialise were without foundation. He said publicly that in fact he wholeheartedly supported the proposed measures. It is serious enough that the companies should look at. the Bills through jaundiced eyes, as I have said; but the witnesses had all made up their minds before they appeared before the Committee. I believe that the most far-reaching implication is that in the future men with experience and knowledge will be reluctant to serve on Australian Government committees or corporations for fear of retaliation by their fellow directors. Surely this is not a healthy situation. 
I have heard reference made to the poor track record of the AIDC. It was referred to by  Senator Durack.  He said that it made only $8 13,000. He could have told the Senate of many prestige companies in Australia- companies in the top rank of Australian industry- that have collapsed in recent years. I think his statement was a reflection on the men who constitute the board of the AIDC. In sharp contrast to his opinion of these men is the opinion of the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  of the directors. 
The Treasurer of Australia,  Dr Cairns.  He is reported at page 567 of Hansard for the House of Representatives of 20 February 1975 as having said: 
Also, the AIDC is not run by a group of people with ideological concepts which are even similar to those of the Government. The AIDC has a board of directors who include some most distinguished directors. These are people with long and distinguished experience and achievement in private industry.  Decsions  made by them are made in the context of their own experience. As in every area, some decisions result in success, some decisions result in profits; others do not. The AIDC is no different from any other organisation in this respect. 
So much for that point. In the other place the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  spent more than half of his speech on these Bills in that place in repeating a statement that I had made in this place on behalf of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control. He seemed to think that that was the most powerful weapon with which to refute claims by the Government. 
It is true that I put down a statement in this place in 26 September 1974, on behalf of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control, and it is true that in it, as previous speakers have said, I refuted a claim by the then Minister for Overseas Trade,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, that the Government was being frustrated in the passage of the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill by undue delays on the part of the Senate Committee in bringing in its report. I pointed out also at the time- these are the important points- that the prorogation of the Parliament, the double dissolution and the discharging and reconstituting of committees made it impossible for the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control to report on the scheduled date, 12 March 1974, or even at a much later date. That was the punchline in the whole of the Committee's report at that time. I do not deny that I made that statement, but I think it is important for honourable senators who are present this evening to remember that the statement was put down in the context that it was a reply to charges that the Senate Committee was lazy in not reporting by 12 March 1974 or a date soon afterwards. 
They were made by  Dr Cairns  and I replied to them. I was supported by the Senate Committee. I thought at the time that the Minister had reflected adversely on the Committee. I am still of that opinion. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Order! The honourable senator must not reflect on a member of the other House. 
I will say that I felt that the Minister was wrong in blaming the Committee for any delay in presenting its report. I have no reason to alter that opinion. I am still of that opinion. In view of the second reading speech made by the Treasurer in the other place on 1 1 February, I believe that he now accepts that situation. If honourable senators care to read the second reading speech made by the Treasurer in the House of Representatives on 1 1 February, they will see that the Treasurer accepted the situation that the Committee had pointed out previously. 
I remember the day on which I made that statement. Opposition senators were bobbing up and down like corks, trying to be flattering by saying that they congratulated me for having the courage to state the facts to the Senate. The thing in which they were rejoicing was that I appeared to have made an attack on a colleague in another place. I did not make an attack on any colleague; I placed before the Senate the position as it was correctly reported. I know that a lot of political manoeuvring went on that day in an endeavour to use that statement as an excuse and to say that it was not the Opposition that was responsible for the delays. Honourable senators opposite tried to use me to show or to prove that it was the Government that was responsible for the delays. They were getting away with it until  Senator Steele  Hall made his contribution. In his usual alert manner he was right on the ball. I quote from page 1449 of Hansard of 26 September 1974, where  Senator Steele  Hall is reported as saying: 
I go back to my point that the delay was caused essentially by the action of the Opposition in causing a double dissolution. They therefore bear heavily on the reasons why the Bills were delayed. I do not agree with the general run for cover which is being taken by Opposition speakers who are using this report as a crutch for explaining why they should not have proceeded with the consideration of the Bills and as an excuse for not finding sufficient means to amend the Bills according to its desires. Opposition senators surely must have known what their representations were to the Committee. Having fully considered the matter, whether the Committee has so decided, according to them, or not, they surely must have known what their parties wanted to have done to those particular Bills. 
Once again he was spot on. He devastated in one sweep the Opposition's case of trying to use the statement that I had put down and of swinging it round to support its stance in regard to these Bills. Even though I tabled that report and stated the reasons why the Committee was unable to bring in its report by 12 March 1974, or some time soon after that, that was only half of the answer. 
Let us try now to go to the bottom of the matter. I have no doubt whatsoever that the motion of referral to the Senate Committee on the second occasion was a delaying tactic which could not possibly have achieved anything. I think on that occasion I pointed out that the Senate wanted to refer it to the newly established Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control on which six out of the 8 members were new members. 
When we were discussing the likelihood of the Bill coming back to us  Senator Durack  and the other 5 new senators said: 'We cannot accept the submissions that were given to the other committee. We did not see the submissions. We should not be expected to read through the tedious manuscripts. We never saw the witnesses being examined. We do not know the climate or the mood in which the questions were asked and the answers were given.' They left no doubt in my mind that they were not in a position to be able to consider any further the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill. That opinion, which was offered to me as the  Chairman  at the time, influenced me to bring down the statement I did on 26 September 1974. 
Two of the most eloquent speakers for the referral motion again were 2 senators on the other side of long experience on the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control. I must say that it is to their credit that while they served on that Committee they made valuable contributions. I refer to  Senator Cotton  and  Senator Margaret  Guilfoyle. They were two of the most valuable senators on that Committee. But in making an address supporting a motion for referral of the matter to this Committee for the second time, in reply to an interjection from me they said that they wanted the Bills referred to the Committee for further consideration because they had important further amendments to bring up. The amendments were so important to both of them that they did not think they were good enough even to remain as members of the Committee to see what the fate of the amendments would be. They did not allow themselves to go forward for re-election to the newly constituted Committee. They left the amendments to be handled by 6 men who said that they were inexperienced to handle them. 
So much for the humbug of the second referral. There was some ground for the first one. I think the first referral achieved a lot because it educated the Committee on what the intent of the 2 Bills was. I think it educated the witnesses and I think the Minister learnt a lot out of it. He showed a keen desire and appreciation of the work of that first committee by taking 28 amendments on board. But that first referral has been dispensed with. We are now looking at the second referral, which was only a delaying tactic. It could not have achieved anything because the brains of the Committee were no longer on it. I refer to the senators who wanted to steer the amendments through and to be the architects of the new amendments if we were to get a useful report. They did not think it was important enough to offer themselves for re-election. So let us have no more of the humbug about delaying and claiming that the Government will not allow favourable or lengthy consideration to be given to the Bills. 
I have heard it said repeatedly by honourable senators opposite that they like the principles in these 2 Bills but they do not trust the Government. I am glad of that, because the day I find them supporting us, in full agreement with us and saying that they are trusting us and we are doing the right thing, is the day we will want to have a hard look at ourselves because that is the day we will probably have made the wrong decision. Now for the National Investment Fund. 
You support the AIDC but only after you have emasculated the Bill. It is hardly recognisable. There are 28 amendments. The Opposition did not support the original measure. It has watered it down so much that one is hardly able to recognise it. Now for the National Investment Fund Bill, the second issue in this debate. We all know, and all honourable senators opposite agree, that the National Investment Fund is an important part of the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill. The Australian Industry Development Corporation must have access, as must have any other corporation which is attempting to play a role in the economy, to Australian funds. But when the AIDC was first designed it was deliberately excluded from access to Australian funds, not with the intention of making it more effective or giving it better resources, but quite the opposite. There were very few funds available in the Australian marketplace at the time. I think that situation is realised and appreciated by all honourable senators. Even the architect of the Australian Industry Development Corporation,  Sir John  McEwen, the champion of the Australian Country Party, felt that eventually there would have to be an expanded Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill, as did everybody else who examined the Bill at the time that he introduced it. It was felt that AIDC should have access to Australian funds on something like a comparable basis with other organisations. That is what the Bill proposes to do. 
We have heard it being examined under the microscope by  Senator Durack.  All the Bill wants to do is to allow AIDC to be able to compete with other comparable organisations in Australia. At no stage was it ever designed to give AIDC any advantage over anybody else. It simply provides for a national fund to which Australian citizens who want to help the development of their own country may freely contribute. We are proud that Australia has never repudiated a debt. I believe that Australia, if it is not the only country, is one of the very few countries in the world that has paid all its debts, including its war debts. The Australian coat of arms has been sufficient guarantee to Australian investors. An Australian government guaranteed investment is gilt edged. It is on that basis that the National Investment Fund will compete against other similar organisations in the market place. 
Honourable senators will recall the run on the building societies towards the end of last year. They will recall the near crisis when the building societies were threatened with closure until the Treasurer of the day,  Dr Cairns,  and the Minister for Social Security,  Mr Bill  Hayden, went on television and assured the Australian public that the Australian Government would guarantee the building societies. The run stopped and the crisis was averted. Of course honourable senators opposite know as well as I do that the coat of arms of Australia is the best security for an investment they can get in any part of this country. 
In conclusion let me say how ridiculous are the pretences of the Opposition. Honourable senators opposite continually reject these Bills, yet they profess to agree in principle to them. Everybody on the Committee that examined the Bills agreed in principle but nobody wanted to see a unanimous report giving the Bills the teeth for which they were looking. Can there be anything more absurd than these pretences? Can there be anything more absurd than the Opposition's throwing out the Bills which it ackowledges to be good because it fears that at some time or other somebody will do something under the Bills which it expects to be bad? It is as ridiculous as a man who refused a $10 note that was offered to him because he suspected that his debtor would pay the second account with a forged cheque. A man would be a fool or lunatic who did anything of the sort. A sensible tradesman would take the money and wait for the forged cheque to be presented before he attempted to do anything with it. 
The conclusion I come to is that the Opposition support for the principles contained in the 2 Bills is insincere. The Opposition does not want the 2 Bills to be married or put together or voted upon in that way because, by separating the Bills, it hopes to destroy both at the same time. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That ( 1 ) A Standing Committee be appointed, to be called the Standing Committee on National Development and Ownership and Control of Australian Resources, with power to inquire into and report upon such matters as are referred to it by the Senate from time to time. 
The Committee have power to consider the Minutes of Evidence and records of the Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control appointed in previous sessions. 
The Committee consist of six Senators, three being members of the Government Party, to be nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, and three being Senators who are not members of the Government Party, two to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate and one by the Leader of the Australian Country Party in the Senate. 
The Committee elect a Government member as Chairman. 
The  Chairman  may from time to time appoint a member of the Committee to be the Deputy-Chairman and the member so appointed shall act as  Chairman  of the Committee at any time when there is no  Chairman  or the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the Committee. 
In the event of an equality of voting, the  Chairman,  or the Deputy-Chairman when acting as  Chairman,  shall have a casting vote. 
The quorum of the Committee be three. 
A  Senator, though  not a member of the Standing Committee, may participate in its public sessions and question witnesses, unless the Committee orders otherwise, but shall not vote. 
The Committee have power to appoint subcommittees, consisting of three or more of its members, and to refer to any such sub-committee any of the matters which the Committee is empowered to consider. The quorum of a sub-committee shall be a majority of the members appointed. 
The Committee or any sub-committee have power to send for and examine persons, papers and records, to move from place to place, and to meet and transact business in public or private sessions and notwithstanding any prorogation of the Parliament or dissolution of the House of Representatives. 
Members of the public and representatives of the news media may attend and report any public session of the Committee, unless the Committee otherwise orders. 
12) The Committee be empowered to print from day to day such papers and evidence as may be ordered by it. A daily Hansard shall be published of such proceedings of the Committee as take place in public. 
The Committee be provided with all necessary staff, facilities and resources and be empowered to appoint persons with specialist knowlege for the purpose of the Committee, with the approval of the  President. 
The Committee have leave to report from time to time its proceedings and the evidence taken and such recommendations as it may deem fit, and is expected to make regular reports as to the progress of the proceedings of the Committee. 
The foregoing provisions of this Resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the Standing Orders, shall have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
-Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of statements by  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Peacock  that the Government has deliberately denied the Opposition adequate information on the situation in Indo-China? Can the Minister tell the Senate whether  Mr Peacock  or  Mr Fraser  has made any request to him, to his office or to his Department for information regarding foreign affairs matters? 
My question is addressed to the Postmaster-General. The Premier of Queensland, the honourable Joh BjelkePetersen, recently claimed that his telephone was being tapped, particularly when the Australian Government wanted to tune in on his conversations with the Japanese regarding the sale of Australian beef. I ask the Postmaster-General: Is there any truth in the claims made by the Queensland Premier? Is the Minister aware of approval having been granted for the tapping of anybody's telephone in Queensland? 
A great writer once said that if a London cab man introduced sixpenny fares he would make a fortune in a year, but the writer added that if the cab man had the sense to introduce sixpenny fares he would not be a London cab man. I think we can say of the honourable senators opposite that if they had the sense to stop their destructive policy, their frustration and their opposition to our measures just for the sake of oppositionthis has been going on ever since this Party came to power- and adopted a progressive social reform policy it is possible that they could come back into power in Canberra. But then again if they had the sense to do this they would not be Liberals. I read recently that the rhinoceros is a wicked animal because when it is attacked it defends itself. I find this Government in a somewhat similar position. For a long time now many honourable senators opposite have been carrying on a form of petty political persecution and, if they liked, they could put upon this Government at any time simply because they have the numbers in this place. 
For a long time the Opposition has perverted, delayed and denied justice in regard to legislation that has been before this House. On occasions members of the Opposition have grudgingly agreed- I emphasise the word 'grudgingly' to legislation that they have found impossible to withhold any longer because of pressure in the electorate. Before I address myself directly to the Bill I crave the indulgence of the Senate for a moment to make this passing comment: We on this side of the House have been very patient in the past regarding the attitude and the strategy of honourable members opposite. But when in the last session one could see some Opposition senators cheerfully discussing how they were going to throw out Supply legislation and some others cheerfully discussing how they were going to throw out the Budget we, like the rhinoceros, decided that we had better start to defend ourselves. Directly we commenced to fight we found that we had won. 
I take the minds of honourable senators opposite back to what has happened in the last 2 weeks when there was a change of government in their Party. Upon his election the new leader said that his policy would be against frustration of legislation in the Senate and that the Government would not be forced to an election by the withholding of Supply or the throwing out of the Budget. He was a very good judge of the political climate at the time because the gallup poll last weekend showed that if an election were held the Government would be returned. The electorate expressed in no uncertain terms that it did not want any part of the shenanigans of the Opposition. The electorate believed that when a government is elected it should be elected for a 3-year term, more particularly in the case of a government that has been elected twice in  Vh  years. 
I feel that the people have spoken quite emphatically and have expressed their opinion. Sanity appears to have been restored to the Opposition by the statement of its new leader. We on this side of the House sincerely hope that the Opposition has learnt its lesson. As I have said, on 2 occasions the electors have shown that they trust us and trust our policies, So, I earnestly appeal to honourable senators opposite to cut out this tommyrot and in future to let the shape of their speeches be constructive and to give due consideration to measures that are before the House. Their speeches should not be made merely as a delaying tactic. 
This brings me to the important measure that is before the chamber this evening, the Australian Housing Corporation Bill 1975. 1 believe it is an important measure on many scores. One of the important things is that it gives honourable senators an opportunity to voice any ideas that they may have on housing generally and to submit any views or suggestions that they may be able to make for the consideration of the Senate and which may be useful to the Government and the community at large. I was disappointed, to say the least, to hear  Senator Carrick  this evening express the attitude of the Opposition, with which no doubt other Opposition senators must associate themselves because  Senator Carrick  is their spokesman on housing. It has become abundantly clear to me, and it should be abundantly clear to honourable senators opposite who have read the legislation, that the main purpose of the Australian Housing Corporation will be to upgrade the process whereby assistance will be given to the lower income earner to purchase a modest home or a dwelling unit. It is designed to give assistance to the lower income earner or, alternatively, to allow the lower income earner to obtain adequate rented accommodation where home ownership is not readily attainable or desirable. Surely any initiative that has this as its main objective is worthy of the unanimous support of everybody in this chamber. No honourable senator worth his salt could decently oppose the principle contained in this measure. The proposed Corporation has other advantages. The Corporation will not, as  Senator Carrick  has said, be in opposition to or rival the State housing authorities. Rather, this 
Corporation will be the Australian Government's means of complementing the State housing authorities. 
The Australian Government, through the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  and  Senator Cavanagh,  the Minister representing him in this place, has given an assurance that the Australian Government will continue to provide whatever finance State authorities can spend effectively on public housing for low income earners in 1974-75. It is important at this stage to reflect on that assurance and to see that it is supported by facts. In 1974-75 the Australian Government advances to the States for housing have been further increased to $345m, an increase of $ 124m over the 1973-74 allocation and almost double the amount made available to the States for welfare housing when the previous Government was in power for the financial year 1 972-73. The Corporation will also be the Australian Government agent to provide housing assistance to categories of persons who do not qualify now. It will be the agency to provide this assistance to people who do not qualify at the present time under the provisions laid down by the States own housing authorities. For example, a person who is earning more than $ 140 a week is ineligible for assistance from either the housing commissions or the home builders account. The same person is not in the category to qualify for home ownership with other lending authorities unless his weekly wage . approximates $200. So, there is a gap. The person is ineligible under the housing finance legislation because he earns more than $140 a week but he does not qualify at the savings bank or the building society because his wage is not in the $200 a week bracket. Who is going to look after that person earning between $140 and $200 a week?' The Australian Housing Corporation is the body which will take care of that category of people. I claim that it is in this area that the major assistance by the Australian Housing Corporation will be given. It will encourage societies to be formed to meet this need besides becoming a lending authority itself. The Corporation will channel funds into terminating building societies which, in turn, can lend to individuals above the present cut-off limit at rates of interest above those presently charged by the terminating societies. It is true that in the Bill the rate of interest is not spelled out but the provision is made for this to happen. 
Surely it must be obvious to all honourable senators that a straight-forward means by which the Australian Housing Corporation can make housing finance available to people wishing to build or purchase a home of their own is through, co-operative building or housing societies. Need I this evening remind honourable senators that the terminating building or co-operative housing society movement is widely recognised as a very; efficient way of getting money but to intending, home owners? They have a relatively low level of administrative expenses. Their efficiency has been proved over many years of operation under agreements between the Australian Government and the State governments. Since the introduction of the home builders account, which was first established in 1 956, until the present time the total amount of advances that have been made to the home builders account is $666m. This year alone the Labor Government has allocated a record $ 127m for this purpose. Let "it be clear that any moneys made available by the Australian Housing Corporation would be completely separate and distinct from advances being made to State governments for disbursement through their home builders account. That is a very important factor. 
We in this chamber are all aware that traditionally terminating building and housing societies have obtained their finances from nongovernment sources such as savings banks, life assurance offices, superannuation funds and the like, as well as Australian Government and State housing agreement sources. However, in recent years due to the economic climate the supply of finance available from these non-government sources has tended to drop away. It is in this area also that the Australian Housing Corporation would be helping to supplement these loan rais:ings. I ask Opposition senators who profess to want everyone to be decently housed- we have heard them express profoundly in this chamber their belief in the Australian tradition that everyone should own a home of his own- how they benefit this cause by their opposition to this Bill or by their amendment to the Bill. that would make it unrecognisable. Has the Opposition examined the consequences of altering the main purposes of this legislation or, as it threatened to do when this legislation came before this chamber previously, of throwing it aside? 
The Minister, in his second reading speech, I felt adequately dealt with all the questions that were asked by  Senator Carrick.  I thought the Minister adequately and informatively told us all the matters about which  Senator Carrick  was asking. The Minister told us the functions of the Corporation and how it would be constituted. He did this, as I have said, adequately and in a mostinformative manner. Yet  Senator Carrick  stands here this evening and asks a series of questions. 
One of them was: Why on earth in this Bill is provision made only for the Commonwealth public servant and no provision is made for the State public servant? If  Senator Carrick  knew what is enshrined in the Constitution of Australia, had read it, studied, and understood it, he would not be asking that question. Sub-clause (3) of clause 6 df Part II of the Bill states: 
The Corporation may perform its functions to the extent only that they relate to matters with respect to which the Parliament has power to make laws and, in particular, may perform its functions- 
iri a Territory; 
b) for the purpose of the provision of housing for mem- - bers and former members of the Defence Force and for other persons who have participated in the defence of Australia; . . . 

 Senator Carrick conveniently did not read to the Senate paragraph (c) of sub-clause (3) because that would have stymied his case. Clause 3 (c) reads: 
 By way of, or as incidental to, the provision of family allowances. 
Clause 3 (e) states:   . . For the purpose of the provision of housing for the aboriginal people of Australia, immigrants to Australia, persons employed in or by Departments or authorities of Australia and persons engaged in work for Australia or an authority of Australia. 
There is none so blind as those who can see and do not want to see. That is the attitude that  Senator Carrick  adopted this evening. As a man trained and experienced in interpreting constitutions and studying regulations he knows as well as I and everybody else in this chamber knows that the reason that the Government could not specifically spell out the inclusion of the State public services is that the Constitution does not. provide for it, but it can be covered adequately by law or regulation under clause 3 (c) by way of, or as incidental to, the provision of family allowances'. 

 Senator Carrick said also that the Bill was obnoxious and that all that the Whitlam Government had ever done is to cripple the housing industry. He indicated that the previous Government had a proud record. However, it might be important to tell the Senate that the number of houses built since the Labor Party came to office is an all time record. That should be borne in mind. In the 7 quarters since December 1972, 262 000 dwellings have been built compared with 255 000 dwellings in the 7 quarters preceding the election of the Labor Government. Dwelling commencements in the same periods have been.287 000 compared with 260 000. So I do not know from where  Senator Carrick  got his claim. He stated also that one of the reasons the 
Bill was obnoxious was that the Corporation would take over the housing responsibilities from the States. I have already reminded him of the assurance given by the Minister for Housing and Construction in the other place and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in his second reading speech that the finance that will be made available through the Australian Housing Corporation is completely separate and distinct from that which will be made available to the States for housing commission purposes through the home builders legislation. Again, I should like to point out to  Senator Carrick  that the Australian Government sees the work of the State housing authorities and terminating building societies as being of cardinal importance in the creation of good living conditions for the neediest income strata of the community. That is why the Australian Government has increased allocations to the States for their housing authorities from $1 13m in 1972-73 to $23Om in 1974-75, and has increased the allocation to the home builders account, that is, for the 5% per cent home loans, from $77m in 1972-73 to $145m in 1974-75. Surely that is not the record of a government that is trying to whittle down the activities of the State housing authorities. On the other hand, this Government has given more encouragement to the States to enter into building arrangements for home owners by doubling the advances that have been made available to them. So much for the poppycock and humbug that was stated here this evening by  Senator Carrick.  The figures do not lie. They have been cited and they are readily available for him to see and to compare with the claims that he has been making this evening. 
I believe that this legislation is the most important in the housing area since the introduction of the home builders' accounts in 1956. I cannot help but think that it is impossible to over-rate the importance of this legislation. I have said that I believe that it is the most important legislation regarding housing since the home builders' accounts were introduced in 1956. It is certainly the first genuine attempt by any housing Minister to overcome the deposit gap, whether he be a State housing Minister or a Federal housing Minister. There has not been any previous attempt to overcome this deposit gap. For that reason I think this Bill is a credit to and a feather in the cap of the Federal Minister for Housing,  Mr Les  Johnson who, with his energy, his enterprise, his imagination and his industry, has seen fit to introduce this Bill which will cause him to be recognised as the best Minister for Housing that this Parliament has ever had, because he has genuinely attempted to overcome 2 grey areas in housing that no former Federal Minister nor any other State Minister has had the gumption to tackle. 
One in every five persons who purchases a home today takes out a second mortgage. Interest rates are usually very high. Many people would buy a home if they could get a second mortgage or an equivalent form of assistance at an interest rate that they could afford. How does this Bill help these people? It helps them by providing second mortgage funds either at interest rates geared to the repayment ability of the borrower or on a deferred repayment basis with or without a subsidy element, as necessary. It will provide funds to approved lenders for onlending to eligible persons as part of a first mortgage so that first mortgages could go to, say, 95 per cent of valuation. It will provide other means of bridging the deposit gap by financing the purchase of land on favourable terms. Then the borrower will use either the Australian Housing Corporation or conventional finance to build a dwelling. Land purchase could be made at reduced prices from land commissions or by using reduced interest rates or a deferred payment procedure. I believe that this measure that has been introduced to get rid of the deposit gap is the most worthwhile thing that has been done for the home-seeker in the history of federation. All honourable senators understand how people who are desirous of purchasing a home feel when the last $4,000 or $5,000 is impossible to obtain. They have no means of obtaining it except by a second mortgage. More often than not the interest rates are so prohibitive that people are prevented from taking out a second mortgage and as a result the prospective home buyer is unable to purchase his home. The Australian Housing Corporation will fill that gap for this type of people. If he achieves nothing else while he is the Federal Minister for Housing, if he is able successfully to do this through the Australian Housing Corporation, the present Minister for Housing will go on the record as the best Minister for Housing that this Parliament has ever seen. 
I think I have outlined a few of the examples of the uses to which the Australian Housing Corporation could be put. I believe the examples I have cited demonstrate that the Corporation will play a vital role in supplying essential finance for the well-being of the Australian population. I again compliment the Minister,  Mr Les  Johnson, for having introduced this measure. He has shown that he understands completely that everything that can be done must be done if we are to overcome the lag in the housing program. I submit, in conclusion, that it will be a sad day for home-seekers if the Opposition rejects this Bill or if its amendments remove important provisions of the Bill. I think it is the most progressive and worthwhile legislation in the housing area that has been introduced since 1 956 when the home builders' accounts system was introduced. I strongly and enthusiastically commend it to the Senate. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Health noticed a report that 6 Queensland doctors have joined the Australian Country Party? As their memberships are not likely to contribute anything to the cause of medicine, does the Minister see their joining as an indication of urgent medical attention for a sick party? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture. I remind him, by way of preamble, that locust plagues have pestered Queensland for some time, so my question concerns the proposed Australian Plague Locust Commission. Has the Commission been established and, if so, how soon will it become effective in the fight against locusts? 
in reply- I am a member of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System. I do not think that anything I am initiating in this chamber is in any way at variance with my work on that Committee. Of course, that is a matter of individual opinion.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack is entitled to his opinion, and 1 am entitled to mine. I would like to have been in the position to tell the Senate my observations of the deliberations of the Joint Committee regarding standing committees, but I would be out of order if I did so. I do not propose to do so. I ask the Senate to proceed to the vote and to carry this motion. If Senate manpower or parliamentary manpower is the chief item of concern in  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack 's proposition, I commend to the Senate the fact that the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control has been discharged. That means that there is one committee fewer. There were 8 members of that Committee. If this motion is carried, it will be replaced by a standing committee composed of 6 members. There will be the same number of committees but 2 members fewer. I earnestly ask the Senate to carry this motion this evening. I do not like being in public conflict with a colleague who is a member of the Joint Committee. I cannot see what the business of the Senate has to do with committee deliberations in another area. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
1 ) A Standing Committee be appointed, to be called the Standing Committee on National Development and Ownership and Control of Australian Resources, with power to inquire into and report upon such matters as are referred to it by the Senate from time to time. 
The Committee have power to consider the Minutes of Evidence and records of the Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control appointed in previous Sessions. 
The Committee consist of six Senators, three being members of the Government Party, to be nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, and three being Senators who are not members of the Government Party, two to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate and one by the Leader of the Australian Country Party in the Senate. 
The Committee elect a Government member as Chairman. 
The  Chairman  may from time to time appoint a member of the Committee to be Deputy-Chairman and the member so appointed shall act as  Chairman  of the Committee at any time when there is no  Chairman  or the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the Committee. 
In the event of an equality of voting, the  Chairman,  or the Deputy-Chairman when acting as  Chairman,  shall have a casting vote. 
The quorum of the Committee be three. 
A  Senator, though  not a member of the Standing Committee, may participate in its public sessions and question witnesses, unless the Committee orders otherwise, but shall not vote. 
The Committee shall have power to appoint subcommittees, consisting of three or more of its members, and to refer to any such sub-committee any of the matters which the Committee is empowered to consider. The quorum of a sub-committee shall be a majority of the members appointed. 
10) The Committee or any sub-committee have power to send Ibr and examine persons, papers and records, to move from place to place, and to meet and transact business in public or private session and notwithstanding any prorogation of the Parliament or dissolution of the House of Representatives. 
Members of the public and representatives of the news media may attend and report any public session of the Committee, unless the Committee otherwise orders. 
12) The Committee be empowered to print from day to day such papers and evidence as may be ordered by it. A daily Hansard shall be published of such proceedings of the Committee as take place in public. 
The Committee be provided with all necessary staff, facilities and resources and be empowered to appoint persons with specialist knowledge for the purposes of the Committee, with the approval of the  President. 
The Committee have leave to report from time to time its proceedings and the evidence taken and such recommendations as it may deem fit, and is expected to make regular reports as to the progress of the proceedings of the Committee. 
The foregoing provisions of this Resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the Standing Orders, shall have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
The purpose of this motion is to establish a standing committee, to be called the Standing Committee on National Development and Ownership and Control of Australian Resources. This Committee is intended to replace the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control which was discharged in March 1975. So that the Senate will fully appreciate the reasons for the change, I believe it is necessary to give a brief history of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control and its activities because, when the motion for its discharge was put down in the Senate in March 1975, it was done formally and without debate. The Committee was established in December 1 97 1 when capital inflow issues, particularly direct previous investment in manufacturing, mining, finance, property and commerce, and a sudden build-up in portfolio investment and foreign takeovers, were of particular concern. The Committee's terms of reference were very broad, and the Committee itself adopted a very broad industry approach in order to establish certain points and objectives. 
It planned to establish the actual extent of foreign ownership and control in all sectors of the Australian economy. It also planned to establish the pattern by which it occurred. It also planned to establish the different forms that it had taken. The Committee considered that information in respect of these areas was necessary in order for the Committee to be able to report on whether foreign ownership and control was prejudicial and /or excessive, a task which all senators will admit was a mammoth task and one which required a never ending inquiry because of the comprehensive nature of the terms of reference. So it was not surprising that the history of the Committee was such that its progress was seriously impeded by a lack of quantitative information relating to the composition of capital inflow and a complete lack of information relating to the purposes for which capital entered Australia. 
To give some idea of the magnitude of the task, I shall cite an example. If the Committee had elected to conduct an inquiry into the ownership of land in Australia, and if that inquiry was to be carried out by the Committee in accordance with its terms of reference, as it had the power to do, more than one million titles to land in Australia alone would have had to be investigated. However, despite this the original Committee, chaired by  Senator Withers,  the present Leader of the Opposition, did useful and valuable work and presented a report in October 1 972 containing nine very important recommendations. After the House of Representatives election in December 1972 the reconstituted Committee found itself operating in a completely different situation. The open-door policy no longer existed, and eight out of the nine recommendations of the Committee already had been implemented. The only one that is still awaiting implementation relates to the establishment of a mortgage bank. 
Action taken by the then Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  for the establishment of departmental committees to control foreign ownership, plus the fact that there is an extension of the committees in the legislation that had been introduced by the McMahon Government, coupled with a new resources policy, meant that the work of the Committee had been superseded. This was commented on in the Committee's second report, tabled in the Senate in December 1974. As the contents of that report are incorporated in Hansard I do not wish to delay the Senate this evening by again relating the points made. The completely different situation faced by the Committee, together with the further changes currently being implemented or foreshadowed by the Government, led to the Committee's final report which was tabled in the Senate in 1 975. In that report the Committee stated that it could no longer conduct a worthwhile inquiry along the lines originally envisaged when the Committee was established. I believe it is fair to say that the second Committee nevertheless did useful and valuable work. Its contribution to the Australian Industry Development Corporation and the National Investment Fund Bill was praiseworthy. 
I would like to place on record the contributions of the various Chairmen-  Senator Withers  and  Senator Cant-  and the Committee members. Without really wanting to individualise, I seek the permission of the Senate to make particular mention of former  Senator Hartley  Cant who brought to the Committee a wealth of knowledge, experience and distinguished service. 
If this motion is carried by the Senate, the Standing Committee on National Development and Ownership and Control of Australian Resources will have the power to inquire into and report on such matters as are referred to it from time to time. The motion also empowers the Committee to consider the minutes, evidence and records of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control appointed in previous sessions. This means that the valuable research work carried out by the former Committee will not be lost to the Senate, the Parliament or the nation. If this motion is carried, provision will be made for the new Committee to call upon the records, minutes, submissions and research .carried out by the previous Committee. 
A separate standing committee is proposed in this motion as foreign ownership issues do not fit naturally into the existing framework of Senate committees. There is an overlap with the Standing Committee on Industry and Trade, the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations and the Standing Committee on Social Environment. Besides, it is proposed that the number of senators on this Committee be six- a reduction of two from the number on the previous Select Committee. Honourable senators will appreciate that the call on the manpower of senators is ever-increasing, and reducing the number from eight, the number on the old Committee, to six for the proposed Committee will allow senators to be available for work on other committees. 
In summarising I would like to say, firstly, that the terms of reference of the old Committee, the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control, were too broad; they were too comprehensive in their nature. Secondly, the inquiries of the Committee, by the nature of its terms of reference, were lengthy and often were superseded by changes in government policy or foreshadowed changes in government policy. The changing personnel on the Committee and the comprehensive nature of the terms of reference resulted in a reluctance on the part of new Committee members to bring down recommendations on evidence that they had not heard or when they had not appreciated the climate in which the submissions had been made. On the other hand, if this motion is passed, the new Committee will be smaller and will conserve Senate manpower. It will be able to deal with specific references in accoradnce with a time limit for reporting to the Senate. It will be able to cover the same area of inquiry as that covered by the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control. It will be able to engage in specialist work such as, to give some examples, the operating criteria of multinational corporations or an examination of developmental projects involving the use of our natural resources. It could conduct an inquiry to ensure that controls and procedures are sufficiently flexible to ensure that no genuine or desirable investment is lost to Australia. In conclusion, I believe that the motion, if carried, will pave the way for the Committee to inquire into matters relative to foreign ownership and control of Australia's resources more thoroughly, in greater depth and more expeditiously. The whole arrangement will be much tidier than previously. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation and, whilst it might sound a bit foxy, it certainly is not a Dorothy Dixer. Has the Australian Government provided substantial support to the insurance industry and if so in what form? Can the Minister tell the Senate the cost of this support to the Government? 
-Yesterday I addressed a question to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation asking whether the Australian Government has provided substantial support to the insurance industry and, if so, in what form. I also asked the Minister whether he would tell the Senate the cost of the support. In response, the Minister said that he would like to make a detailed statement on the matter. I now ask the Minister whether he can supply this information to the Senate. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. The Minister recently told the Senate that claims were being taken from people who had suffered loss or damage to property during cyclone Tracy. Have compensation claims for injury and death been taken out yet, and what arrangements are being made to provide this compensation? 
Can the PostmasterGeneral give the Senate any indication of when push-button telephones will be introduced and will be available to telephone subscribers in Australia? 
I address my question to the Minister for the Media. Is he aware that last week in a current affairs radio program on radio station 2GB it was mentioned that the Australian Broadcasting Commission did not engage in the purchasing of programs from Australian film production companies and that, despite this matter having been raised with the Minister for the Media, no change had taken place in the policy adopted by the Australian Broadcasting Commission? Can the Minister say whether this is so? If it is not, what is the actual position? 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General whether he has seen a report that  Mr R.  A. Turner, a former State manager of the National Bank of Australasia Ltd and a director of the Millaquin Sugar Company Ltd, will receive $30,000 and a seat on the board of the Bundaberg Sugar Company Ltd should the latter 's take-over bid for Millaquin be successful. Is this practice of offering sweeteners as inducements to directors, and their acceptance of them, an abuse of their office and one appropriate for investigation by the Department of the Attorney-General? 
-I bring up the report of Estimates Committee C relating to the particulars of proposed additional expenditure for the year 1974-75. together with the Hansard record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Repatriation and 
Compensation. I ask: Is it a fact that the Minister has discovered links between the National Country Party of Australia and the Australian Mutual Provident Society? 
-Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware that the National Country Party has agreed in principle to the recommendations of the Woodward Commission on Aboriginal Land Rights? Is he also aware that the Premier of Queensland, the Honourable Joh Bjelke-Petersen, has refused to accept the policy of the National Country Party in that he will not agree to hand over control of 16 Aboriginal land reserves in Queensland to the Aborigines residing upon them? 
-As Chairman of the Joint Committee on Public Accounts,  I  present the one hundred and fiftythird report of the Public Accounts Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 Senator MCAULIFFE (Queensland)-Mr  President,  on behalf of the Committee,  I  seek leave to have a short statement incorporated in Hansard. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, follows a question I asked the Minister last Thursday about Aboriginal land rights in Queensland. At the time the Minister indicated that the Premier of Queensland might have relaxed his attitude to the land rights question because the Premier's Party had endorsed the report of the Woodward Commission on Aboriginal Land Rights. I now ask the Minister: Has he taken any steps to ascertain whether the approach of the Queensland Premier and the Queensland Government to the question of granting land rights to Aboriginals in Queensland has changed? 
I shared the honour with former  Senator Lawrie  Wilkinson, on behalf of a group of Australian Labor Party senators and members, of having made a written submission to the Commission of Inquiry established in February 1973 to carry out a comprehensive investigation of the Postmaster-General's Department. I also had the honour to give evidence to that Commission. Today I naturally am more than satisfied to see that a majority of the proposals and suggestions in our submission were the subject of major recommendations by the Commission of Inquiry and that those major recommendations have been accepted by the Government and are contained in the Bills currently being debated in the Senate. 
I must say, however, that I have one disappointment and that is that the Commission of Inquiry recommended that the name 'Australian Post Office ', something that has been part of our national heritage, something that has played a part in our daily lives and is a familiar billboard around the country, is going to disappear. If the Commission of Inquiry considered that the word Commission' should be added to the name in order to identify or distinguish the new type of organisation that was to be established, it might have been more advisable if it had called it the Australian Post Office Commission instead of the Australian Postal Commission. 
The Commission of Inquiry was set up in the wake of one of the most lengthy and confused debates that has ever taken place in the Senate on any single subject. I refer to the debate on the Post and Telegraph Rates Bills which commenced in this chamber in May 1967 and concluded on 28 May 1968 after being discussed in various forms. During that period the Senate saw the rejection on 2 occasions of Bills that sought an increase of 5 per cent in tariff for the Post Office. Also in that period we saw the unprecedented step of the Senate being recalled, on 20 June, during its recess to deliberate on certain matters. At that historic meeting the then  Senator Murphy  gave notice of motion in an endeavour to block the Government's intention of bringing in the tariff increases by regulation. During this same period something of more importance took place, something that probably could be associated with the circumstances of today. I refer to the fact that the late  Senator Cohen,  then  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in this place, attempted on 8 May 1968 to have set up a joint committee to inquire into the Post Office and the establishment of a public corporation to conduct the business of the Post Office. Honourable senators who would like to blow the cobwebs off the Hansards of that time will find that the vote was tied 28-all, and it was therefore resolved in the negative. But I believe that the question which is  now before us and which should be asked of the Opposition is whether these Bills will be passed, and passed in such a way that they will be recognisable and enable the intentions of the Commission to be carried out. 
On many occasions in the past the Opposition has agreed in principle that something should be done about the Post Office, and that is very good indeed, but it has constantly resisted any attempt to do anything about improving these conditions. The Opposition has used every pretext and pretence to stall anything that could be done about it. It has a history of doing that, and I felt that I could sense in the attitude of the Opposition spokesman on postal matters,  Senator Durack,  something of the same attitude today. He is reluctantly agreeing to the recommendations of the Commission. On the other hand,  Mr Whitlam,  before becoming Prime Minister, promised that an inquiry would be held into the Post Office at the first possible moment. He instituted an inquiry under the chairmanship of  Sir James  Vernon, and surely the Opposition would not claim that  Sir James  is one of  Mr Whitlam  's boys. On the contrary, he earned for himself a great reputation in public affairs because of the inquiries he conducted at the request of Prime Minister Menzies and a succession of Liberal Party governments. Well do we know the fate of the famous Vernon report on economic affairs that exposed many inadequacies of the government of the time. It was pigeon-holed, and nothing was done about it. 
It is to the Prime Minister's credit also that he said he would have an inquiry. He has had one, and it was headed by an independent, internationally renowned economist who, through his experience and through chairing inquiries into public matters, could possibly have earned for himself the title of the quintessence of authority on these matters. Again, it is to the Prime Minister's credit that the Bills before us today are virtually the unchanged recommendations of the Commission. That is in sharp contrast with what happened to the last Vernon report that was requested by the Liberal-Country Party Government. 
The Commission had a huge task to do. One of its major tasks was to identify the problems and then supply the solutions to them. Apart from  Sir James  Vernon, the other members of the Commission were  Mr B.  J. Callinan, an engineer who is also a Commissioner of the Victorian State Electricity Commission, and  Mr J.  J. Kennedy, a chartered accountant and successful company director. Possibly the Senate will pardon me for saying that  Mr Kennedy  had the best credentials, because he was a good Queenslander. 
What does the Opposition want? Will it accept these Bills, which follow the recommendations of the Commission, without emasculating them in some way or another? Does it want another commission of inquiry? If it had another inquiry, would it pigeon-hole the report, as it did with the other Vernon report that it got? It might be pertinent at this juncture to examine what the Commissioners found in their inquiry. Among other things, they found that, if the Post Office continued to be run in the way in which it was being run, mounting up huge losses, and the people who used telephones having to subsidise the losses, there was no future for it. They also discovered that there had been no increase in tariffs in an election year until Labor came to office, despite the fact that increases were long overdue, justified and urgently required. I leave it to the imagination of honourable senators why the Liberal-Country Party governments never had an increase in tariffs in an election year. Instead, the present Opposition, which was in government for more than 23 years, created the circumstances in which the Post Office finds itself today. It made the Post Office a subsidised service, and it has to answer for it. It is a true case of nationalisation or socialisation at its best or its worst, whatever way one likes to look at it. It is a case of the taxpayers subsidising postal users through that policy. That is putting it in a nutshell, yet we hear honourable senators opposite becoming alarmed and indignant when this Government is proposing schemes to subsidise health services. They think it is all right to subsidise the Post Office but it is not all right to subsidise health services. 
In this subsidy arrangement that they followed for more than 23 years perhaps the most despicable aspect of all is that, of the postal users in this country, 75 per cent are big businesses, which are getting a tax deduction in any case. But that was the policy of subsidy; it was directed at subsidising big business in this country. I have said before in debates on postal services appropriations and I say again that the simple solution to Post Office difficulties lies in the principle, which applies in any business, that those who require or use a service must be prepared to pay for it. For example, the chap who purchases and runs a luxury limousine knows that he has to pay for the extra petrol that he uses. The same principle applies to the chap who enjoys travelling long distances in a motor car. He knows that he has to foot the bill for the extra petrol used in travelling those long distances. I submit that the situation is no different with a government business; those who use the service should be called upon to pay for it. 
In its inquiry the Commission also found that, under previous governments, telecommunication profits were used to cover up postal losses and that that was the method of accountancy that has been used under the guidance of the Opposition when it was in government. Millions of dollars were used as subsidies to prop up country interest. Graziers were paying lower rentals for their telephones than age pensioners in the cities were paying. How could anyone with a spark of humanitarianism or any concern for the public interest say that the instances I have cited were in the public interest? Talking about public interest brings us to the stage where we should reflect on just what were the terms of reference given to this commission of inquiry. The first term of reference of the Commission, which was established on 22 February 1973, was this: 
In the public interest, what changes, if any, should be made in the organisation, administration and operations of postal and telecommunications services (including overseas services) provided in Australia, including . . . changes in relation to - 
Then follow 8 detailed items which, with the permission of the Senate, I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard. They are part of the terms of reference of the Commission of Inquiry. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The items read as follows)-  the range of services to the public and their adequacy to meet present and future needs, including services as affected by proposals approved but not yet implemented; the financing of recurrent and capital costs; management staff relations, including the jurisdiction of the Public Service Board; responsibilities of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission and the division of functions between that Commission and the Postmaster-General 's Department; urban and regional development; procurement of supplies with the aim of developing Australian industries; the performance of work by contract; and other matters to which the attention of the Commission is particularly directed by the Postmaster-General in the course of the inquiry. 
-So much for that. I would now like to direct my attention to matters that were discovered by the Commission in relation to staff, and management and staff relations. The way in which previous Liberal-Country Party governments have allowed the staff of the Post Office to be pulled down by the Press and the media has been nothing less than cruel and callous. They have allowed a fine service to be destroyed. No one could deny that the morale of the Post Office at the time was very low. As soon as anything went wrong in the Post Office or as soon as there were headlines in the newspapers about some disruption to postal services, honourable senators opposite would rise in their places and make vitriolic and vicious attacks on the employees of the Post Office. In sharp contrast to that, I can recall that at one time the postmaster in a provincial town would be included amongst those members of the community who were considered to have some status. There would be the magistrate, the school headmaster, the bank manager, the school teacher and the police sergeant, and the postmaster would be included with them. But due to neglect of the services in the Post Office and due to the fact that nothing has been done to improve the amenities or the incentives for the staff of the Post Office, we sadly have seen the status of the postmaster in these country towns downgraded. 
I believe the Post Office staff to be efficient, courteous and capable of giving a fine service if given the initiatives. I have had personal experience with them. The Opposition, when in government, killed those initiatives and incentives by its failure to do anything about postal services. What chance did this band of loyal employees have? They had the Public Service breathing down one side of their neck and the Treasury breathing down the other side of their neck. The Commission has found that the skills required of a man to run a modern, competitive public enterprise such as the Post Office are entirely different from those required of him to be a public servant. The Commission also discovered that constraints were imposed on the Post Office by its being subject to the Public Service Board and its relativities. These were things that the Commission found in its examination. The Commission found that this has been the main reason and the main cause for public dissatisfaction with the Post Office. It was the system, not the employees, that beat the postal services. Yet Opposition senators would claim that it was the employees and not the system. Even as late as today  Senator Durack  has said that he wants to continue the old style of system but under another name- the Australian Postal Commission. 
When it is established the Commission will change the system dramatically, and the changes that will be effected are outlined in its report. In this significant debate on the postal services I take this opportunity to congratulate the band of workers who have carried out their work in the Post Office under great difficulty. They have nothing to be ashamed of. The Vernon Commission said that they had done a good job. As I was saying before, there is a vast difference between administration and management, and those points were dramatically brought out in the Commission's findings. The Public Service administrates. The Commission also found that for the Post Office to work efficiently it has to have unfettered management, free of politicians and free of political or other motives except to supply a superb postal service. It is very easy for the critics to pose as defenders of cheap Post Office services when they are not called upon to implement the management decisions that such policies require. 
I now turn to the dilemma facing the services of the Post Office which was highlighted in the Commission's report. The Post Office is often criticised unfairly for being inefficient. I have heard such attacks on the Post Office being made by honourable senators opposite who have said that the Post Office is inefficient and that all it needs to turn a loss into a profit is the introduction of business efficiency. One of the questions asked of the departmental officers by the  chairman  of the Commission of Inquiry,  Sir James  Vernon- this appears in the transcript of evidence- was this: 
If the Post Office was able to be managed 100 per cent efficiently and was able to sack redundant staff and run it on business lines, how much would the Post Office save a year? 
The experienced departmental officers replied: 
Between $ 1 Om and $ 1 5 m a year. 
So, if this 100 per cent efficiency which is so strongly advocated by Opposition senators was obtained, the saving to the Post Office would be between $10m and $15m a year. Expressed in another way, it would mean a reduction of half a cent in the cost of each item posted- certainly a big deal from the point of view of the Opposition. We on this side of the chamber realise that the Commission can never be regarded as being the saviour of the Post Office. All it will be able to do is what the Commission of Inquiry did, namely, identify the problems, separate them, and try to solve them. If the Post Office is to be successful, the hard, cold fact is that the Post Office has to stand on its own feet like any other successful business enterprise has to do. Attitudes have to be changed. A policy whereby the user pays for the service has to be introduced. Only in that way can it function in the public interest, and it was the intention of acting in the public interest that the Commission of Inquiry was set up. I claim that nothing has demoralised the Post Office more than the policy of subsidisation created by previous Liberal-Country Party governments. That method of running the Post Office is not desirable, has been unsuccessful, kills all incentive and demoralises. That has been found out not just by the Vernon Commission of Inquiry in Australia. In 1968 the President's Commission on Postal Organisations in the United States of America expressed this opinion: 
Experience indicates that the corporate form of organisation is peculiarly adapted to the administration of governmental programs which are predominantly of a commercial character- those which are revenue producing, are at least potentially self-sustaining, and involve a large number of business-type transactions with the public. 
In their business operations such programs require greater flexibility than the customary type of appropriation budget ordinarily permits. As a rule the usefulness of a corporation lies in its ability to deal with the public in the manner employed by private business for similar work. 
The description exactly fits the postal service. We have concluded that a Government corporation can be a vehicle permitting highly effective management for the Post Office. The purposes of the organisation should be spelled out in the Congressional charter and its day-to-day operations conducted by a professional management held responsible for results. 
We recommend that a Postal Corporation owned entirely by the Federal Government be chartered by Congress to operate the postal service of the United States on a selfsupporting basis. 
As if that was not enough, in 1967 a similar inquiry conducted in the United Kingdom by a House of Commons Select Committee on Nationalised Industries reported as follows: 
Your committee suggest three ways in which this policy of allowing the postal services to run into deficit may have harmed the Post Office. First, the accumulated deficit on the postal services amounted in August 1966 to nearly £30m. This increased the borrowing requirements for the postal service, and so interest charges and the need for further revenues. Secondly, there is always a danger that allowing a service to run at a loss may discourage enterprise and imagination on the part of the management. If a service is not required, or permitted, to pay its way, the stimulus to commercial efficiency may easily be weakened. In addition the fact that a service is regularly making a loss may have a depressing effect on management and staff alike. Lastly, despite the success of the telecommunications service in more than paying its way in these years, the heavy deficit on the postal service resulted in the Post Office as a whole failing to achieve their financial objective. 
That is the position in the United States of America and in the United Kingdom. Those countries have benefited from the experience and have corrected the idea that a subsidised Post Office cannot be successful. Of course,  Mr Acting President,  all of us realise the importance of the Post Office to the community. No other government instrumentality is unique, as the Post Office is. It has on the one hand, a monopoly to deliver mails throughout the country, yet on the other hand it has to compete in a wide variety of services. It has money orders to contend with. It is in competition with banks and in the transfer of money. It has a parcel and courier delivery service. 
The trouble in the past has been that these services have been regarded as a right, not as a cost. Possibly this false idea originated with the introduction of the 'penny postage' complex, which was recognised internationally. The penny postage was a famous thing to talk about, but let us be honest and fair to ourselves. If this penny postage complex was allowed to continue, the charge that would be applicable today would be $ 1 . That would be the correct charge today if the penny postage complex, which senators opposite followed so religiously for 23 years, was put in its true perspective. 
What  Senator Durack  said during his speech was true. The Post Office was regarded perhaps much more as a service before telephones and speedy transport came into existence. It was more essential then and it helped to develop this nation. I do not think any senator in this chamber has any argument with that contention, but that is not the position today. Senators are talking about the horse and buggy days, and that is the type of thinking they are trying to introduce into this Bill. They have not become modern and have not lifted themselves to present day conditions. Claims by senators opposite about things that applied in the days before rapid transport and telephone facilities may be correct, but they do not apply today. 
There is no alternative but to conduct the Post Office on a commercial basis, and not necessarily on a profit-making basis. I should like those who criticise the Post Office to think of the comparison that I shall make. If a person wants to send a priority letter by Ansett from say, Brisbane to Melbourne, the charge is about $3, yet the Post Office, which still has to transport the letter from the post office or pillar box, put it on a plane, and then arrange delivery at the other end, is entitled to charge only 10c. Where is the fairness in this argument? Ansett can get $3 for a mail delivery, but the people's delivery service, the Post Office, is entitled to charge only 10c. 
If a person wanted to transfer his furniture from Canberra to Cooma, there would be a freight charge, a particular charge, for that removal. If he was going to transport his furniture from Canberra to Cairns, another charge would operate, yet senators opposite say: 'Let the Post Office charge the same tariff throughout the length and breadth of this country, irrespective of what distances the undertaking for service covers'. We all know that there is a world recession and a resources problem at present. Prices are increasing and if they are not allowed to increase, service will be reduced. I have heard Opposition senators advocate this theory, so I am taking it on board today. The Post Office is a labour-intensive industry, so if inflation is going to run at 20 per cent and labour costs must increase, so must the prices of the commodities or services that the Post Office offers. No one acting decently can seek political capital by dodging his responsibility and making the service pay for itself. 
Before I conclude my speech, I should like to deal with the question of interest charges. I know that this is a controversial issue as far as the Post Office is concerned, but I believe that money has a cost. If the Australian taxpayer is lending money to the postal services and interest is not paid, the Post Office is subsidising the users of the service, and surely we have pointed out clearly this afternoon in this debate that turning the Post Office into a subsidised service has been its undoing. 
Senators opposite, when in Government, created the circumstances in which there was a subsidised service. That killed incentive and the will to act in a commercial way. To summarise,  Mr Acting President,  I say that the commission promised by the Prime Minister before he became Prime Minister has been held. The Commission comprised men of reputation in their particular areas, and as I have said, the  chairman  is an internationally renowned economist,  Sir James  Vernon. Members of the Commission have made major recommendations after enlisting the best consultative advice that the world could offer and after visiting other countries to see how the postal services operated there. 
The Government has accepted the Vernon Commission's recommendations, and those recommendations completely change the attitude of the Post Office. The winds of change are blowing. We have the benefit of the United Kingdom and the United States experience and I believe that if we are allowed to enter into the spirit of what is spelt out in the Vernon Commission's report, hundreds of millions of dollars will accrue to the postal services and will transform it into a viable commercial proposition of which we in Australia will be proud. 
The Postmaster-General, at the introduction of the debate, accepted the suggestion that the Bills would be debated cognately. I have only one or two very brief observations to make regarding the Australian Telecommunications Commission and the suggestion of the Opposition that the Overseas Telecommunications Commission should not be merged into the Telecommunications Commission. I heard  Senator Durack  ask the question: Why on earth should we disturb the OTC? He said that it is a nice compact little organisation employing only 2000 people and yet it produces a very healthy balance sheet. Why on earth should not the OTC produce a healthy balance sheet? Even if it was in the control of honourable senators opposite it would still produce a good balance sheet because it is in a very preferred position. Honourable senators know that the OTC looks after international communications. Yet the Australian Post Office, which supplies the telephones, the wiring, the switching gear, the cables and everything that makes an overseas call possible, gets a mere 33c from the OTC for each call. It is unbelievable. I nearly fell off my chair when I read that the only recompense which the Australian Post Office receives from OTC for initiating a call throughout Australia was 33c. 
I am not a member of the Australian Telecommunications Commission, but I know the calibre of the men appointed to it. I know that they will be worth their salt. One of the first things that they will be doing will be to look at the charge that is levied on the OTC. Even if it were trebled I imagine it would still be a very light touch on the OTC. 
Honourable senators opposite are opposing the OTC being included in the Australian Telecommunications Commission. I know it is very unhealthy to try to prophesy events but I make this prophecy: If the correct charges are made on the OTC for the services that are supplied at present by the Post Office in Australia for international telephone hook-ups, the people who will be showing a very healthy profit- honourable senators opposite will be congratulating them as an enterprising and successful operation- will be the Australian Telecommunications Commission, and the one whose balance sheet will take a downward trend will be the OTC. I am wondering, if honourable senators opposite are then still about, who they will blame for this change of financial position. I cannot see the merit in the advocacy of honourable senators opposite who want to isolate the OTC from the Australian Telecommunications Commission. They say this should be done because it is a viable proposition. 
I ask honourable senators opposite to think over the claim I have made this afternoon that only 33c is being paid to the Post Office for the use of its services. Perhaps they feel that is reasonable. If they do not, and they see a reasonable service in 2 years time, will they still be telling us what a marvellous business enterprise the 
OTC is? One of the things  Senator Durack  said during his speech was that he agreed with the Commission  Chairman.  He said that  Sir James  Vernon expressed the view that the OTC should be kept separate from the Australian Telecommunications Commission.  Senator Durack  said that he shared that view. He did not say anything about the views that the  Chairman  expressed on all these other matters. It is obvious that if  Senator Durack  had had his way and if by chance, the  Chairman  had brought in a minority report nothing probably would have been done about the Austraiian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission. 

 Senator Durack also referred to  Mr Gibbs,  who was the  Chairman  of the OTC.  Mr Gibbs  said that it was a good thing that the OTC be merged into the Australian Telecommunications Commission. He made the point that it was not the view expressed by the other OTC members.  Senator Durack  expressed the opinion of  Sir James  Vernon on this matter but omitted to tell the Senate that the other 2 members of the Commission of Inquiry were in favour of the OTC being included in the Australian Telecommunications Commission. I ask the honourable senator to be fair when he is quoting. He was quoting a minority report, in the case of  Mr Gibbs,  to his advantage but he did not give the Senate the benefit of the facts that two out of the 3 Commissioners were in favour of the OTC being merged into the Australian Telecommunications Commission. Let me conclude by using a peroration in an extract from the journal of the 'United Postal Union', a body that works in close conjunction with the Postal Bureau and the United Nations in developing postal services in developing countries. The extract from the journal reads: 
There could be no more fitting end to this account of one hundred years of international postal co-operation than the following quotation from the first edition of the memorandum referred to earlier 
Few people in the world are unaware nowadays of the existence of the Post. However, it is only when its services suddenly become unavailable that its full significance is realised. 
However efficiently it is run, however great and varied the needs it is called upon to meet, the Post is so deeply rooted in the habits of people that the action of sending or receiving mail is all but automatic. As an institution at the service of everyone the Post gradually comes to appear as a natural extension of each individual's activity. As people are not constantly reminded of its presence, as they are reminded, for example, of roads and railways because those achievements are tangible, it is taken for granted. 
As a result, the public is inclined to take little interest in- or at least to be unaware of- the problems involved in ensuring the flow of postal traffic. For most people, the circulation of mail is like the presence of oxygen in the air, and it is only when it stops that they realise how essential it is to life. 
Without pursuing the analogy further, it is nevertheless clear that the post must be able to make its services available, without restrictions, to every individual and group so that all, each in his own way and according to his needs, may take part in the general flow of communications and exchanges which is one of the vital currents of our times and a tangible proof of the social, political, cultural and economic development of human societies. ' 
In that spirit I commend the Bills before the Senate and hope that they will have a speedy passage through the chamber and be carried enthusiastically. 

 - Senator Durack, you have not moved your original amendment. Would you like to follow the same procedure as you did last time and move the amendments proposed by  Senator Bishop  as the new clause 7? 
Leave out the clause, insert the following clauses: 7.(1) The Commission shall perform its functions in such a manner as will best meet the social, industrial and commercial needs of the Australian people for telecommunications services and shall, so far as it is, in its opinion, reasonably practicable to do so, make its telecommunications services available throughout Australia for all people who reasonably require those services. 
In performing its functions in accordance with subsection ( 1 ), the Commission- 
shall comply with any directions given to it under section 7a; and 
shall have regard to- 
the desirability of improving and extending its telecommunications services in the light of developments in the field of communications; 
the need to operate its services as efficiently and economically as practicable; and 
the special needs for telecommunications services of Australian people who reside or carry on business outside the cities. 
Nothing in this section shall be taken- 
to prevent the Commission from interrupting, suspending or restricting, in the case of emergency, a service provided by it, 
to impose on the Commission a duty that is enforceable by proceedings in a court. 
It is the duty of the Commission, in performing its functions, to comply with the provisions of any Convention to the extent that it imposes obligations on Australia in relation to matters within the functions of the Commission. 7a. (1) The Minister may, after consultation with the Commission, give to the Commission, in writing, such directions, with respect to the performance of its functions and the exercise of its powers, as appear to the Minister to be necessary in the public interest. 
Where the Minister gives a direction to the Commission under sub-section (1), the Minister shall cause a copy of the direction to be laid before each House of the Parliament within 1 5 sitting days after the direction is so given. 
Sub-section (1) does not authorize the Minister to give a direction with respect to rentals or charges referred to in section 11.'. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
New clause 7A agreed to. 
Clause 8 to 10- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 1 1. 
1 ) The Commission may, from time to time, make, with the approval of the Minister, determinations fixing or varying 
the rentals payable in respect of standard telephone services provided by the Commission; 
the charges for telephone calls made from a place within Australia or a prescribed external Territory by means of the telephone system controlled by the Commission, other than charges for special services provided by the Commission in connexion with those calls; and 
the charges for the transmission of telegrams that are lodged at telegraph offices otherwise than by means of a telecommunications service provided by the Commission. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development say why Queensland did not share in the $ 165m allocated to 4 States for urban projects, as announced by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development yesterday? 
It is obvious to me that the Opposition is playing politics in this matter, and from its point of view it is probably regarded as good politics. That is what it is here for and it is entitled to adopt those attitudes. But it reminds me of the chap attending the annual meeting of his sporting organisation who wants to make some impact on the audience because he is aspiring to be appointed to an office in the club. He continually attacks, line by line, the balance sheet. Of course, anyone who has had any experience in these organisations knows that, no matter how well prepared and presented the balance sheet is, one can always get up and ask a question that can create some innuendo and doubt. 
That is all that the Opposition has been doing. It has tried to make out that the Government is acting unconstitutionally and that it is not acting within the framework of the Audit Act. That is so much rot because the Government is following the same procedures and is receiving the same advice from the Treasury as the previous Government received. It is working within the same Treasury directions as did the previous government. So I think it is about time that we stopped pussy-footing around and placed on the record just what are the procedures required of any government, whether it is a Labor government or an anti-Labor government, and what is required of the Party which is occupying the 
Treasury benches. So for the record I would like to say that long ago Parliament recognised that a new measure was necessary to provide funds for needs not covered by existing appropriations. Yet that measure had to conform with the requirements of the Audit Act. That was done under a heading which is now known as Advance to the Treasurer. 
-Apparently the Opposition had forgotten it. From the way that it has been acting in this Parliament in relation to these Supply Bills, apparently it has forgotten the procedures, and it might be a good thing to remind it of them again. The legislation clearly spelt out the kinds of uses for which the Advance to the Treasurer may be put, and the definitions of those uses in relation to the Supply Bills which we are now discussing are exactly the same as those which applied in comparable legislation in previous years when those who are now attacking them occupied the Treasury bench. 
I am coming to that. As I said earlier, the same advice from the Treasury is available to this Government as was available to Liberal-Country Party governments, and the same Treasury directions apply under the Audit Act. So why would we be less responsible than our predecessors? One may well ask at this stage for what purposes moneys are available under Advance to the Treasurer. These are clearly laid out under 3 main avenues: Firstly, pending the passing of an Appropriation Act to meet expenditure which was not covered by an appropriation, the particulars of which will afterwards be submitted to the Parliament as they cannot be submitted to the Parliament at any other time than afterwards; secondly, pending the issue of a Governor-General's warrant for moneys already appropriated by Parliament; and, thirdly, to make an advance which will be recovered within the financial year. The legislation also says that approvals will be given only in urgent or special circumstances. In other words, these circumstances or requirements might arise- and the 'might' is spelt in big capital letters. All governments, irrespective of their political persuasion- as I said, whether they are Labor or anti-Labor- have operated along these lines ever since the first days of Federation. So, where is there any substance in the indecent spectacle of the Opposition claiming that the Government is being deceitful or wishes to hide something? 
Of course the Opposition has the right to ask these questions and to inquire why the amounts in the Advance to the Treasurer in the Supply Bill in each case have been increased from $60m in 1974-75 to $120m in 1975-76.I consider that the Leader of the Government in the Senate, when he made his statement, answered these questions adequately. The answers honourable senators have sought from the Leader of the Government have been forthcoming. I think he explained the matter clearly to honourable senators when he told them that the total of Supply Bill (No. 1) 1975-76, namely, $2,692m, with an Advance to the Treasurer of $ 120m, compared with a total of $ 1,804m in the Supply Act (No. 1 ) 1974- 75, with an Advance to the Treasurer of $60m. The expenditure in the Supply Bill has almost doubled and the Advance to the Treasurer has increased in about the same ratio. Again, the total amount in Supply Bill (No. 2) 1975- 76 is $ 1,802m, and it has in it an Advance to the Treasurer of $ 120m. This compares with a total of $5 13m in Supply Act (No. 2) 1974-75, with an Advance to the Treasurer of $60m. The proposed increase in the appropriation for the Advance to the Treasurer is a little less than a pro rata increase and is along similar lines to those adopted when Opposition senators were in government. So what is all the fuss about? 
If honourable senators thumb through the pages of previous Appropriation Bills and Supply Bills, they will see the pro rata increase. The increase has been at the same rate as the increase in the Supply Bills and Appropriation Bills. However, the Opposition has merely picked out this item and is hammering away, trying to create suspicion about why the amount of the Advance to the Treasurer has increased from $120m to $240m. Years ago the amount of the advance was only $20m. Yesterday I told the Senate that we used to have penny postage but that it did not exist now. Additional cost brings about additional expenditure and provisions for what may arise must be made proportionately. This Government has done what previous governments have done. It is using the Advance to the Treasurer to meet emergent needs. This is well within the framework of the Constitution and- this is important- is subject to the same degree of scrutiny by the Auditor-General as any other government expenditure. The Opposition senators have made great play about accountability and have referred to the Advance to the Treasurer as being petty cash. This Government has to account for every dollar, just as the present members of the Opposition had to do when they were in government. All governments are bound by the same regulations and procedures, which are well defined. 
It may be of interest to remind honourable senators about these regulations and procedures. Firstly, there are the usual Budget documents, Appropriation Bill (No. 1) and Appropriation Bill (No. 2). These are scrutinised by the Estimates Committee and usually are passed in November. I do not need to remind the Senate of the intensive inquiring and scrutiny carried out in Estimate Committees. Appropriation Bill (No. 1) and Appropriation Bill (No. 2) come under special scrutiny in the Senate. The next procedure is when Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and Appropriation Bill (No. 4), which are known as Additional Estimates, are passed in April or May. These are the Bills which we recently passed and which came under close examination by the Estimates Committees. So, what is all this fuss about our trying to pass expenditure and Appropriation Bills without having them closely scrutinised? The expenditure is examined in 2 instances, firstly in considerating Appropriation Bill (No. 1) and Appropriation Bill (No. 2) and secondly in debating Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and Appropriation Bill (No. 4). 
Let us have a look at the remaining period, the period from July to November. Supply Bill (No. 1) and Supply Bill (No. 2) are introduced to cover expenditure for the period. These Bills are currently being debated in this chamber. Now for the contentious part that is being highlighted at this moment- the scrutiny of the Advance to the Treasurer. An Advance to the Treasurer is attached to all appropriations, whether Appropriation Bills or Supply Bills. All these Appropriation Bills show an amount for an Advance to the Treasurer. Honourable senators might well ask: When will the scrutiny of the Advance to the Treasurer take place? I have heard it said here that it takes place after the event. Some honourable senators have been making out that all this is done by the Public Accounts Committee. What rot! 
Previously I made the point that Advances to the Treasurer are used for 3 purposes. Nothing can be done until the items eventually appear in the Appropriation Bills. An examination cannot be made of the money beforehand because it is not known how it will be spent. This is taken on board when the relevant Appropriation Bills come into existence. The Parliament then has scrutiny of them. This occurs only three or four months later. If there has been any wrongdoing or misappropriation by the Government it is picked up then. So why are honourable senators saying that there is no scrutiny of the Advance to the Treasurer? The second step with the Advance to the Treasurer is the issue of a warrant by the Governor-General. This has already been approved, scrutinised and authorised in Appropriation Bills. I now refer to the third procedure. The Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  in the statement that was tabled in this chamber yesterday, gave the perfect example covering this third procedure when he referred to overseas posts. I shall not bore honourable senators by repeating it but I suggest they look at the statement which explains away the third use of the Advance to the Treasurer. 
We have heard a lot about the Public Accounts Committee. I was very pleased to hear  Senator Cotton  eulogise the Committee as he did, because the Committee does give valuable service to the Parliament. But he exaggerated the role of the Public Accounts Committee in examining the Advance to the Treasurer. He tried, I would say innocently, to convey to the Parliament that the scrutiny of the Advance to the Treasurer is carried out by the Public Accounts Committee, but unfortunately he said this occurs after the event, when the money is all spent. This is not quite right. The scrutiny which is carried out by the Public Accounts Committee of the Advance to the Treasurer relates only to those moneys that are left in the Advance to the Treasurer at the end of the financial year. The amount is very small compared with what was there at the beginning of the financial year. 
It is true that the role of the Public Accounts Committee in the scrutiny of the Advance to the Treasurer is important because the Committee carries out the parliamentary scrutiny of moneys charged to the Advance to the Treasurer at the close of the financial year- moneys that have been left after all else has been appropriated. Other items in the Advance to the Treasurer are taken on board in the various Appropriation Bills. It is only what is left that comes under parliamentary scrutiny by the Public Accounts Committee. The Treasurer tables a report showing details of the expenditure and this is then adopted by the Parliament. Again, as a further safeguard in the case of the Senate, the Senate withholds the adoption of the statement of the Advance to the Treasurer that has been made by the Treasurer until such time as the Public Accounts Committee tables its report in the Senate showing that it has carried out and reported on its investigations into the Advance to the Treasurer. 
What further scrutiny do honourable senators want? They can see that scrutiny is carried out by the Estimates Committees in considering the 4 
Appropriation Bills. The Advance to the Treasurer that is attached to these Bills comes on board eventually and has the scrutiny of the Estimates Committees and the Public Accounts Committee, which has an oversight of the expenditure that is left at the end of the financial year in the Advance to the Treasurer. So that Parliament can see what has happened, the Treasurer tables a statement of heads of expenditure and the amounts charged thereto pursuant to section 36A of the Audit Act 190 1- 1 973. This is tabled in the Parliament. I repeat that, in the case of the Senate, the statement is not accepted until the Public Accounts Committee tables its report. 
The TEMPORARY  CHAIRMAN (Senator 
Georges)- Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I ask the Minister for Agriculture: Is there any truth in the report that a large shipment of South American bananas is heading for the east coast markets of Australia? If this report is true, what damage will the shipment cause to the banana growing industry of Queensland and northern New South Wales? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. I ask: Has the Minister been correctly reported as having said that he intends delaying the introduction of the Australian 
Government Insurance Corporation Bill into the Senate? 
-Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of reports that a number of prominent members of the Moscow group of 
Amnesty International have been arrested for anti-Soviet activities? Will the Minister inform the Senate of the accuracy of these reports and of the present position of those who were detained? Has the Australian Government taken up the matter with the Soviet Government? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Media. Before asking the question of the Minister I want to advise him that his Department can expect heavy public demand for copies of the Government's theme song, 'Solidarity Forever'. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article appearing in the Melbourne 'Age' today headed Movie makers struggle against foreign control'? Has the Minister seen a statement in that report that 2 years ago the then Tariff Board in a report on the film industry proposed that the 2 major film distributors operating in Australia be forced to get rid of 1 3 cinemas in 5 capital cities and that it should be illegal for a producer or a distributor to control any exhibition outlet? Will the Minister tell the Senate what action, if any, was taken by the Government on this recommendation? 
My question is addressed to the Postmaster-General and relates to the operation of the Postmaster-General 's Department's priority paid mail service, which at present operates on an interstate basis. Will the Minister give consideration to extending the priority paid service to centres within a State? 
-As Chairman, I present the 154th and 155th reports of the Public Accounts Committee and move that they be printed. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
I seek leave to have a short statement incorporated in Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Georges)-  Is leave granted? There being no dissent, leave is granted. (The statement read as follows)- 
Honourable senators will recall that on 4 December 1974 I tabled the 1 52nd report which relates to expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer for the financial year 1973-74. The 154th report which I am tabling today relates to expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund for that year and covers the remaining items included in the Committee 's annual examination of the expenditure results of departments for that year. In examining expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund each year the Committee seeks to ascertain whether or not the principles relating to the formulation of estimates have been adopted by the departments under examination. These principles which are included in Treasury Direction 16/9 have also been set out in Chapter I of the 154th report. 
In recent years the Committee has paid particular attention to the estimates and related expenditure of departments. As a poor standard of estimating has wide ramifications, the Committee has concerned itself not only with excess expenditure charged to the Advance to the Treasurer but also with the over-provision of funds. The Committee has made it clear that such over-provisions are undesirable, misleading and perhaps unfair to other departments whose financial needs might not have been satisfied. At the same time, the Committee has emphasised that it does not regard the total expenditure of available funds under a particular appropriation item as an objective to be sought without regard to other important considerations. Indeed, undue emphasis on the need to match expenditure and available funds can give rise to unnecessary and uneconomic expenditure and can result in the distortion of administrative practices. In this regard the Committee has on previous occasions criticised departments that have accelerated payments in order to prevent an appropriation from lapsing. 
As this and previous reports relating to expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund show, there are explanations for expenditure variations from the estimates which are acceptable to the Committee. In this report, however, the Committee has also found it necessary to refer to cases of unsatisfactory estimating, inadequate administrative performances that have resulted in shortfalls in expenditure and inaccurate and inadequate submissions to the Committee. Attention has been drawn to these inadequacies where they have arisen. 
The other report I am tabling today, the 1 55th report, is a comprehensive index relating to the Committee s 1st to 142nd reports. I commend the reports to honourable senators. 
I think that all honourable senators will admit that some provision should be made for the declining years of people whether they work in government service or outside that service. I have found over the years that one of the principal reasons for industrial unrest is the uncertainty of employment coupled with the uncertainty of the future for people when they become old. This Bill is not unlike all other superannuation Bills. It is a very intricate measure. But I feel that the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  and his Department have made this issue perfectly clear to us all. They must have devoted a large amount of hard work towards this Bill's consideration and completion. I agree with  Senator Cotton  that the formulating of superannuation funds is a matter for the experts, and there are very few of them. Still, as I said, I believe that the Minister and his Department have placed this Bill before us in a manner in which we can follow it. 
Without going right into the statistical pros and cons of this scheme and comparing it with any other, there are a lot of generalities to which I feel the Senate can devote its attention. On 4 December 1974 the Government announced that it would introduce a new superannuation scheme for Australian Government employees. In line with the philosophy that is now attributed to the Australian Labor Party, that what Labor promises Labor will do, we are discussing this superannuation scheme and the amending legislation this evening. The present superannuation scheme was introduced in 1922. As  Senator Cotton  said, it is true that even in those days when it was introduced it was said that it would be a leader in its field. That is right. The national government should be the leader in all things- in superannuation, in social reform and in all forms of government. I might add here that even though this was the contention in 1922, much of private enterprise felt that the Government might be setting aims for its employees that they could not match for theirs. After 52 years I do not know of any private enterprise that has experienced extreme hardship in bringing into operation a superannuation scheme for its employees that compares favourably with that introduced by the Government. I feel that heights have not been reached with the proposed scheme that will not in time also be reached by private enterprise for its employees. 
It is also worthy of mention that when the first superannuation scheme was introduced in 1922 those who introduced it had the vision, ambition and hope at that time that the Superannuation Bill would be the forerunner of a national scheme that would eliminate such calamities as occur when there is death, accident, fire and unemployment and there are worries about receipt of the age or invalid pension. Again I say that it is a feather in the cap of the Government and to its credit that only it, even in comparison with any of its predecessors, has done anything in a tangible way to bring about a national superannuation or compensation scheme. 
Since its introduction the superannuation scheme has undergone many changes, including the introduction of the Provident Account. Employees in the service of the Australian Government who cannot meet the medical requirements concerning entry into the Public Service can contribute to a Provident Account and be able to take care of themselves in retirement. They receive a retiring allowance of something in the vicinity of3½ times the amount of their contributions. The scheme also has been widened with regard to membership to enable people who are officers of statutory corporations, of which there has been a proliferation over the last 2 decades, together with temporary public servants who have had lengthy service to be able to contribute to the Fund under the Act. 
But the alterations that have been made have been only mechanical alterations that have not provided a great deal of trouble. The main complexities and the crises have arisen from the contribution structure of the present unit of pension scheme. It has been the contributions structure of the scheme that has provided the fundamental weaknesses. It is for that reason in the main that it was felt that a new superannuation scheme ought to be introduced. Under the present scheme contributions may represent 2 per cent or less of a member's salary early in his career, but in the latter years of his career the contributions represent in some cases 25 per cent or even more if the member seeks to maintain his full contributory entitlement. I know that it is the exception, but there have been instances in which 100 per cent of a member's salary has been contributed towards the scheme. Contributions of 60 per cent, 70 per cent and 80 per cent have been quite common. We all agree that the contributions system is complex. When one takes into account that there are over 220 000 employees in the Australian Public Service one can readily understand the crises situations that must inevitably arise. 
Let us took at the development of the new scheme. It was on 8 May 1973 that a report by a departmental committee that recommended the introduction of a new scheme was tabled in the Senate. After receiving invited comments from interested parties the then Treasurer made certain changes to the scheme outlined in that report and proposed the introduction of a new superannuation scheme for Australian Government employees. A proposal, or proposition if one wants to call it that, was again tabled in the Senate on 14 March 1974. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later time. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
When the sitting of the Senate was suspended this evening I was endeavouring to tell the Senate what had taken place regarding the introduction of this new superannuation scheme. I had arrived at the point of saying that on 8 May 1973 a report by a departmental committee on the present scheme was tabled in the Senate. That committee recommended the introduction of a new superannuation scheme for Australian Government employees. After receiving invited comments and proposals from interested parties the Treasurer accepted certain changes for the new superannuation scheme for Australian Government employees and tabled the report in the Senate on 14 March 1974. It was at that stage that the Government then appointed  Mr G.  L. Melville, a Sydney actuary, and Professor Pollard to report on those proposals. The report of those 2 experts was tabled in the Senate on 10 July 1974, and as a result the legislation that we are discussing today was brought before the Parliament. 
One can safely say that no subject brought before the Parliament has been so carefully researched, critically reviewed and open to public examination and debate over such a long period as has this new superannuation legislation. Yet we find that the Opposition is not satisfied with it, despite the fact that the best consultative brains in the land in relation to these matters were employed and despite the fact that the matter was thoroughly canvassed. I was sorry to hear  Senator Cotton,  who usually is very constructive in these matters, damn the measure with faint praise and refer to the expenditure that the country must bear in connection with this scheme. That seemed to be the main punchline in his contribution to the debate. Those of us who have read the legislation and have read the second reading speech know that the public servants will largely be paying for the benefits that they will receive. Surely anybody with a spark of humanitarianism would not object to people being paid sufficient to keep body and soul together after they have served the country faithfully and well to the age of 60 years. How false can the Opposition be in this regard? On examination we find that the proposed scheme will not cost the Government any more to cover those currently covered by the existing scheme. I think it is important to state that point because that was the whole premise upon which the Opposition's defence and argument were based this evening. It will not cost the Government any more to cover under the new scheme those currently covered by the existing scheme. 

 - Senator Wright will have his opportunity to refute what I am saying when he makes his contribution to the debate. I am making the claim and I am standing by it. The fact is that any increased costs that the Government may have to meet and which in fact are caused by the proposed scheme will cover those people who ibr various medical reasons had belonged to the Provident Account. That is the main punchline and the main point in the whole scheme. 
I now refer to the ridiculous situation in which the Opposition finds itself. It supports that part of the scheme in which the Government shall incur extra expenditure to provide the facilities for those people who hitherto were covered in the Provident Account. So it is humbug for the Opposition to say that the reason it is opposed to the scheme or the reason that it will not give the scheme its wholehearted support is because of the extra money it is going to cost the country. I have just pointed out to honourable senators opposite that they are not opposed at all to that part of the scheme in which the extra expenditure will be incurred. 
Let us look at some of the Opposition's proposed amendments. It has circulated 95 proposed amendments. If they are accepted they will make the Bill look like a pakapu ticket. 
Warnings by the Opposition in relation to proposals to spend money on the poorer section of the community are usually framed in derogatory terms. We know that from experience, and yet, on the other hand, members of the Opposition vote enthusiastically in favour of proposals to make presents to big business, as we witnessed earlier this afternoon when a 6-figure amount was given to a Tasmanian business. 
The Opposition is there when presents are made to big business but it opposes any endeavours made by the Government to give some relief to the poorer section of the community. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order! There are too many interjections.  Senator McAuliffe  is addressing the Chair. 
We all know that when referring to Commonwealth public servants members of the Opposition are at times very extravagant in their language. Yet it is a remarkable thing that the standard of the Commonwealth Public Service is such that every private enterprise undertaking in this country is trying to poach public servants from the Australian Government and use them in its own businesses because deep down it recognises the ability and efficiency of the public servants in Australia. 
I turn my attention to some of the amendments proposed by the Opposition. The main amendment that it is putting forward proposes that a contributor under the new scheme must reach the age of 65 years before he can obtain the full Government share of the pension. We all know that since 1902 the Public Service Act has provided that the normal retiring age for public servants shall be 60 years and that it is only with the consent of the employee and the management that a public servant can continue in service until he is 65 years of age. The current Australian Public Service Superannuation Act has provided since 1924 that 50 per cent of salary be paid as the employer's share of pension at the age of 60 years. I submit that it is absurd for the Opposition to propose to put back the clock to 1924, particularly when the social aims of the world community are for a lower retiring age and more leisure time. That is the principle that has been adopted universally throughout the world- a lower retiring age and more leisure time. Yet these great progressives of the Opposition want to advance the retiring age of public servants from 60 years to 65 years. They advocate the removal of the current provision for retirement at 60 years and insist that in future all public servants must work to 65 years if they are to qualify for the full Government benefit. 
I refer to another major amendment foreshadowed by the Opposition. The Opposition proposal is to limit the updating of pensions to the Government financed section of the pension only. This is a significant reduction of benefit compared with current standards. We propose to apply the updating to both parts of the benefit- the member's contribution financed part and the Government portion. The Opposition proposes to reduce this standard and to apply the updating to the Government portion only. What is proposed is out of step with all comparable superannuation funds, whether operated by State governments or private enterprise. The current practice is for the Government financed element of pensions to be updated by 1.4 times the increase in the consumer price index. In the Bill we propose that the whole of the entitlement of the contributor should be updated by one times the movement in the consumer price index, except in the case where the member opts for a lump sum payment. In that event the Government liability for updating applies to the Government's share only. The Opposition wants the updating to be restricted to the Government share and to be one times as against 1.4 times the movement in the consumer price index. It is a watering down of the provisions that members of the superannuation fund have already. Would this amendment proposed by the Opposition not encourage contributors to opt out for a lump sum? I do not need to remind responsible senators what embarrassments a run on lump sum payments could cause to the fund. 
As I have said 95 amendments are proposed by the Opposition. If they are accepted they will make the Bill look like a pakapu ticket. I am not prepared this evening to go through the lot of them. Some are consequential. I believe the major amendments concern the retiring age being increased from 60 years of age to 65 years of age and the updating of the pension on the basis of movements in the consumer price index to apply only to the Government financed element of the pension. As I say, we on this side of the House strongly oppose the amendments. I do not propose to speak at any further length this evening because I believe this Bill has been thoroughly canvassed. No measure has come under a more microscopic examination than has the superannuation legislation. I do not propose to debate the measures at length because I feel that to do so would be a waste of our time. The legislation can stand on its own merits. I commend it to honourable senators. 
Has the Minister for Agriculture seen Queensland Press reports claiming that the Prime Minister whilst in Peru made a bilateral trade deal involving milk powder from Australia in exchange for fish meal from Peru? Surely if this statement is true, the import of large quantities of fish meal would harm the domestic oil seed producers who are now facing low prices. 
-As Chairman, I present the 156th Report of the Public Accounts Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to have a short statement incorporated in Hansard. 
The Committee is considering clause 3, to which  Senator Cotton  has moved the amendment shown as No. 1 on the Opposition's list of proposed amendments. The amendment seeks to leave out ' 60 years ' and insert ' 65 years '. 
We now proceed to the amendments in Group 2 relating to the deletion of the extra 5 percent for more than 30 years of service. I call upon  Senator Cotton  to move formally the relevant amendments, Nos (15), (29), (30), (31) and (32). 
We now proceed to the amendments in group 3 relating to widows benefits and children's benefits. I call upon  Senator Cotton  to formally move amendments Nos (37) to (41) and (44) to (73). 

 - Senator Cotton, are you suggesting that the amendments that should be considered at this stage are amendments Nos 15,29 and 30? 
We now proceed to group 4 of the amendments relating to the limitation of indexation, and I ask  Senator Cotton  to move the relevant amendment, number 9 1 . 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="064232197506050_49_0.jpg"></graphic>

My question is addressed to the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence. So that claims by the Opposition that the Whitiam Government has neglected the welfare of members of the defence forces can be tested, will the Minister inform the Senate of the benefits which have become available to Australian servicemen since this Government came to office? Will he also tell the Senate what benefits have been given to ensure that former serving personnel and their families are adequately covered on retirement? 
-When the Postal Services Bill 1975 and the Telecommunications Bill 1975 were before the Senate on 20 May 1975 the Opposition supported the establishment of 2 commissions. But it amended the legislation so that the Overseas Telecommunications Commission would not be incorporated in the proposed Australian Telecommunications Commission. On that occasion the Opposition advanced certain arguments and took a certain stand. Its attitude on this occasion is no different from its attitude then except that it is probably not so lengthy and is less enthusiastic. On 20 May and again this evening the Opposition supported its stand by saying that the Government did not follow the opinions or the wishes of  Sir James  Vernon. Technically the Opposition may be right because  Sir James  Vernon was the  Chairman  of the Commission of Inquiry and he recommended against the incorporation of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission into the Australian Telecommunications 
Commission at this time. But we should examine just what that decision was. 
There were 3 members of the Commission of Inquiry-  Sir James  Vernon as  Chairman, Mr J.  J. Kennedy, who was possibly the best qualified of the three because he is a Queenslander, and  Mr B.  J. Callinan. They were the 3 commissioners who inquired into the Post Office and its restructuring. The majority of the commissioners said in the report that the OTC should be incorporated into the Australian Telecommunications Commission. The minority opinion was that of the Commission's  Chairman.  On a closer examination of the Chairman's opinion one can put on it a different complexion from that which was put on it by  Senator Durack.  I suppose it depends on the way that one looks at the matter. In commenting on whether the OTC should be incorporated in the Australian Telecommunications Commission,  Sir James  Vernon said: 
The situation will be seen in proper perspective only when the new corporation is properly established and when the Boards and managements of the two corporations have been able to study the practical inter-working of the national and international systems. 
All of us will submit that this is a reasonable point of view- there is no argument with thatbut the main difference between the opinion of  Sir James  Vernon and the opinion of  Mr Kennedy  and  Mr Callinan  seems to me to be about timing. In his statement of opinion  Sir James  Vernon said that it may be more prudent to wait until we see the working of the managements of the 2 commissions, but he has never come down firmly with the opinion that at no time should the OTC ever be included in the Australian Telecommunications Commission. 
I return to the point in question which is simply one of timing.  Sir James  Vernon offered his opinion more than a year ago. The matter has received, as one would expect, a great deal of attention and study. One would have expected that those responsible for preparing the commissions, by anticipating the support of both sides of the Parliament, would have done a lot of preparatory work; and we find that a lot of preparatory work has been done. The opinions of those people who must make the commissions work- the interim Australian Telecommunications Commission and the Governmentshould be valuable in this instance, and those who have the responsibility for making it work consider that the correct time for the amalgamations is right now. The majority opinion of the Commission of Inquiry was that the time to do it is now and the Government and the Interim Commission are saying that the time to do it is now. One might say 'It's time' for the OTC to be included in the Australian Telecommunications Commission. 
Let us look at the OTC- the Overseas Telecommunications Commission. It is a Government statutory authority and of course it is a profitable concern. There is no argument about that and no one has any criticism of this corporate body. The only argument that has taken place in this chamber is as to whether it should remain as a separate corporation or be included in the new Australian telecommunications system. The Government is not disputing that it is a profitable concern. It is the first to recognise that fact. We know that it made a profit in 1973-74 of $ 13.6m and we know also that it paid taxes of $ 1 1.8 m in that year. This money came from telephone subscribers, the same people who make local calls in this country, so the question I pose to the Senate is: Why should Treasury get this money? Instead of this money being paid to Treasury by way of taxation it should have been used for the benefit of subscribers to improve the internal service. 
We heard claims this afternoon, as we heard them when the Bill was before the Senate on 20 May, that the OTC is efficient. We are not disputing that fact. We know it is an efficient oganisation, but this is not one of the points being debated now. The fact is that it could not connect international calls if there were no internal service to help it. It could not connect an international call if the Post Office had not established the internal service here. We submit that the 2 services should work together; they supplement each other. They should not and do not compete with one another. The claim was made so eloquently by the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  in his second reading speech that both these organisations should work together for the Australian people and in the interests of the Australian people. 
Looking at it from a more practical viewpoint, why should there be 2 commissions, one the Australian Telecommunications Commission and the other the Overseas Telecommunications Commission? Why should commissioners on both Commissions be paid service fees? This seems to me to be in striking contrast to the stance that has been taken by Opposition senators over the past few weeks when their new economic philosophy has been: 'We have to chop down on Government expenditure'. The Opposition says that Government expenditure has to be sliced at all costs. Yet in the next breath, just because it suits the Opposition's argument, it is advocating that there should be 2 commissions. The Government says that one commission not only could do the job more efficiently but also could do it more economically. The Opposition's argument has been that we must at all costs cut down on Government expenditure. It has been against the proliferation of corporate bodies yet, just because it suits its argument this afternoon, it is advocating the existence of 2 commissions. 
This brings me to the conclusion that honourable senators opposite are consistent in only one thing- they are consistent in their inconsistency.  Senator Jessop,  who made a contribution to this debate on 20 May, is reported at page 1586 of the Senate Hansard as saying: 
The OTC paid 93.75c to the Post Office for the use of its facilities.  Senator McAuliffe  made an incorrect statement in his speech when he said that the amount of money paid by the OTC for the use of Post office facilities was 30-odd cents a call. It is in fact in excess of 40c a minute and as overseas calls average more than 7 minutes  Senator McAuliffe  's assessment is incorrect by about 1000 per cent . . . 
He went on to use some extravagant language and to say that he completely exploded any argument that I had put in my speech. In fact what I said, as recorded in Hansard of the same day, was this: 
Yet the Australian Post Office, which supplies the telephones, the wiring, the switching gear, the cables and everything that makes an overseas call possible, gets a mere 33c from the OTC for each call. It is unbelievable. I nearly fell off my chair when I read that the only recompense which the Australian Post Office receives from OTC for initiating a call throughout Australia was 33c. 
If I were to be forced to cross every t and dot every i, it would be fair to say that  Senator Jessop  was right in correcting me. I said that the amount received by the Post Office was 33c for each call when in fact it is 36.9c per paid minute. So for a 3-minute call to the United Kingdom, which costs $6, the return to the Post Office would be $1.1 think it receives in the vicinity of 35c per paid minute. If I had wanted to pursue the argument further with  Senator Jessop  no doubt I could have reminded him of the point that was made very effectively by  Senator Drury.  Referring to the future introduction of subscriber trunk dialling facilities for international calls he asked what reason there was for the continuation of OTC because its functions would be incorporated in the machinery and the framework of the ATC. No doubt when STD international calls are available and one-minute calls become permissible, and possibly fashionable, the amount that the Post Office will receive from the OTC, based upon present costs, will be 35c and not 33c, as I said on a previous occasion when  Senator Jessop  responded with such extravagant language claiming that he had exploded all my arguments. 
We have traversed all this territory before. We argued the pros and cons of this matter in the Senate on 20 May, as we have argued the pros and cons of 15 other major Bills. One gets giddy and tired from the tedious monotony of repeating the same old arguments for and against. However there is one point to which I should like to advert before I conclude. Where does the staff of the OTC fit into this argument and debate? We know that there are 2000 staff members in the OTC. In the Australian Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission there will be over 120 000 employees. Those of us who have read the Bill and who debated this issue previously know that in the Telecommunications Bill (No. 1 ) arrangements were made for a 5-year period. Arrangements and provisions were also made in that Bill whereby staff in one of the Commissions could apply for promotion in the other Commission. Now, thanks to the Opposition's rejection of Government measures, the staff of the OTC will have only 2000 jobs for which to bid as against the 120 000 positions that they would have if the proposal before the Senate were adopted. I do not need to tell the Senate of the better job opportunities that would be available to members of the OTC if there were only one commission responsible for telecommunications. There would be a wider field of promotion and better opportunities for development of staff members as people. All these things are now denied the people who work in the OTC, not to mention the uncertain future that must undeniably be hanging over the heads of employees of the OTC if this legislation is defeated. 
As sure as day follows night, if this measure is defeated, as the spokesman for the Opposition has indicated that it will be, the Government will wheel the legislation back to the Senate in the budget session and it will be established as a double dissolution measure. However let us forget about a double dissolution. I am not mentioning this Bill in the context of a double dissolution. I am mentioning it because of the uncertainty that will hang over the heads of the employees of the OTC. Surely it must damage the morale of the members of the staff to have this terrible uncertainty hanging over their heads. 
One wonders just how sincere the Opposition is in its opposition to Government measures and the attitude that it adopts towards the progressive legislation that the Government continually brings before the Senate. The members of the Opposition must not have a spark of humanitarianism in them. Forgetting the nuts and bolts of the organisations of the Commissions, surely they must have some consideration for the welfare and future well-being of the 2000 people who comprise the staff of the OTC. Surely that must be worthy of some consideration by honourable senators opposite, but so far no consideration has been given by them in their contribution to the debate to the welfare or wellbeing of the staff. Surely the continual obstruction of Government legislation by members of the Opposition, the campaign of pretence and pretext which they are conducting, and their attitude of being consistent in their inconsistencies, must have only one fate. The day of reckoning is coming. The electorate will again show the members of the Opposition, just as it has done twice in less than 3 years, how much it is opposed to the attitudes they adopt in this place. 
In conclusion I say that I have not heard any valid argument that would make one think twice about whether the OTC should be incorporated in the Australian Telecommunications Commission, except that it is not the time. But we of the Government who have been members of this Senate for some time, and who have seen the attitude adopted in this chamber by the Opposition towards legislation, know that it will never be time for anything that the Government wants to do. Until honourable senators opposite change their ways and get behind the Government and support the progressive legislation that is coming before this chamber they will have no chance whatsoever of ever again occupying the Treasury bench of this Parliament. 
Before addressing myself to the debate I should like to say that I do not think the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  enhanced his reputation in this place by snidery asking where were the Ministers in this chamber and saying that he would be followed by the boy from Queensland. Does he deny Queensland senators the right to participate in this debate? After all, Queensland is a State that has given to this Parliament 3 eminent Treasurers- E. G. Theodore, Fadden and the present Treasurer, Bill Hayden. But I do not know that the State that the Leader of the Opposition represents, Western Australia, has a record to equal that. However, I am not going to be too sensitive about the matter, but it is typical of the criticisms that the honourable senator makes of people on the Government side when he has no evidence to support the claims that his colleagues have been making. 
Ever since the December 1972 election when the Liberal-Country Parties were thrown out of power, and now that they are the Opposition, they seem to have flatly refused to accept the verdict of the people; they do not seem to realise and appreciate that they are no longer the Government; that they are the Opposition. They beieve that, like the Stuarts' divine right of kings, they have the divine right and duty to occupy the Treasury benches. We have seen that they will come at anything to achieve these ends. We have seen them in operation as the Opposition for 3 years now. The pattern of their strategy is falling into place. When the Government introduces measures on matters such as health, welfare and education it receives tardy and qualified censure from the Opposition members. They use every pretence and pretext to delay the measures. But any attempt to discredit the credibility of the Government is trumpeted with the loudest blast throughout the nation. 
Let us examine the urgency motion that is before the Senate today and see what all the fuss is about. The motion is very broad indeed; it covers a wide spectrum. But is there any charge of dishonesty or improper practice contained in the motion? Of course there is not. Let us put the situation under calm and careful consideration. With regard to overseas loan raisings, the availability of funds today is quite different from what it was, say, 2 or 3 years ago. However, we hope that one practice still remains, and that is the practice that when governments, irrespective of their political persuasion, have been successful in raising a loan their success has been welcomed by the nation because loans have been required for national purposes. They were even hailed by the State governments because the States would have benefited from the transactions also. That is how it should be, and let us hope that it will continue to be that way. 
Since 1973, with the increase in the price of oil, an amount of some $60,000m has changed direction; it has come under control of different people. A large amount of that money was being invested in Switzerland and elsewhere in Europe for wealthy individuals in various financial circles. The competition to lend is keen. We heard  Senator Wood  say here this morning that he was approached by an intermediary. I was approached by an intermediary who said he was representing Denis Lee, the  Chairman  of the Moscow Norodny Bank in Singapore, and the brother of Lee Kuan Yew. He claimed he could get the money. So there are intermediaries all around the place. One wonders now whether, because the Singapore Branch of the Moscow Norodny Bank did not get the lending authority it might be trying to discredit the Government. One wonders what is happening in these things when one sees letters floating around and being bandied around throughout the community by the Opposition. This Government has, as any other government has, a responsibility to ascertain the circumstances with respect to the availability of these funds. Other governments took similar steps to explore new areas for available funds and available investment. Their steps were justified. If we had not done so we would have been vulnerable to criticism for failing to do so. That would have been the cry of the Opposition. It would have told us: 'There is an abundance of petro-dollars available. What are you doing about it?' 
Let us turn our attention to  Mr Phillip  Lynch. Just how reliable is he? He has engaged in a smear campaign against  Mr Khemlani  in order to discredit the Government. He has implied that the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  a most highly respected member of this Parliament for a long period of years, has been dealing with people of no repute in arranging funds for the Australian Government.  Mr Lynch  has claimed that  Mr Khemlani  has a criminal record and was engaged by the Government to do the rounds of overseas financial institutions. What are the facts?  Mr Lynch  has again been played as a sucker. He has been misinformed about or has made up these accusations against  Mr Khemlani. Mr Khemlani  has been cleared by the Treasury and by Scotland Yard. My colleague the Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Senator James  McClelland, earlier gave complete and adequate answers to  Mr Lynch  's false claims regarding  Mr Khemlani.  This is only another occasion on which  Mr Lynch  has been proven to be the carrier of false information. 
Sure we remember his stance when he denied the water torture incidents in Vietnam. He later capitulated and admitted certain water torture incidents. What about his denials of a man called O'Neill being chained in the trenches in Vietnam? He capitulated again and admitted he was wrong. There is no doubt that  Mr Lynch  will be proven wrong again, just as he was proven wrong on the 2 Vietnam issues and on his denial of a claim of bastardisation in the Army at Duntroon. Since I have been a member of the Senate 
I have seen  Mr Lynch  conceive many things. He has conceived on many occasions, and nothing has happened. I submit to the Senate that  Mr Lynch  must be barren. Whether or not he is barren, he is certainly acrobatic. When  Mr Malcolm  Fraser was making his run against  Mr Snedden, Mr Lynch  's footwork was so complete that everyone knew that he had a foot in each camp. The only reason he did not have a foot in the third camp,  Mr Peacock's,  was that he had only 2 feet. So much for  Mr Lynch. 
Let us turn our attention to the self-appointed representative in the Senate of  Mr Lynch.  I refer to  Senator Greenwood. Senator Greenwood  has repeated all the charges made by  Mr Lynch  and has attempted to make out that in the Government's negotiating overseas loans, in petrodollars, for $4,000m somebody was doing something improper, that as a result of the one per cent which was mentioned as brokerage somebody stood to make $40m and that somewhere, somehow the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam), Dr J.  F. Cairns and  Mr Connor  were connected. I think  Senator Greenwood  also included his old friend, the former Leader of the Government in the Senate, ex-Senator Murphy. What a contemptible state of affairs. Being a member of a ministry and a former Attorney-General, the senator should know that all governments, whether they are Labor or Liberal-National Country Party governments, traditionally deal with brokers such as Morgan Stanley and Co. Inc. of New York. It has been traditional for expenses, fees and brokerages to be paid. 
Earlier today, at question time, my Leader had permission from the Senate to have incorporated in Hansard a list of loan raisings by the LiberalCountry Party Government, together with the percentage of fees and expenses paid, between 1967 and 1972. So the electors of Australia can be informed and can judge for themselves whether this Government is acting illegally or improperly, as claimed by  Senator Greenwood  and the Opposition, I will read out the loan borrowings by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government and the amount of fees and expenses that were paid for the period 1967-72. In 1972 there was a Japanese loan for $9. 8m. The expenses were 1.93 per cent. In January 1972 there was a German loan for DM 100m. The expenses were 3.09 per cent. In 1971 there was a loan from the Netherlands for f60m. The expenses were 1.55 per cent. I can give further examples. There was a Swiss loan for SwF60m and the expenses were 5.06 per cent. There was a German loan in July 1968 and the expenses were 3.15 per cent. There was a Swiss loan in April 1967 for SwF50m and the expenses were 5.16 per cent. In 1967 there was a German loan and the expenses were 3.20 per cent. The average percentage of expenses and brokerage paid on loans arranged by the previous Liberal-National Country Party Government during the period 1 967 to 1 972 was 2.97 per cent. 
This is the traditional procedure followed by Liberal-National Country Party Governments. It is the traditional procedure that has been followed by this Government and, no doubt, will be followed by governments in the future. This whole affair has been a despicable attempt to discredit this Government. The charges made by the Opposition have not been supported. As I said earlier,  Mr Lynch  has been played for a sucker. The Opposition, particularly  Senator Greenwood  in his demeanour and his stance in these matters, is like the old Irish policeman who, having apprehended the prisoner and having questioned him, said: 'You might be right; you might be wrong; but I do not think so'. That is the attitude of the Opposition in this matter. 
-I should like to add a brief tribute to those already paid to the late  Senator Milliner.  The leaders of the respective parties in the Senate already have dealt eloquently with his distinguished career in the industrial and the political movement and I wish to associate myself with all that has been spoken of previously. Bert Milliner, above all, was a great Queenslander and he was fiercely proud of it. He was born at Kelvin Grove, an inner-city suburb in the western districts of Brisbane, and he lived there all his life. So it was not surprising that the name Milliner became synonymous with western suburbs and any of the activities of organisations in that area. One of his greatest loves was his association with the Western Suburbs Rugby League Football Club, which he told me on the morning of his death was certain to win its first premiership since 1954. 1 think time will prove him a good judge because the club is far enough in front at the moment to win even a Melbourne Cup. 
Whilst we could speak at length about his illustrious achievements, time is not available and I want to avoid repetition. But there is one thing I should like to mention regarding his career and that is the contribution he made to community afFairs and the unselfish service he gave to them. As my leader has said,  Senator Milliner  was a member of the Queensland Apprenticeship Committee. He was a member also of the Board of Adult Education, a member of the Pensioners ' Aid Society and a member of the committee that selected people for Churchill fellowships. To these committees he gave many hours of valuable and unselfish service in an honorary capacity and the committees were all the richer as a result of his participation and the trade union experience that he was able to bring to them. 
While reflecting on the service that the late  Senator Milliner  has given to these committees, one wonders just how government committees would function without men like  Senator Milliner  and the other trade unionists who give so much of their time in an honorary capacity. Whilst Bert Milliner will be missed by many, he nevertheless will be remembered. I suppose one could sum it up in a true Australian term: He is one who has certainly made a scratch on the mirror of time. I join with the previous speakers in extending to his wife, Thelma, and his family, my deepest sympathy. 
Has the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation seen reports of a speech made by the Leader of the Opposition to a small group of insurance industry workers outside Parliament House yesterday? If so, is the Leader of the Opposition correct in his assertion that the proposed Australian Government Insurance Corporation would not be subject to the Insurance Acts, the Trade Practices Act or the proposed Corporations and Securities Industry Act? Is the Leader of the Opposition correct in his claim that the Government has unreasonable power to decide what should be national interest insurance? 
-Is the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation aware that payments for medical services to injured persons which formerly were met by workers compensation and third party insurance are now being claimed under Medibank? If he is aware of that, has he any estimate of the amount that these claims may cost in the next financial year? Is he aware of any insurance company plans to reduce premiums in this field and to pass on to the consumers any savings from this apparent windfall? 
Has the Minister for Agriculture seen in today's  Australian  a report that the Queensland Government will protest against a decision by the Australian Government to suspend the $28m dairy adjustment program? Has the scheme been suspended? If so, why? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, follows one asked yesterday by  Senator Melzer  and also the quotation made by the Minister from the minutes of a meeting of an insurance company. Am I correct in drawing the conclusion that it is now becoming obvious that a continuing campaign is being conducted by insurance companies to defeat the Labor Government? Does the Minister have any more documents of this nature in his possession? Does he feel that the fact that workers in the insurance industry are prepared to leak those documents to him must be an indication of less than total agreement among workers in the industry with the campaign being conducted by the industry? Finally, does the Minister have any other evidence that workers in the industry are dissatisfied with the industry's operations as an industry and its present political conduct? 
One could be forgiven for thinking that  Senator Laucke,  who resumed his seat just prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner, was addressing his fellow directors in his capacity as  chairman  of directors in 1914, the year of his birth, because whilst it may have been a fitting speech then it was out of character and out of date as far as present circumstances are concerned and contributed nothing either destructive or constructive to the debate on the Budget. Before I discuss the Budget I would like to pay tribute to the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  for the courage, skill and ingenuity that he has revealed in introducing this mammoth Budget to meet one of the gravest crises in our history. With masterly judgment- I mean what I say- he has kept the deficit to a reasonable $2, 798m, which is a little less than last year's deficit of $2,888m. That is a substantial achievement because people who have some knowledge of government financing and accounting were predicting a potential deficit of approximately $5,000m or $4,500m. 
The Treasurer has been able to give us a reasonable deficit without in any way being prevented from improving the lot of the pensioners or people in the low income group. He has also enabled the Government to continue with its welfare policy, particularly in the fields of education and health. Possibly the Treasurer's most noteworthy achievement in this Budget is the introduction of a radical new tax system which will give the average family man $5 a week extra in his pay packet and will allow him to keep much more ofthe wage increases that he will receive in the future. I think that is the most noteworthy achievement of the Treasurer because he is the only Treasurer for decades who has had the courage, the industry and the capacity to tackle such an important question. However, I will say more about that later. As our Treasurer- I am happy to say as a Treasurer from Queensland- Bill Hayden has played his part incomparably well judged even on the high standard and possibly the model standard of previous Treasurers from Queensland such as E. G. Theodore and the late  Sir Arthur  Fadden whom  Mr Hayden  has followed but does not lag behind. 
In his Budget Speech the Treasurer said that the Budget is framed in a situation in which inflation is this nation's most menacing enemy. It is true that the Budget has been presented at a time of high inflation and, judged on Australian standards, in a period of high unemployment. Inflation, which is a form of indirect taxation, has been described by many acknowledged authorities as the most corrupt and insidious form of taxation. A taxpayer knows how much he will have to pay as direct taxation and in most instances he knows how much he will be called upon to pay in indirect taxation, but he has no idea of the extent to which he is committed by inflation until he has to pay the ever-increasing prices for the commodities which he intends to buy. 
The impression that honourable senators opposite, particularly those who have at different periods been described as purveyors of misery and prophets of gloom and are hoping for the worst and fearing the best, have endeavoured to give to the electorate at large is that inflation is peculiar to Australia, that it was manufactured by the Australian Labor Party and did not come into existence until December 1972 when the Whitlam Government occupied the treasury bench. But the commonsense and intelligent people in the electorate know as well as all honourable senators in this place should know that all countries are suffering from inflation. Some are suffering less and some more but we all have the same problems. Of course inflation in Australia today, contrary to what honourable senators have been endeavouring to tell us during the past months and no doubt will be endeavouring to tell us in the future, is not at a record high level. They have been claiming erroneously that that is so but inflation was galloping at 22 per cent in 1950, 1951 and 1952. 
In the Menzies-Fadden Government when the Leader of the then Country Party was the  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Treasurer, in his first Budget inflation was running at 13.6 per cent, in his second Budget it was 16.7 per cent and in his third Budget it was an all time record for Australia- 22 per cent. That is the history of inflation in this country. Yet we will all agree that the late  Sir Arthur  Fadden as the handler of the nation's finances was a giant of a man compared with the pygmies who are handling the Opposition's financial strategy today; but he was unable to do anything about inflation. 
The point I want to make quite emphatically this evening is that, despite the claims made by honourable senators opposite, even though inflation is too high today it is many points below the record figure for this country which was established in 1952 under a Liberal-Country Party government with the late  Sir Arthur  Fadden as Treasurer. After listening to the criticism of the strategy of the Government and being told what the strategy of the Opposition would be if it were in government, I endeavoured to find in our past a set of circumstances comparable to those that exist today. After blowing the cobwebs off the  Hansard  records and thumbing through the pages I was forced to return to the period 1950, 1951 and 1952. I carefully researched not the promises that were made by the government in that period but the actual Budget strategy that it employed. 
Let us look at just what the Government of that time did in similar circumstances to those that we are experiencing today. Before I do so I wish to remind all in this chamber and all who are listening- if anybody needs reminding- of the great catchcry in 1949 when government supporters travelled the length and breadth of this country and said: 'We will put value back into the pound if you will return us as the government'. When they were making the claim that they would put value back into the pound they knew as well, as I did that under the Western capitalist system it was impossible for them to do so. So impossible was it for them at the time that an eminent Treasurer and former great Prime Minister was forced to make a statement. I refer to Joseph Benedict Chifley. Ben Chifley, when speaking of the claim by members of the Opposition that they would put value back into the £ 1 if they were returned as a government, said: 
No person can be so mean or despicable as a politician who makes promises he knows he cannot fulfil. 
When the Liberal and Country Parties came into government they introduced a Budget. For 3 years they had a similar strategy. They assisted the monopolies and the big industries but slugged the workers and did very little for the pensioners. 
The Tory story about sales tax in the period from 1950 to 1952 is a very sad one indeed. Let us look at some of the Fadden levies. The Government of the time put a 33  lA  per cent sales tax on children's toys, a 20 per cent sales tax on ice cream and sweets, a 20 per cent sales tax on razor blades and a 25 per cent sales tax on the birthday cake and the Christmas cake. It was not satisfied with slugging the kiddies of this country. Before a young man and his bride could go to the altar in marriage they had to give 14 guineas to the Treasury. This represented a 66% per cent sales tax on their engagement ring. That was the sort of tax that was introduced in circumstances similar to those of today by those who sit opposite. Fadden wiped out the subsidy to dairy farmers and also abandoned the wool growers. What was more despicable than the sacking of 10 000 public servants? That was the strategy, the tactics and the Budget philosophy of the Tories in 1950, 1951 and 1952. They made promises similar to those we are hearing today, but when they got into government they repudiated those promises and gave the whole of the nation a terrific bashing in the form of restrictions and restraint. 
Earlier I heard  Senator Wright  interjecting. It is appropriate that he should, because one can recall his stand by reading the  Hansard  of the time. The measures that were taken in the Budget were almost entirely opposed to the promises  Senator Wright  made to the Tasmanian people. In 1949  Senator Wright,  together with  Senator Guy, Senator Henty  and  Senator Wordsworth,  issued a pamphlet which set out all the things they had promised to do if their Party were returned to power. In case the honourable senator has forgotten them, I will remind him of some. The manifesto stated that they would fight for the highest living standards, give generous help for house owners, increase production to lower inflation, reduce taxes, introduce social services without a means test, stabilise primary industries, put value back into the f 1 , and so on. Those were the promises  Senator Wright  made in 1 949. Now, almost 30 years afterwards, he remains a repudiator of those promises. 
How can anyone take Opposition senators seriously in the future as to anything they promise about what they will do in the Budget if their Party becomes the government again? Opposition senators might say that that was 3C years ago and that there are different senators, there is a new ball game and there is an entirely new set of circumstances. We all know that the Tories today are the same as the Tories of yesteryear. Of course they are. Honourable senators should not just take my word for that. An eminent statesman, Benjamin Disraeli, whose words should be acceptable to the Opposition because he was the founder of the modern Tory party in Great Britain today, said of the Tories on 17 March 1845- a very important date for such a provocative statement: 
A conservative government is always an organised hypocrisy. 
What Disraeli said more than 100 years ago is still true of all the conservatives and the Tories today. It applies whether they are in office or out of office. It applies all the time because all the time they are pretending to be something that they are not. So, just as they broke their promises in 1950, 1951 and 1952 and adopted measures as harsh as I related previously, they will again make idle promises in 1975 or whenever it will be the ill fortune of the Australian people to have to suffer them on the treasury bench. But, as sure as day follows night, one can bet that they will again repudiate their promises. 
I cannot help but mention the promises and the strategy that were outlined by the Leader of the Opposition in the other place  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He made many promises, but the whole pattern of his Budget strategy was to look after the strong and to forget about the weak. Any leader who does not display any humanitarian instincts, anyone who is devoid of a spark of humanitarianism, will have a very shaky passage as the leader of a national government, a State government or any other government. One of the prerequisites for good leadership is a humanitarian approach of being able to help those who cannot help themselves, and not just making life easier for the strong and neglecting the weak. 
On the other hand let us examine now some of the promises of Labor. I have told of the promises of the Tories and how they repudiated those promises. What Labor has promised Labor will do. We have kept our promises in all the things for which we have been given a mandate, except when we have been frustrated or blocked from doing so in the Senate. Let us examine some of the points in the Hayden Budget. Highlighting the many innovations is what I previously referred to- a radical new tax system. Many wage earners with families will receive income tax cuts of more than $4 a week from 1 January next year. In some cases taxpayers earning more than $10,000 a year will have more than $10 a week extra in their pay packets. A person earning $7,000 a year or $135 a week, with a nonworking wife and 2 children, will pay $4.06 a week less in tax- a cut of some 27 per cent in his tax bill. A person in the same circumstances earning $13,000 a year or $250 a week will have $5.03 extra in his pocket- a saving of 8.1 per cent. Another significant aspect of the new system is that as from next year income earners will lose in tax a smaller proportion of pay increases they receive. Wage earners on average weekly earnings of $ 1 55 a week pay 45c in the $ 1 at the moment. Under the new scale they will pay 35c in the $1. What a progressive move is the abolition of the old method of deducting allowances to arrive at taxable income. Instead there will be a new scale of 7 tax steps ranging from 20c in the $1 on incomes up to $2,000 to 65c in the $1 on incomes of $25,000 a year and above. 
One could go on at length examining the highlights of this Budget. I understand that the list of speakers for this debate is very lengthy. My colleagues no doubt will canvass very eloquently and adequately the points that have not been dealt with already. Before concluding I would like to say that we on this side of the Senate would be foolish if we said that this was a perfect Budget. Has anyone ever seen a Budget that has been accepted as the perfect Budget or has been warmly received? In realism, we say that this is a good Budget in the circumstances and has gone a long way to putting the country on the path to correcting inflation. Unfortunately there are some hardships associated with it. These taxes have had to be levied because money has to be raised and the Government is keen to press on with the welfare policies that it has 2 mandates to carry out. If money has to be raised one has to be realistic. Instead of taxing the child's ice creams, the birthday cake and the engagement ring, this Government has put an excise on cigarettes, beer and whisky. 
We here all know that man cannot live by bread alone. It is regrettable that there has to be such a heavy excise on these commodities, but I sincerely hope that it will not be for long and that the Government, in its next Budget, will be able to reduce these indirect taxes and carry on with its very progressive welfare policy. In view of all the circumstances the problems that we have are not bedevilling only Australia, but also bedevilling other countries. As I have said, this Budget has gone a long way to correcting these things. In all the circumstances it is a good Budget. I have no hesitation whatsoever in enthusiastically commending it to the Senate. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Police and Customs. I refer to a recent court case in which 2 brothers were charged with having imported cannabis resin inside typewriter cases. Can the Minister advise the Senate whether smuggling of this type has previously been drawn to his attention? If so, what is his Department doing to detect drug smuggling of this type? 
I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration whether the article appearing in today's  Australian  newspaper alleging that coal miners in New South Wales southern districts have been taken off unemployment benefit on the Minister's instructions is correct. Is it true that many coal miners in Queensland are currently receiving unemployment benefit? I further ask the Minister: Will he clarify the position in relation to coal miners' eligibility for unemployment benefit in the circumstances that currently prevail in New South Wales and Queensland? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Police and Customs as the Minister representing in this place the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. I ask: In view of the Government's policy of decentralisation will the Minister consider establishing in Brisbane the headquarters of the new Australian Housing Corporation? 
I usually refrain from speaking during the adjournment debate. I strongly support the remarks of  Senator Keeffe  and  Senator Georges  on this occasion. I think that what has occurred in the Queensland Parliament today is very important. I did not think I would ever live to see the day, as a Queenslander, when the political affairs of that State would sink to the level they have at present. The Gestapo-type manner in which the filling of this vacancy was carried out is reminiscent of the days of Hitler's bully boys. I am pleased to say that a section of the Liberal Party in Queensland- including all the Liberal members of the Cabinet- supported the correct nomination, that of  Dr Mai  Colston. 
 I regret that the National Country Party of Australia in Queensland adopted the attitude that it did, particularly after the comments of the Federal Leader of the Liberal Party and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Federal Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony).  I would have thought this evening that the National Country Party Whip in this place would have risen to his feet to support his Leader in the stand that he has taken on the filling of this vacancy. He still has time to rise and support the advice of his Federal parliamentary leader. 
I very much deplore the fact that participation in politics among a lot of people in Queensland has reached the stage where it could be classified as political thuggery. I cannot recall- in fact I do not think I know- the person who has been appointed,  Mr Field.  I am surprised that I do not know him. I have heard that he was supposed to be a  President  of a Labor Party branch and was a member of the Australian Labor Party. I first sat on the Queensland Central Executive of the Party in 1950. I feel I have been reasonably active in the political life of that State ever since. He appears to be unknown to me. I will wait until he arrives in this place. I do know one thing about  Mr. Field.  He had something that all of us on this side of this House hold very dear- that is, membership of the great Australian Labor Party. It is known to me that he has put himself outside the boundary of the Australian Labor Party. He was automatically expelled as a member of that Party when he allowed himself to be induced to nominate to fill this vacancy against the endorsed Labor candidate,  Dr Mai  Colston. I hope the occasion will present itself in this Senate when he takes his place here to remind him of his misadventure. I hope to speak on the matters that have been raised here this evening in future debates. 
Before I resume my seat I must deplore the tactics adopted to assassinate the character of  Dr Mai  Colston. I think any fairminded decent person who has any humanitarianism at all will deplore the action of producing a letter assassinating the character of a person in view of the fact that later it was divulged that the relevant file was missing. As if enough damage had not been done to the man's character by the production of a letter 13 years after the alleged happening, it was then said that the file was missing and the inference was that during his period of employment as a research officer in .the Police Department he had taken the file away. 
It seems to me- and anybody who has followed the whole strategy of this affair would agree- that someone other than  Dr Colston  should take the guilt for the missing file. I agree with what  Senator Georges  and  Senator Keeffe  have said.  Dr Colston  is the number 3 candidate on the Labor Party ticket for the next Senate election. I have a lot of confidence in the Queensland people, even though sometimes they get a little wayward in their political thinking. They usually come back on to the path because Queensland has a great record. It was Queensland that gave the world its first Labor Government. It was the Queenslanders who gave the Labor Party a world record for the longest serving period in government of any Labor Party. Barcaldine in Queensland was the birthplace of the great Australian Labor Party. So we Queenslanders have not always been political thinkers in the way in which we are thinking at the moment. I think that despite what happened today in the Queensland Parliament and despite other actions which have occurred previously and which seem destined to occur again in Queensland on account of this stand-over, Hitler, bully-boy tactic that is being adopted, the Queensland people are going to realise the error of their political judgment in the past few years and are going to flock back to the Australian Labor Party. But one thing is certain: Whilst such things might happen in Queensland, the  Senator elect  will never be allowed to return to the Australian Labor Party. 
I address my question to the Minister for Police and Customs and I refer to a statement made by him in which he said: 
The Australian Government has no intention of expanding the operations of the joint police force. 
In the same statement the Minister also pointed out that his views did not compare with those expressed by the Premier of Queensland, the  Hon.  Joh Bjelke-Petersen. Will the Minister advise the approximate number of officers in the Australia Police and the number employed in Queensland? What long term alterations can the Minister see being made to the numbers? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. The Minister will recall that he was previously asked at question time the details of the total pension payments that are available to the Totally and Permanently Incapacitated veterans by way of both disability and service pensions. I now ask the Minister: Is he able to provide similar information relating to the total payments available to war widows? 
My question is addressed to the Special Minister of State. Because the Minister has the responsibility for national museums and national collections I invite his attention to the fact that the anchor of Captain Cook's  Endeavour  was found near Cooktown about 4 years ago and ask: What action has been taken to preserve the anchor? Is anything being done to arrange for the anchor to be put on public exhibition? 
My question is addressed to the Special Minister of State. He will know that local governments in Queensland recently received substantial allocations of funds from the Grants Commission. Can the Minister give any breakdown of the Queensland allocations? Further, is it true that local governments in Queensland, particularly those councils in rural areas, received the highest per capita grants in Australia in this year's allocation? Finally, how do these substantial untied grants to rural areas in Queensland compare with the previous Liberal-Country Party Government's assistance to rural areas in that State? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. I ask: Is he aware that, following the broadcast of an interview with him on the program  AM  on Thursday 25 September 1975, an Opposition spokesman,  Mr Chipp,  was invited to express or comment upon the Opposition's views on the Australian Government Insurance Corporation legislation? Did the Minister hear  Mr Chipp's  comments and was he able to make any sense of them? Were the statements made by  Mr Chipp  in relation to the Australian Government Insurance Corporation legislation true? 
In addressing myself to the Loan Bill 1975 I wish to instance what happened in 1971-72 when the Liberal-Country Party Government was in office and when it probably was also ill. Liberal-Country Party governments are sometimes both. When the Liberal-Country Party Government presented its second last Budget there were among the Budget papers similar documents to those appended to this year's Budget Speech. Among the papers attached to the 197 1-72 Budget Speech was Budget Statement No. 3, which made this observation: 
It is not possible to predict accurately what changes will occur in holdings of Commonwealth securities by the public on the one hand and by the banking system on the other. These, as discussed earlier, will reflect monetary and other developments during the course of the year. 
That is what the Opposition said when it was in office. This debate is remarkable for one fact, that is, for the fact that it is taking place at all. The Loan Bill 1975, which is before the chamber for consideration, is a machinery Bill which is required to secure the authority to borrow amounts for the financing of defence expenditure that will need to be charged to the Loan Fund during 1975-76. All honourable senators know that the Australian Government's financial transactions are recorded in 3 separate funds. The first fund is the Consolidated Revenue Fund, the second is the Loan Fund and the third is the Trust Fund. As the Treasurer (  Mr Hayden)  pointed out in Budget Paper No. 4 attached to his Budget Speech, the estimated expenditure for 1975-76 normally charged to the Consolidated Revenue Fund substantially exceeds the estimated receipts of the Fund, which is part of the estimated overall deficit of some $2, 798m, as outlined in the Budget Speech. 
In this kind of situation successive governments have obtained authority from the Parliament to charge to the Loan Fund some expenditures which would normally be met from the Consolidated Revenue Fund. It is a normal practice, a machinery measure that has been adopted by previous governments and that no doubt will be adopted by other governments in the future. It is a policy that is certain to be pursued by other governments. Liberal governments introduced similar Bills in 1968, 70, 71 and 1972. So I ask: Why all the fuss and all the rot that we have been subjected to in the course of the debate on the Loan Bill 1975? The remarkable thing about this debate is that the Opposition is attempting to criticise the Government for doing something that the Opposition itself did on numerous occasions when it was in government. That is the hypocrisy of the opposition to this Bill. 
Honourable senators opposite suggested in their speeches during the second reading debate that the Government is hiding something by not saying how the deficit will be financed. Surely anybody who knows anything- even the elementary accountancy student- knows that the fact is that the Opposition did not explain either when it was in government how it was going to finance its deficits in other years. Of course it did not. As I said earlier, any first year accountancy student would know that no government is going to say at the outset of a financial year how it is going to finance this deficit. What it will do in the course of the year will be decided by the economic requirements of the time. As the year goes by all kinds of variations in the economy will occur which will require a different monetary policy from time to time. That occurs with Labor governments and with anti-Labor governments. The Opposition would have us, and the electorate at large, believe that deficits are something new, that they are associated only with the great Australian Labor Party when in government. 
Deficits are nothing new.  Senator Wright  knows as I do that deficits are nothing new. More often than not deficits have been incurred on total Budget accounts for a 12 months period. Anyone who cares to thumb the pages of previous Budgets will see that as clear as crystal before his eyes. The Opposition voices are saying that this is a special deficit as though they do not agree with it and this is something peculiar to the Labor Party in government. I submit that at least the Opposition and the Government seem to have much in common on this occasion regarding the deficit, because the other evening in the other place the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  more or less agreed with the level of the deficit of $2,798m, in round figures. I do not need to remind honourable senators opposite that such a deficit is a fact of life that has been accepted by the Leader of the Opposition as being a reasonable figure for a deficit on which to formulate his financial policy if by accident he were to become the Prime Minister of this country. 
There were voices in opposition to the deficit but it is a figure that has been accepted as reasonable by the Opposition's own leader. It follows that if the Leader of the Opposition were going to work to that sort of deficit he would have to employ the same sort of mechanisms as are being employed through this Bill. He would have available to him the same Treasury advice. He would be bound by the same Treasury minutes. He would have the scrutiny of the same PublicAccounts Committee. Books would be audited by the same Auditor-General of Australia. He would have to apply himself in the same manner as this Government has applied itself towards a deficit of some $2, 798m. So why do we hear all this rot that the Labor Party is the only party that mismanages, that it is unable to handle the economy or to govern? Even when the Opposition was on the Treasury bench it found itself- and if they are ever again returned to the Treasury bench it will find itself- in the same position as this Government. It will have to work within the confines of the Treasury regulations of this country and it will have to finance and introduce measures- Appropriation Bills, Loan Bills and Supply Bills- as this Government has to do. So much for that. 
On this occasion in respect of money Bills the Opposition is running true to form. It has tried again to imply that the Bill seeks to authorise additional defence expenditure. It seems to think that every time we introduce a money Bill we are trying to crib some extra money that is not provided for in the normal machinery of government. Again, that is absolute poppycock, and of course the Opposition knows as well as we know that it is not true. It is as false as the Opposition itself in the circumstances surrounding this debate. This Bill will simply allow the Government to reallocate from the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the Loan Fund part of the expenditures of the Department of Defence which have already been authorised in Supply Act (No. 1) 1975-76 which was introduced earlier this year and subsequently included in the Appropriation Bills of 1975-76. The Supply Bill which contained this defence expenditure was passed by this Parliament and this is now only a machinery measure to make available finance that is not available at the present time in the Consolidated Revenue Fund. It is a situation that all governments have at some time or other been faced with, and, as I said earlier, it is a situation with which governments in the future also will be faced. 
Let us examine again what will happen when this Bill has passed this place and is enacted. When the Bill is enacted the Treasurer will move an amendment to Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1975-76, and that amendment will permit defence expenditure specified in this Bill to be charged to the Loan Fund. The exercise is as simple as that. But we find that during the second reading debate the Opposition asked for answers to 1 8 questions. It is preposterous and unheard of in the history of this Parliament for a simple loan Bill, which is a machinery measure, to be frustrated in its passage through this House by the asking and answering of 1 8 questions. I quote an example of the questions and answers to remind honourable senators opposite of their exercise in futility. The first question was: 
What is the reason for the urgency of the Bill? (Why should it be passed before the Appropriation Acts for 1975-76? Is it needed urgently because the Government is running out of cash balances and needs to borrow to finance expenditures?). 
The answer which was promptly supplied by the Government was: 
A Loan Act of the type proposed cannot be retrospective in its effect; it can only apply to Defence spending from the date on which the Act receives Royal Assent. The Bill aims to meet a prospective deficit in the CRF by transferring Defence expenditures from that Fund to the Loan Fund. 
It is as simple as that. The answer continues: 
On the basis ofthe estimates shown in Table 3 on page 10 of Budget Document No. 4, the currently estimated CRF deficit, in the absence of the proposed Act, is $ 1 , 1 52m. This compares with total proposed appropriations for 1975-76 under the heading Department of Defence of $1,71 1 m. A large proportion of Defence expenditure will, therefore, need to be charged to Loan Fund. Given that the effect of the Act cannot be retrospective it needs to be enacted at an early date to permit charging of Defence expenditure to Loan Fund to commence. 
Early introduction of a Loan Act is not unusual where a need to charge a substantial proportion of Defence expenditure to Loan Fund is anticipated. For example, the Loan Act 1967 was introduced on 6 September 1967. 
The Bill should be passed before the Appropriation Bills 1975-76 for two reasons: 
The figures set out above imply that a proportion of Defence expenditure authorized in Supply Act (No. 1) 1975-76 will need to be charged to Loan Fund; and 
as stated in my Second Reading Speech it will be necessary to amend Appropriation Act (No. I ) 1975-76 to make it subject to the provisions of this Act. 
So the answers went on in reply to the 18 unnecessary questions. It was an elementary exercise in parliamentary accounting. The Loan Bill was a machinery measure seeking temporary moneys to be transferred from the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the Loan Fund to meet Defence expenditure. Yet we find honourable senators opposite pontificating and trying to convince the electorate at large that something wrong was going on with the accountancy in the Government, that there was misappropriation, that we were acting unconstitutionally, and that we were acting from outside the framework of the Treasury regulations, the Public Accounts Act and of the Auditor-General. The answers to these questions and remarks made during this debate have told the world at large that all these claims made by the Opposition, just as those that have been made in relation to all other money Bills- have been false. It makes one wonder what is behind all this frustration and all this delay. What is behind all this humbug and the creating of innuendo by the purveyors of misery and those who are shattering confidence in the community by making false charges that the 
Government is wobbling and shaking as far as its financial transactions are concerned? 
As I have said in this place before one can only believe that the Opposition feels that it has a divine right, like the Stuarts, to be in Government and not in Opposition. It cannot wait to get over to the Government side. The Opposition is hanging on to any pretence- because it has the weight of numbers in this place- to try to force an election. The only thing wrong is that it cannot make up its mind when to do it or whether to do it at all. The Opposition would have us believe, from the way the Leader of the Opposition is portrayed in the Press and by the Liberal Party machine, that he is the great Messiah who will lead us to the Promised Land. He is the strong, tough leader who by sheer industry, brilliance and capacity has emerged from among his own followers in the Liberal Party to become Leader of the Opposition. That is the impression which the Opposition is trying to give. A very high ranking member of the Liberal Party Opposition, not in this place but in the other place, told me that the Leader,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, is filling a role- no more nor less- no different from that of  Mr Snedden, Mr McMahon, Mr Gorton  or of any leader before him. He is there because he may be a vote catcher. 
If his timing for an election is too soon he will get the chopper. If it is too late he will get the chopper. But the startling fact is, I have been reliably informed, that instead of  Mr Fraser  being his own decision maker he relies on Kooyong- and I am not referring to the flat of a well-known and respected honourable senator.  Mr Fraser  relies on the advice of none other than RGM himself.  Mr Fraser  is continually, daily and on many occasions on the telephone, seeking advice and instructions as to what his tactics or strategy should be. In fact, I am reliably informed by this leading member of the Liberal Party in the House of Representatives that  Mr Fraser  is a de facto leader of the Opposition and that the orders are coming from Kooyong, from RGM 
I shall deal with that later on. Do not let us change the subject. I suggest that the honourable senator cultivate that very important virtue of patience. I think it is well for everybody to know about this matter. This is the dilemma the Opposition is in. It is waiting for its leader to make a decision. So every time a money Bill, such as this Loan Bill, comes before the Senate we have frustration, delaying and false claims. The Opposition thought it had a vote catcher. That is why it elevated  Mr Fraser  to the leadership. But no longer is there any decision making within the confines of its own party room. As a result of his leadership there is a pipeline to Kooyong and to RGM. All the decision making, the future proposals and the strategy of the Liberal Party are being decided down there. 
During the course of a debate this afternoon certain accusations were made by a Liberal lady senator,  Senator Martin,  who sits opposite, regarding some sort of an attack on a colleague from Queensland,  Senator Keeffe. Senator Martin  claimed that the performance of the Queensland Government in the field of mining and minerals was exemplary and that  Senator Keeffe,  as a Queenslander, should be proud of it. I want to connect the Queensland performance in the mining industry, in the way of royalties, to this debate, because the matter has some bearing on the size of the deficit. I claim that if Queensland's performance in relation to royalties and mining had been as suggested by the Grants Commission the deficit would have been lower than $2,798m. I suggest that  Senator Martin  do some research. For her edification I refer her to a speech I made in the Senate on 16 May 1972. 1 said: 
The submission by the Queensland Government came under very strong criticism in another section of the Commonwealth Grants Commission's report. I repeat that this is not an attempt to make political capital in the sense of criticism being made by one political party of another; it is criticism that has been published in the Commonwealth Grants Commission report, a Federal Government document, lt expresses the view of top public servants and members of the Federal Treasury. The Commission had something to say about Queensland's submission that it wanted additional cash grants. On page 1 1 paragraph 24 of the report in relation to royalties it states: 
The Commonwealth Treasury suggested that the value of mining output might give some indication of capacity to raise mining royalties. This would suggest that Queensland 's capacity is above standard; and as the royalties collected per head of population in Queensland are below the average per capital for the standard States it would appear that Queensland makes a relatively low effort in this field. 
Why did they make a relatively low effort in this field? Last year 6.S million tons of bauxite was mined at Weipa at a cost of $37m. The royalties which came to the Queensland Government from that $37m worth of bauxite amounted to $412,000 or 1 per cent. The royalty rate is 5c a ton for bauxite produced for local use and 10c a ton for that exported. Yet, just across the Gulf at Gove the Commonwealth Government negotiated rates of 10c to 20c for local use and 30c for export. That is 3 times the pittance accepted by the Country-Liberal Party Government of Queensland. 
It is only in recent months, due to the efforts of the Federal Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  that the royalties have been increased. If this performance had been adopted in Queensland in previous years then this 
Government in the national capital would not be facing deficits of $2,798m.  Mr Deputy President,  I thank you for your indulgence in allowing me to reply to the criticism that I felt was levelled unfairly this afternoon at a Queensland senator. At another time and in a more appropriate debate I hope I will have the opportunity to answer some of the false claims that were made this afternoon by  Senator Martin  against  Senator Keeffe. 
I return to the Loan Bill 1975. As I said at the outset, it is a machinery Bill and the only remarkable thing about the debate that has gone on and been prolonged in this chamber is that the Bill is being debated at all. It is a machinery measure that has been followed by governments in the past and will be followed by the governments in the future. It makes provision for temporary financing of defence expenditures. I wish that the Opposition would forget all about its frustrating and delaying tactics in its unnecessary probing of the money Bills. The same situation applies in relation to the Estimates debates, where money matters are being discussed. One honourable senator during an Estimates debate the other evening asked were there any spare tables and chairs in a particular office and, if so, what was being done with them. An appropriation of some $129m was being considered and an honourable senator wanted to know were there any unused tables or chairs in this office or any other office and what was happening to them. That sort of frustration is not good for any government, whether the Labor Party is in government or the parties on the other side of the chamber are in government. It is about time that the Opposition behaved itself, acted responsibly, as  Her  Majesty's Opposition should, and allowed this Bill to be passed and the Government to get on with governing. 
I am prepared to accept  Senator Martin  on face value this evening. She has donned the shining armour and mounted the prancing steed, and become the champion for those who have been wronged. I will accept her on that basis. I ask her for assistance to help me correct a wrong that has been happening in Queensland for some time. I have made this appeal previously to the National Country Party senators but without success. I refer to the secret rail freight concessions system that operates in Queensland at the present moment. Up until 1957 when there was a Labor government occupying the treasury bench in Queensland, governments entered into contract freight arrangements with companies. Having done so, they were published in the railway weekly notice and posted on the notice board of every railway institution throughout the State. But since 1957 with the advent of the National Country Party-Liberal Party coalition Government in Queensland, secret rail freight concessions have been given to companies in Queensland and the information is not published or available for anyone to see, including companies in opposition to the companies that have been given the freight rate concessions. 
This is a matter of grave concern to a great number of people in Queensland. It is, I may say, a matter of grave concern to the States Grants Commission which has commented adversely upon this system of secret rail freight concessions operating in Quensland. I think that it would be fair at this stage to say that the system was the brain child ofthe National Country Party section of the coalition. Pressure on the Government became so strong and views were expressed so loudly throughout Queensland about this iniquitous state of affairs that in 1968 the Government of Queensland was forced into the position of engaging a firm of management consultants by the name of Beckingsale to conduct an inquiry into the secret rail freight concessions operating in Queensland. That report was finished in 1971 and was handed to the Premier of Queensland. 
It has never been tabled in the Parliament and nobody, no matter how enthusiastic his endeavours have been, has been able to see the findings contained in that report. I think it is a bad state of affairs and something that should not be tolerated by anyone who claims to be a good Queenslander. The Queensland members of the Senate on this side of the chamber have been endeavouring for 3, 4 or 5 years to find out just what is contained in that report and how one can obtain a copy of it so that we might be able to add our endeavours towards wiping out in Queensland this secrecy about rail freight concessions. I appeal to  Senator Martin  publicly in this Senate, as she is the new found champion of those who have been wronged, to use her endeavours. I do not know whether the Country Party senators here have even tried because my appeal to them has fallen on deaf ears. I ask  Senator Martin  to use her endeavours to find out about the Beckingsale inquiry into secret rail freight concessions in Queensland. I await anxiously any response from her. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Police and Customs. No doubt the Minister has seen or heard of Press reports of a substantial amount of cannabis having been found by a fisherman on a lonely island off Geraldton on the western coast of Western Australia. Can the Minister provide the Senate with any further details concerning this find? More importantly, what action is being taken by his Department to prevent the smuggling of drugs in remote areas along the Australian coastline? 
-Is the Minister for Agriculture aware that the recent Queensland Budget increased rail freights by 40 per cent? What impact will this have on the grain industry which has invested a lot of money to ensure the efficient handling of grain transport by train? 
My question is addressed to the Postmaster-General. I have received a number of representations concerning the re-organisation of postal districts within the framework of the Australian Postal Commission. Will the Minister advise whether any decisions have been reached on this matter? 
I address my question to the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Has the Minister seen articles in the  Daily Telegraph  and the  Australian  reporting his reply to a question which he answered yesterday relating to unemployment benefits? I am interested to know whether the Minister considers these reports to be accurate versions of his answer. 
-I bring up the report from Estimates Committee C together with the minutes of proceedings. I also table the  Hansard  report of the evidence taken. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General a question concerning  Senator Greenwood's  assertion that  Mr Justice  Murphy had been guilty of disgraceful conduct in connection with the High Court's decision on Senate representation for the Territories. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether there have been any other examples of judges who had formerly been members of the Australian Parliament sitting on cases involving legislation with which they may have been directly or indirectly involved as members of Parliament? 
In addressing myself to the Appropriation Bills (No. 1 ) and (No. 2), I should like to say that in view of the announcement made this afternoon by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  much of the merit has gone out of this debate. But in view of the examinations of the Senate Estimates Committees I should like to place some comments on the record so that they will be there for future reference. Each year the Senate Estimates Committees obtain from the departments an explanation of every item of expenditure contained in Appropriation Bills (No. 1) and (No. 2). When the Estimates are being examined the departmental officers are asked searching questions. The items of expenditure come under close scrutiny. The proposed expenditures are dealt with division by division, subdivision by subdivision, and item by item if that is found to be necessary. 
I believe that it has been generally accepted that the answers to questions have been of quality. When answers to questions were not forthcoming at the time, promises that answers would be given in writing have always been honoured, so much so that the reports of the various Estimates Committees were subsequently presented to the Senate and adopted without question. But what do we find has happened this year? This year we experienced lengthy, tedious and monotonous questions repeated over and over again by Opposition senators. They made a farce of the Estimates Committees' examinations. I think searching questions could be justified if the information being sought from the departments related to amounts to be spent in respect of which it was considered that insufficient care had been taken in accounting for public funds, if the principle of appropriating money had not been followed, if the questions related to an unexplained disparity in the estimates of this year compared with the estimates in previous years, or if questions were asked because vague or unconvincing explanations were given. If these were the reasons for the questioning, I believe it would have been a most acceptable course to all concerned. That surely would justify the questioning and it would be the undeniable right of any senator to ask questions. This practice has been followed in previous years when examining the proposed expenditure of departments and if it had been followed on this occasion it would have been most acceptable. On this occasion departmental officers- this is the point I am emphasising- were asked: 
Does the increase in the appropriation for salary and postal and telephone charges include the increases that have taken place since 1 July up to the time that the Appropriation Bills were printed? What is the amount of these increases? 
Surely this must be the last straw in the Senate Estimates Committees examination procedures. It discloses an ignorance by Opposition senators of accounting procedures. If they knew the procedures they would not have asked those questions in the first place. One wonders why Opposition senators pursued this line of questioning. They have claimed that the expenditures and the deficit in the Budget were false because the documents did not show these increases. What tommyrot. What humbug and what hypocrisy. It must be that honourable senators opposite do not know what they are talking about to make a claim that the deficit and the expenditure documents are phoney and have been jockeyed up because they did not show the increases in salary, postal or telephone charges that have come to light since 1 July-after the preparation of the appropriation documents. What a strange submission to make. I can recall that after Opposition senators asked these questions they hurriedly made notes and calculated that these increases would amount to millions of dollars. They then claimed that they had something on the Government, something which was reprehensible. They claimed that the deficit was incorrect and that the expenditure documents were false. Such a claim makes the examination of the Estimates a farce. I cannot stress that too strongly. It reduces the parliamentary procedures to a mockery. In fact, the performance of Opposition senators in this area was despicable and shameful. It makes the proceedings of this Parliament deplorable. The principles for examination of the Estimates this year are the same principles that have been adopted since Federation and the same principles which were in existence when the Opposition was in Government. 
Last night I told you,  Senator Marriott,  that if there was an aristocracy of oafs and fools you would be an emperor. The principles to which I have referred have been accepted by the Department of the Treasury, the Auditor-General and the Joint Committee of Public Accounts since Federation. The same principles were in existence for the 23 years during which the Opposition senators were in government. It is specifically laid down that the closing date for the original Estimates- or as they are more commonly known today Appropriation Bills (No. 1) and (No. 2)- is 30 April. That date is also the date of preparation of the Appropriation Bill documents. I say this for the edification of  Senator Baume  particularly and  Senator Carrick,  who are on record as having made statements which are in conflict with these principles, that Treasury Direction 16.9 sets out the principles to be followed. It is important that these principles should appear in the record so that some of the false claims of Opposition senators can be answered and so that I can educate those opposite who are not aware of the existence of this direction. For the benefit of the record I should like to refer honourable senators to the  Parliamentary Handbook on Commonwealth Financial Affairs  which states under which subdivisions amounts included in the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) are normally shown. Under the heading of 'Annual Estimates of Expenditure', it states: 
The annual estimates of expenditure which have been endorsed by the Government form the bases for preparation of the Appropriation Bills and the Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure. 
Amounts included in the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) are normally shown under the following sub-divisions. 
'Salaries and Payments in the Nature of Salary'. 
'Administrative Expenses'. 
'Other Services', or such other appropriate heading approved by the Treasury- this sub-division is designed to provide for payments which will arise from a department's responsibilities but which are distinct from its administrative expenses, e.g., contributions to semi-  governmental and international bodies . . . 
Amounts to be included in the Appropriation Bill (No. 2) are normally sought under the following headings: 
Capital Works and Services', which, as a general rule include: 
Acquisition of Sites and Buildings. 
Building and Works. 
Plant and Equipment. 
Advances and Loans. 
Payments To or For the States' . . . 
Other Services', for requirements in pursuance of new policies of Government not authorised by special legislation and for which provision has not previously been made. 
Now we come to the most important point of my contribution, the one that gives the lie direct and exposes the Opposition senators for what they are in their humbugging during questioning conducted by the Senate Estimates Committees. The following principles are laid down by the Treasury and by the Joint Committee of Public Accounts and accepted by the Auditor-General and the Public Service Board. It is in accordance with these principles that all estimates are prepared, The following general principles are observed by departments when preparing estimates. Rather than go through the whole procedure, I will address my remarks to the questions that came under most consideration. They were questions in regard to increased postal and telephone charges and the estimating of salaries and wages. The document states: 
Estimates for all items of expenditure must represent a realistic assessment of the sum that is expected to be spent having regard to the information available to the department at the time of preparation. Estimates for supplies and services are based upon current or known costs and provision is not made for possible rises in costs. Where an item is for a type of recurring expense, e.g., office services or travelling and subsistence, it is appropriate to budget on the basis of experience. 
Estimates must not include amounts for proposals which are so far from firm that it is not possible to form any real estimate of what payments, if any, will be made in the financial year. 
The document goes on to deal with wages. I think that this is important for the ears of Opposition senators. It states: 
The salary provision for permanent officers (except First Division officers) and temporary employees (Item 01) is the total estimated cash payment for the year on the factors then known. 
Funds are included to meet the estimated full year cost of staff actually employed at 1 July plus the cost of employing further staff needed to fill approved positions which may be vacant at 1 July, subject, of course, to any staff ceiling that is imposed by the Government from time to time. 
Probably this paragraph is more important. It /states: 
No provision is  permittted  for future salary or wage increases- the estimates must be made on the rates of pay as known on I July. If the Public Service Arbitrator or other competent authority awards an increase in rates of pay subsequent to that date, the Treasurer funds the increased cost from the Advance to the Treasurer pending the inclusion of the amounts in the Appropriation Bill (No. 3). If the increased rates are not known by the time that Bill is introduced the Advance to the Treasurer provides the necessary appropriation cover and the expenditure is reported to Parliament after the close of the financial year in the 'Statement of Heads of Expenditure of amounts charged thereto pursuant to S.36A of the Audit Act 1 90 1 - 1 969 '. 
Surely it is crystal clear to the Opposition senators that if they had taken the time off to study the Treasury regulations, the procedures of the Public Accounts Committee and the requirements of the Auditor-General and the Public Service Board they would not have entered into that exercise of futility that they did throughout the Senate Estimates Committees' examinations, trying to create the impression that the Government jockeyed up the documents, that the expenditure documents were false and that the deficit of $2,798m outlined in the Budget papers was also false. I feel that if honourable senators opposite will take time off to read the financial documents they will see for themselves how they have endeavoured to mislead the Senate by making these false accusations. Of course, in the Treasury regulations provision is made for new liabilities incurred after the closing dates of Appropriation Bills (No. 1) and (No. 2) which some people call the original Estimates. As I said earlier, these are regarded as charges to the Advance to the Treasurer pending additional Estimates, usually Appropriation Bills (No. 3) and (No. 4), which usually close in March, in the latter half of the financial year. It is in this period that the increases in salaries and the increases in postal and telephone charges are examined by the Estimates Committees in the Senate. They are not examined in their consideration of the Estimates of Appropriation Bills (No. 1 ) and (No. 2) as the uneducated and unknowing Opposition senators were endeavouring to do last week. They should have reserved their examinations, had they known what they were talking about, until the consideration of the Estimates and Appropriation Bills (No. 3) and (No. 4), or whatever numbers they may be, by the Senate. 
There is also a provision- this is the principle that seemed to escape the attention of honourable senators opposite- for appropriation Acts to cover emergency expenditure. For instance, they could result from the Darwin cyclone or the Derwent Bridge disaster which last year were dealt with under Appropriation Bills (No. 3 ) and (No. 4). Having said that, it explodes the hypocrisy of the Opposition during the Estimates examinations. I recall the bewilderment at that time on the faces of the Opposition senators when it was explained to them by departmental officers that questions they were asking were more or less out of order and had no relevance to the Estimates that were before them for examination - 
They wanted to be courteous. But honourable senators opposite did not do their own reputation any good as senators in the eyes of the departmental officers because they knew what they were about. The position was explained to honourable senators.  Mr President,  I wish that you could have seen the look of bewilderment on the faces of Opposition senators when it was explained to them that the appropriations prepared in April and examined in October did not include salary increases and service increased costs granted after 1 July. 
If anyone thumbs through the  Hansard  record of the Senate Estimates Committee he will see that it is clearly evident that honourable senators opposite did not know what they were about. Possibly the honourable senator who interjects was the worst offender. Instead of getting his coaching from  Senator Carrick  I think that the honourable senator wants to look to someone better equipped in the accounting procedures. The honourable senator should try to get some advice from  Senator Cotton, Senator Guilfoyle  or  Senator Wright.  They were the only honourable senators who did not make the same unpardonable mistake that the honourable senator made by exposing to the departmental officers that he did not know what he was talking about. So when we were examining these Estimates- as I said, there was that look of bewilderment on the faces of Opposition senators- the thought struck me that the time might be opportune to consider recommendations that were made in the Eighteenth Report of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. That Committee reported to the Parliament on 1 1 November 1954 along these lines. It is a recommendation that might be worthy of Opposition support. It deals with the presentation of the Estimates to Parliament before the beginning of the financial year. Incidentally, the Joint Committee of Public Accounts at that time was chaired by the distinguished Professor Bland. The recommendations are these: 
The Estimates of expenditure should be presented to the Parliament in time to permit it to complete its consideration of them before the beginning of the financial year. 
The further question of when the Budget should be presented to the Parliament was considered having regard to the divergent budgetary practices followed by overseas countries, and the views of witnesses. All Members agree that the Budget should be presented earlier than at present. Some Members believe that it would be to the public advantage if the Budget (including the Estimates of revenue) were brought down, together with the Estimates of expenditure, during the first part of May ... in time to allow of their approval by the Parliament before the beginning of the financial year. Others, believing that it would not be possible to collect all the data essential for estimating the Revenue with the necessary degree of accuracy, if the Budget were presented before the beginning of the financial year, would be content with the British practice where the Budget is presented during the first week of the new financial year . . . 
Further on in the Committee's proposals the following comment appears: 
. the Departmental estimates would be in the hands of the Treasury by IS March and the Estimates of expenditure would be presented to the Parliament in early May. 
That would eliminate all the confusion that has been caused among Opposition senators because they could then consider the Estimates that were before them as they would cover the period in which they were taken. The report continues: 
The legislation, other than the Appropriation Bills and dealing with expenditure, could be adopted during MayJuneJuly. The Parliament customarily meets in May and June, but in the past, the necessity for frequent July meetings has not arisen. 
The only reason that I can ascertain why it has not met in July is the winter conditions in Canberra, but with the modern facilities that are now available in Parliament House, the winter conditions should no longer be an excuse for members of Parliament from either House not assembling in Canberra during the month of July. 
Let me summarise the position. In the first place there were false claims by the Opposition senators that the expenditure documentsAppropriation Bill (No. 1) and Appropriation Bill (No. 2)- were false because they did not contain provision for increases in salaries and increases in postal and telephone charges. Of course they did not include them because they are not supposed to include them. Those increased charges are appropriated for later on in the Advance to the Treasurer or in the Additional Estimates. The only people who did not know that they were not included in these Estimates were some Opposition senators. 
I turn to the second point that I have made. I think I have outlined to honourable senators the salient points in the Treasury Direction which governs and lays down the principles for estimating, that is, Treasury Direction 16.9. It lays down the principles as to how to deal with Appropriation Bill (No. 1) and Appropriation Bill (No. 2), the Advance to the Treasurer and the Additional Estimates. I suggest that certain honourable senators on the other side of the chamber, who will for the moment remain nameless, should get themselves a copy of 
Treasury Direction 16.9 from the Library and study it so that they will be prepared when we get around to examining the next lot of Estimates. 
I believe that there is a lot of merit in the recommendations advanced in its eighteenth report by the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, under the chairmanship of Professor Bland. That report was introduced in 1954 but was not considered by the Treasury or anyone in the Parliament until 1968, when Treasury officials advised that it was not for the Treasury to take any action to amend the timing of the presentation of the Estimates or the Budget Papers. That was a matter of policy and of ministerial direction. But between the years 1954 and 1968- one could take it right through until 1972- when the present Opposition formed the Government of this country it did nothing in the way of considering the implementation of the recommendations contained in that report of the Joint Committee on Public Accounts. 
Having said that, I want to say only one or two more things before I sit down. I cannot help thinking of the danger inherent in the new tactics being adopted by the Opposition, its attitude, its strategy and the way in which it has debated the Supply Bills that have come before this chamber. The Opposition has given the same treatment to the Loan Bill, which was before this chamber today and which has been before this chamber periodically for over 3 months. There has been a change of strategy in relation to it and it is now finally going to be opposed. In fact, one could cite the Opposition's treatment of and behaviour towards the handling of any money Bill in this place.  Senator Carrick,  particularly in his last speech on the Loan Bill, has criticised this Government as being phoney, as jockeying and forging the expenditure papers and as being misleading in its statements in the Budget Papers. He based his argument on a wrong method of estimating. I have shown to the chamber this evening that the correct procedures are contained in Treasury Direction 16/9 and that they are not as thought by  Senator Carrick.  I believe that it is incumbent upon him some time before this Parliament rises to correct the record and to explain to the House that he was under a wrong impression when he misled the Senate and charged this Government with falsifying financial documents. 
A very good support for him at the time was  Senator Baume.  As I said earlier, I know where  Senator Baume  is getting his coaching from. He should take a tip and change ground and get some coaching from  Senator Guilfoyle, Senator Cotton  or  Senator Wright.  They know more about accounting procedures than  Senator 
Carrick does. The only claim to fame of which I am aware of  Senator Carrick  is that he was the State Secretary of the Liberal Party of Australia in New South Wales and was so for many years. On the death of the late Prime Minister Harold Holt the heads of the Liberal Party looked to New South Wales for a successor but they could not find one because during the period in which  Senator Carrick  had hold of the reins in New South Wales he surrounded himself with old men like  Mr Bury, Mr Turner, Sir John  Cramer and  Mr McMahon.  As a consequence the Liberal Party's officials had to look to another State for young, industrious men who may have been able to carry out the duties of Leader of the Party. That is the contribution that the man whom  Senator Baume  is allowing to advise him made to the Liberal Party during the period when he was the State Secretary. If he had allowed young Liberals to come on behind him the Liberal Party may now have had a Leader from that State. I appeal to  Senator Carrick  and to  Senator Baume  to do the right thing and the honourable thing in this place and stand up and admit to the Senate that they were wrong in the procedures that they were following in the examination of the Estimates, that they had not done their homework, that they were in error and that they will not make the same mistake again. 
Before I conclude I want to say that it would be a bad day for this country if extreme views similar to those that have been expressed on one side of the Parliament today were to be followed by similar extreme views being expressed on the other side, and we had to look forward to a succession of what can only be described as revolutionary and counter-revolutionary atmospheres. I think that one of the greatest reproaches that can be offered of the Opposition is to say that it has brought us within measurable distance of that unfortunate state of affairs and I think that the Opposition owes it to the country to think over the matter. 
I address my question to the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. I was interested in his answer to a question from  Senator Baume  regarding new pension rates. Will the Minister inform the Senate when the proposed increases in pensions will come into effect? 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral whether his attention has been drawn to a letter in a Melbourne newspaper in which it was suggested that telephone installation and retal fees be abolished and the charge for local calls doubled, a proposition in which I am personally interested. Has the Australian Telecommunications Commission properly investigated the proposal and has it arrived at a decision? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs been drawn to the adoption by the Third Committee of the United Nations of a resolution that Zionism is a form of racism and racial discrimination? Can the Minister assure the Senate that Australia did not support this resolution? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is he aware that the Joint Committee on Public Accounts invited the Premier of Queensland, the Honourable Joh Bjelke-Petersen, to forward to it a copy of his official Press release and a submission supporting his statement on the subject of alleged mismanagement and wastage of public moneys by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in the Torres Strait area? Is he aware also that the Premier forwarded a copy of his Press release but refused to tender a written submission to the Committee supporting his statement? So that we can hear both sides of the argument, can the Minister tell the Senate whether the Islanders have discussed the Premier's charges? If so, can the Minister tell us what the Islanders themselves said about the controversy ignited by the Premier's allegations? 
Has the Minister for Social Security seen an article in today's Melbourne  Sun  which reports that the Budget allocation of $90,000 to the Australian Council of Social Service represents a 75 per cent cut in the amount of funds allocated to ACOSS in the last financial year? Will the Minister advise the Senate whether this report is accurate and whether he will be making more funds available to ACOSS? 
My question is addressed to the Special Minister of State. On Tuesday, when the Minister introduced the States Grants Bill, the States Grants (Special Assistance) Bill and the Local Government Grants Bill, he expressed the Government's keenness to receive early passage of these 3 pieces of legislation. Am I correct in assuming that by way of special grant $36. 3m was provided for Queensland, $2. 5m was provided for South Australia, and over $79m was provided for local authorities throughout Australia? Will the Minister say why he was keener than usual to secure the early passage of this legislation? 
My question is addressed to the Special Minister of State. I refer to the report of the Committee of Inquiry on Museums and National Collections on which served a valued and former great trade union leader in Queensland,  Mr Frank  Waters. The report was tabled last week and, among other things, recommended a national aviation museum being established in a growth centre such as AlburyWodonga. Will the Minister assure the Senate that before any decision is taken on this matter the Government will give every consideration to other centres and take into account the claims of Queensland for such a museum, preferably at Brisbane? 
Does the Minister representing the Treasurer agree that the new savings bonds, plus the $775m compulsory subscription that the trading banks had to put into bonds, mean that some $ 1,500m has gone into bonds recently? Is it a fact that this borrowing will cost the Government 10 per cent per annum or about $ 150 m a year in interest that will have to be paid by the taxpayer. I also ask is this not an enormous waste of money, particularly by a 
Government which claims to be reining in expenditure, when it is known that borrowings from the Reserve Bank of Australia cost the Treasury nothing in interest because the profits of the Reserve Bank go back into Treasury funds? 
-Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that seasonally adjusted trading bank deposits in the December quarter were $ 15,080m, a rise of 1.3 per cent on the September quarter? Is the Minister also aware that in the December quarter prices rose by a record 5.6 per cent thereby costing Australian business that much more money to finance stock and turnover? Do not these figures represent a shrinkage of 4.3 per cent in the real and effective volume of money in the December quarter and not an excessive growth of money as claimed by  Mr Lynch? 
Has the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development received a communication from the Surfers Paradise Chamber of Commerce criticising the Federal Government for repudiating its policy on tourism? Is it a fact that the Chamber of Commerce to which I have referred said that the national Liberal Party's federal tourism policy could prove to be merely an election gimmick in the poorest taste? Will the Minister inform the Senate if it is a fact that the Government proposes to abolish all assistance to the tourist industry? 
Before I commence my main remarks, I should like you,  Mr Deputy President,  to convey to  Senator Laucke  my congratulations on his elevation to the high office of  President  of the Senate. Last week the Senate conferred on  Senator Laucke  the highest office that it can confer on any of its members. Knowing  Senator Laucke  as I do, I feel perfectly confident that he will discharge the duties of his office with dignity and with justice. I would also take the opportunity to congratulate you,  Mr Deputy President,  on your appointment as  Chairman  of Committees. I hope that your tenure of office will be a happy one, even though a short one. I say that without any reference to personalities. 
Last week we heard some splendid maiden speeches in this chamber. I believe that tomorrow and the day after we will hear some more contributions from honourable senators who will be making their maiden speeches. I only hope that when the honourable senators who have made their maiden speeches are in their party rooms they will endeavour to persuade their parties to adopt the ideals that they expressed in their speeches. If they succeed they will be worthy members of the Senate. 
Before proceeding further I feel that I should put the record right as far as  Senator Jessop  is concerned. We heard a great discourse about solar energy. One could be forgiven for thinking that the honourable senator had spent too much time out in the sun, because he said that under the Australian Labor Government 150 000 small businesses went to the wall. He is an optometrist by trade. I think he should prescribe for himself a pair of glasses, particularly in this International Year for the Blind, unless he falls into the category of people about whom it can be said that there are none so blind as those who can see and do not want to see. The number of small businesses which have gone to the wall, to use  Senator Jessop  's expression, is not 150 000, as he erroneously and misleadingly claimed. The figures which the Treasury has supplied are as follows: In 1972, 2460 small businesses collapsed when a Liberal government was in power. In 1973 the figure was 1800. In 1974 it was 1400. In 1975 it was 2100. There is a big difference between those figures and the claim of 150 000 which was made by  Senator Jessop. 
Someone once described the rhinoceros as a wicked animal because when attacked it defended itself. I submit that we of the Australian Labor Party find ourselves in a somewhat similar position at present because since we were elected to government in 1972 we have been threatened with a type of political terrorism that has been unknown in this country. To honourable senators opposite I say: Just think what you achieved on 11 November 1975. You achieved all that could possibly have been achieved as a result of a successful civil war. You achieved the same results as were achieved as a result of a civil war at the time of the Great Rebellion. By their actions honourable senators opposite will be known to history as having established the Governor-General and, to a lesser extent, the Senate as the most autocratic, the most unchecked and the most unbalanced authority in the whole of the Western world. 
The gory details of the deplorable proceedings leading to that eventful day and the eventual plundering of the Parliament have been adequately and eloquently dealt with in the speeches of my colleagues who have, spoken in this debate before me. This evening I do not propose to say anything more on that subject except that I did not think in my wildest dreams that the Governor-General would have acted in the manner in which he did. I may best express it by telling the Senate that I addressed a good gathering in Chifley Square at Maryborough a week before the eventful day. At that time Government members were travelling the length and breadth of this continent to tell the electors the truth and to prepare them for what was likely to happen. At the conclusion of the meeting the  chairman  invited questions and a questioner asked me whether I thought the Governor-General would sack the Prime Minister. I said that it could not possibly happen and it certainly would not. I based my assumption on the fact that it had happened only twice in British history. It first happened when Charles I .sacked the reigning Prime Minister, which was the start of democracy. Honourable senators know the fate of Charles I- he was beheaded. It happened again when King George III sacked Lord North, who was a bit round the bend. That happened in 1713. I said to the questioner: Do you honestly think that Queen Elizabeth would walk into the House of Commons and sack Harold Wilson, the Prime Minister of Britain? Nobody in Australia had ever entertained the thought that a thing like that was likely to happen. If the Monarch herself was not prepared to carry out that activity one could be forgiven for thinking that her representative would not act in any different way. 
My opinion is reinforced because recently the Australian Rugby Union team returned after a very succesful tour of Europe. While in England the were given a reception at Buckingham Palace by  Her  Majesty and Prince Charles. The reception was to last for 45 minutes but it lasted for 1 hour and 55 minutes. Members of that team told me on their return that one could draw no other conclusion from the conversations they had at Buckingham Palace but that the Queen of England herself would not have acted in the same manner as her representative, the Governor-General of Australia,  Sir John  Kerr. Not only has  Sir John  Kerr acted in a most unAustralian and unprecedented manner but he has also been a serious embarrassment to the Monarch whom he represents in this country. 
As a result of all this there can be no doubt that the Government has come into office in a murky atmosphere. Government members feel uncomfortable I know they do- and that is why they do not like being reminded of what happened. In all the Labor Party has had truth and principle on its side and there can be no doubt that history will treat us much more kindly than the electorate did. Of course at the general election we received a serious setback but we will fight back just as we have fought back previously. After all, are we not the oldest major political Party in this country? We will still be here when the Liberals and the National Country Party are no longer with us and have changed their names for the umpteenth time. Government senators should not deceive themselves by thinking that their victory at the polls was an endorsement of their action in blocking Supply or an endorsement of the action of the Governor-General. Certainly it was not and they know as well as I do that it was not. 
We paid the penalty for being in office at a time of international economic recession. The fate of our Government was exactly the same as that meted out to other governments in other parts of the world which faced the polls in the same economic climate. The fate of the Labor government was the same as will be the fate meted out to governments, whether they are of a conservative, a socialist or any other persuasion, that go to the polls in the future when the world is in the grip of inflation. It is just impossible to survive in this climate of inflation and economic recession. That was the reason why the Labor Government went out of office. People will not forget what this Government when in opposition did to the popularly elected Labor Government. In time the truth will manifest itself and history will prove that the Labor Party was right. Just as history proved the Labor Party right in its opposition to the exporting of pig iron to Japan when the Liberal leader was referred to as Pig Iron Bob, in its support of independence in Indonesia, and in its stand against the phoney war in Vietnam, history will prove the Labor Party right on this occasion. When we were in opposition on those issues- at the time they were very unpopular issues- the Labor Party did not sink its principles for the sake of political expediency. 
As my colleague  Senator Brown  asks: What about all the soldiers, the teenagers, who were killed in Vietnam? Having said that let me turn to a matter of grave concern to all of us in Queensland. The Queensland coast has been lashed by an unusual number of cyclones leaving in their wake destruction, devastation and thousands of Queensland families homeless. The pattern of cyclones has been unusual during the last year. Out of every 4 cyclones detected, three have savaged the Queensland coast, whereas previously three out of four cyclones have changed course and gone out to sea. A storm which caused at least Sim worth of damage in Bundaberg and Maryborough last Sunday took the Queensland Weather Bureau- to quote what the Bureau said -'completely by surprise'. This was freely admitted by the Bureau Director,  Mr Shields.  He said that the storm had slipped through the Bureau's best section of cyclone detection network along the Queensland coast. The velocity of the winds had not been suspected an hour before they hit Bundaberg. The Mayor of Bundaberg, Alderman Nielsen, said that the storm warnings were not issued in time to alert emergency services. 
What satisfaction is this to the hundreds of families in Bundaberg who are today homeless and for whom the future holds no more than bitter hardship? All that they have saved and put together throughout their working lives has been swept away. What is the Government doing about it? Has any action been taken by the Government? How can the Government be satisfied that the cyclone detection system along the Queensland coast is adequate? It is not, as is evidenced by the Bundaberg disaster. As a senator from Queensland I ask whether the system will be corrected? Is the Government moving to prevent people from being caught unawares in the future? What proposals is the Government putting forward so that I can reassure the people of Queensland whom I represent in this chamber? 
What information can the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  who sits in this chamber give me, as a Queensland senator, so that I will know that the Government is doing everything possible for the people of Queensland? I ask the Minister: Is the equipment in use at the present time sophisticated enough to predict cyclone movements accurately? Is the present use of satellite pictures which are taken from an altitude of 800 miles or 900 miles providing satisfactory protection? Can the experts reliably predict movements and detect critical spots by this method, or do the layers of clouds quite often make the trouble spots impossible to detect when the cyclone is some 300 miles or 400 miles off the Queensland coast? At the moment, as a senator from Queensland, I have no concern in this place other than to know what the Minister and the Government are going to do for the people of Queensland in this matter. That is my only concern, and I will not rest until I am given assurances by the Minister that the Government will do something practical in this matter. 
Will the Government urgently introduce aerial cyclone reconnaissance along the lines now working most efficiently in the United States of America? I now make a positive suggestion to help the Government to strengthen cyclone protection. Aerial cyclone reconnaissance could be a function of the Royal Australian Air Force. A special squadron of 3 Orions or a special squadron of 3 similar aircraft that are functioning most successfully in the United States could be employed to detect cyclones hundreds of miles from the Australian coast and give the much needed warnings. The Orions, or some similar aircraft of the type which has proved successful in the United States, could be strengthened with highly sophisticated navigational and radar instruments. These aircraft would not wait until the cyclones were off the Queensland coast or any other coast but would actually fly into the storm 800 miles or 900 miles out to sea, dropping their instruments into the storm area and obtaining 3-dimensional pictures of what is actually happening. That is what is done in the United States of America, and it could be done here. The squadron of cyclone reconnaisance aircraft could be increased to deal wiith other possible trouble spots such as the Gulf of Carpentaria, the Northern Territory and the Western Australian coastline. 
No doubt we will hear from Government Senators the cry that the cost will be very high. But this activity could become a valuable adjunct to training in the Royal Australian Air Force. This would meet the argument that the introduction of cyclone reconnaissance squadrons would be too expensive. As a former, well-performed squadron leader in the Air Force, you,  Mr Deputy President,  will recognise the force of the argument that I am putting. Anyhow, what is expense when measured against the suffering and hardship of thousands of families who have been left destitute by cyclones? We know that aerial cyclone reconnaissance will not prevent cyclones, but by being able accurately to predict their movements, by being prepared, we will be able to minimise the amount of damage that they will cause. For what it is worth, I offer that suggestion to the Minister for Services and to the Government. I hope that they will not delay in their considerations and will come forward with some practical and better method of cyclone detection than we have had at the present time for Queensland and for the other areas that I have mentioned. 
While I am on my feet I would like to address myself briefly to the record already established by the present Government. How mean and miserable can it be? I did not believe it until I read it a second time.  Senator Guilfoyle,  the Minister for Social Security, decided to withdraw the funeral benefits for pensioners because it appeared to be of little significance. Good God! That benefit amounts to the paltry sum of $40 which is paid to the pensioner wife or husband of a deceased pensioner but subject, remember, to a shockingly stringent means test. We are told that this sum is insignificant. To the impoverished bereaved it is anything but insignificant. Its withdrawal simply will add more hardship to bitter hardship. I ask the honourable senator not to be a grave robber. If there is a spark of humanity in her, as I believe there is, let her return the benefit at the earliest possible date. The Liberal manifesto stipulates also that the means test for the age pension for people 65 years of age and older should be abolished. That is included in the manifesto but when will it occur? In the nevernever. The same department, the same Government and the same Minister have cancelled the abolition of the means test for people of 69 years of age, which was to have been introduced on 1 
July. Having done that, when can the Government be expected reliably to carry out its election promises- the promises contained in its manifesto? As I said before, on the Government's past record we can expect it in the never-never. 
I turn now to the matter of unemployment benefits. Apparently a person shall be judged by the clothes that he wears. A new system is in operation: As far as the payment of unemployment benefits by the present Government in concerned, clothes make the man. At page 56 of the Liberal Party manifesto it is stated: 
The Liberal Party is pledged to the retention of a Ministry of State which includes tourism as a major responsibility. 
I challenge any honourable senator on the Government side to show me where this gets a mention in the 25 ministries that have been listed as the Fraser administration. What about the repudiation of wage indexation? If we had time at our disposal this evening we could go on and on with these matters. I warn the Government that already the electorate is having grave misgivings about its style of Government. When the electors feel the real impact of the Government's economic policies, as my colleague,  Senator Bishop  says, the Government will be regarded as the most notorious pickpockets in the history of Australia. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (9.22)-  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I am sorry that the opportunity is not presented to me at this juncture directly in this place to congratulate the  President  on his election to the high office which has been referred to by other honourable senators, namely the office of the Presidency of the Senate. However, I have done this in private and I know that  Senator Laucke,  the  President  of the Senate, is aware of my sentiments on this because I had the singular pleasure of having him sail with me for about 10 days before the events took place last week. I know that in the close association I have had with him in the Parliament and in the confines of a small vessel under circumstances - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Mulvihill)-Order! 
I can say, I hope without affront to anyone in the Parliament, that probably he is the most experienced Chairman of Committees in this Parliament and he is a man of true and total integrity. 
I have been interested in the speeches made by honourable senators who are addressing the Senate for the first time. The occasion on which I had to address the Senate for the first time took place many years ago and I think it was a Senate of much cruder terms than it is now, at least it was of tougher character and quality than it possesses at the present moment. It was an occasion, of course, in 1951 after the double dissolution of that time. Immediately after the ceremonies were concluded- after the Governor-General's Speech had been made and all the other relevant matters relating to the Senate had been fulfilled -without any warning to me the  President  of the day said:  'Senator Cormack  to move the motion for the Address-in-Reply'. I have never been in such a sweat in my life. I had no speech prepared. I did not know what to do or to say. I stumbled along for about 10 minutes with the sweat pouring down underneath my clothes. Finally I staggered out into Kings Hall where the present Lord Casey happened to be crossing. He said: 'You look pretty worried. What is the trouble?' I said: 'I have just been called upon to make my maiden speech without any preparation, without any knowledge and without any warning.' Being the humanist he was, he said: Well look, I have had to go through this once myself. I said: 'Not under the terms under which I have undergone it'. He said: 'I have got a cure. Come down to my office.' There he picked up a tumbler and half filled it with whisky. 
That is my remembrance of my maiden speech. What I know from this is the feeling that exists in honourable senators when they first get up to make their maiden speech. It is an extraordinarily difficult task even if one is prepared. One is talking to a cold audience. The conventions provide that one is heard in silence. There is no emotive aura anywhere in the Senate. My heart always turns over when I hear any honourable senator who has to get up and make his maiden speech. So far I must confess honourable senators have made maiden speeches of an order and nature far beyond those speeches that were made in my generation. 
I have paid the obeisances that are due to the Senate and I propose now to move onto areas where undoubtedly there will be some form of acrimony. I must go back to the matters that confronted this Parliament on the occasion when  His Excellency  the Governor-General came to this place to open Parliament, which he is bound to do under the terms of the Constitution under which we all live wherever we are. In the same way, we who live here in the Senate are bound by what I have called from time to time either the statutes of the Senate' or the 'common law of the Senate'. Unless these statutes and, as it were, the common law of the Senate are obeyed we cannot live in this place. People cannot live together and conduct their businesses together unless there is some obedience paid to forms and conventions. But what happened that day, what has happened since and what in fact happened before, create an alarming situation for the young Australian electorate which is growing up. The alarming situation is that the Australian Labor Party has embarked upon an enterprise which most of its fellow socialist parties in other parts of the world have embarked upon; that is to create a one party State. A one party State exists in Queensland. One party States exist in every socialist country of the world that claims to be a socialist country. The significant character and quality of a one party State is that the Prime Minister of the day usurps the constitutional functions which should be carried out either by a Governor-General, in the case of Australia, or in the case of a republic- which  Senator James  McClelland so earnestly advocates for Australia and which  Mr Whitlam  prophesied would be established here in his own liftime- by a  President,  who would be turned into a cipher. The Prime Minister of a one party State would then become the master. 
What is further developing is that the Governor-General of Australia, who is charged with responsibilities under the Constitution, and it is not an accidental Constitution, is being vilified. He is being vilified for taking an action which he was compelled to take by the Constitution under which we live. I think the GovernorGeneral is a man who it must be acknowledged by most thinking people- and the Australian electorate seemed to think so- had to take a decision on behalf of the Australian people, however difficult it must have been for him. It was equally difficult for  Sir John  Kerr as it was for  Sir William  McKell. The oddity of this situation is that two socialist parties nominated and obtained the sovereign's consent to the appointment of a Governor-General over and above the Commonwealth of Australia, and on each occasion those men had to assume the responsibilities of the office to which they had succeeded and to which they had been appointed. On each occasion they had to make a determination which resulted in the dismissal of a government.  Sir William  McKell had to make a decision to cause a double dissolution in 1951 and  Sir John  Kerr had to make a decision to withdraw the commission of the Whitlam Government and have double dissolution. I assume those men were appointed in terms of their previous associations and when they were appointed and had to fulfil the job to which they had been appointed they were then met with circumstances which they had to resolve. 
This problem was foreseen when the Constitution of Australia was drawn up. The relevant sections of the Constitution are section 61, section 57 and section 1, of which I think I should remind honourable senators, who very rarely get back to it. Section 1 states: 
The legislative power of the Commonwealth shall be vested in a Federal Parliament, which shall consist of the Queen, a Senate, and House of Representatives, and which is herein-after called 'The Parliament, ' or 'The Parliament of the Commonwealth. ' 
Section 5 goes on to state: 
The Governor-General may appoint such times for holding the sessions of the Parliament- 
Coming to section 6 1 , it states: 
The executive power of the Commonwealth is vested in the Queen and is exerciseable by the Governor-General as the Queen's representative, and extends to the execution and maintenance of this Constitution, and of the laws of the Commonwealth. 
Going back to section 57, it lays down certain things that may happen if the Governor-General of the day is not satisfied that the Constitution is being obeyed and that the laws and statutes of the Commonwealth are being acknowledged. 
The terrible facts are that in the months preceding the double dissolution of 1 1 November the Governor-General of Australia had witnessed time after time a defiance of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia and of the statutes, laws and customs for the good order and government of this country. 
I want to say to honourable senators that the chronological series of events that took place, about which there has been an enormous amount of lying, have never been made clear. Therefore, I am going to read out some of the events that took place. I will read them out because I intend to support them with documents, which 1 shall ask leave of the Senate to table in a moment. Against the background which I have mentioned in a cursory sort of way and with which 1 do not wish to weary the Senate by traversing any more, I want to take honourable senators through the events of the day of 1 1 November. This is chronologically consecutive and it will be supported by documents which I have here and which I shall table. At 9 a.m. on 1 1 November  Mr Whitlam  and others and  Mr Fraser  and others met to discuss a political crisis. Note that. At 10 a.m.  Mr Whitlam  telephoned the Governor-General and informed him that he wished to call at Government House to advise an election for half the Senate. At 10 a.m.  Mr Whitlam  telephoned Government House and informed the Governor-General that he wished to attend upon him in Government House and advise him to hold an election for half the Senate. At 10.30 a.m.  Mr Whitlam  announced to Caucus that he intended to recommend to the Governor-General a half Senate election. I might add that that is from a Press statement, so there is no argument about it. That was a statement made by  Mr Whitlam.  At 1 1.40 a.m. the House of Representatives met and  Mr Fraser  moved a motion of censure on the Whitlam Government and the sitting was suspended at 12.55 p.m. At 1 p.m.  Mr Whitlam  called on the GovernorGeneral and was informed that his appointment as Prime Minister had been terminated. 
Fraser and was informed of earlier events. At 2 p.m. both Houses resumed their sitting. 
Nor a Minister. 
When did you know, Senator? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Mulvihill)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The next event to which I wish to refer occurred last week. Speaking to the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply,  Senator James  McClelland stood in this place and made a dramatic speech in which he recounted to the Senate the events, as he saw them, that took place. He said that the Governor-General had involved himself in a conspiracy and had in fact been lying. That was the essence of his speech. This comes very odd to me because  Senator James  McClelland on the occasion of which he was speaking was a member of the Executive Council. I suppose that  Senator McLaren  and other honourable senators who are involved in this problem and who know something, about it know that when a Minister of State is sworn in he is also sworn in as a member of the Executive Council. 
What is the oath that a Minister takes? Well, I do not know the precise terms of the oath; but I have been doing some investigation of this matter. I find that the oath takes 2 forms. There is the usual oath which is based on the Christian dogma, or there is the oath by affirmation. I do not know what form of the oath  Senator James  McClelland prefers; but it may be of interest to honourable senators if I read the oath that an Executive Councillor takes. Obviously this is an oath that  Senator Withers  feels very deeply, because when he was asked a question about certain matters the other day he said that he would not reply to any question that related to his oath as an Executive Councillor. Obviously  Senator Withers  is a man of principle. 
The oath that is taken by an Executive Councillor when he is sworn in, as far as I can discover, is as I will relate. The normal historical oath is:   . . public affairs of Australia ... I will not directly or indirectly reveal such matters as shall be debated in Council and committed to my secrecy, but that I will in all things be a true and faithful councillor. So help me God! 
That is the traditional oath. The oath by affirmation for an Executive Councillor, as I discover it- I think  Senator James  McClelland normally takes an oath by affirmation- is: 
As an Executive Councillor for the Commonwealth of Australia for the time being for the good management of public affairs of Australia ... I will not directly or indirectly reveal such matters as shall be debated in Council and committed to my secrecy, but that I will in all things be a true and faithful Councillor. 
Was  Senator James  McClelland a true and faithful councillor when he stood - 
Standing Orders that our Standing Orders are based. Comment on the actions of the monarchy has been accepted for many years as being in order. Far harsher reflections have been passed on the conduct of the monarchy than on anything that I said about the conduct of the Governor-General. If  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack is suggesting that everything which the Governor-General does or says is sacrosanct and above comment I suggest he is importing into our institution notions which have no warrant whatsoever in our practice. 
. as an elected member of the Executive Council of the Commonwealth of Australia for the time being for the good management of public affairs of Australia and that I will not directly or indirectly reveal such matters as shall be debated in Council and committed to my secrecy, but that I will in all things be a true and faithful Councillor. 
McClelland is again indulging in a personal explanation. All that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has done since he received the call from you and the request to proceed has been to read the affirmation which  Senator James  McClelland would have been required to take when he was sworn as a member of the Executive Council. There is nothing in that statement of fact to which  Senator James  McClelland could be raising objection. 
I have seen the write-up in the  Canberra Times  today on the new fifth edition of  Australian Senate Practice  by our  Clerk, Mr Odgers,  the printing of which we approved yesterday. He- 
I suppose the honourable senator means  Mr Odgers-  upholds the power and independence of the Senate. 
Of course the  Clerk  must uphold the power and independence of the Senate because the Constitution upholds the power and independence of the Senate. The most recent judgments of the High Court clearly demonstrate that the Senate has these powers. 
The people have made their judgment. They made their judgment in the elections following the double dissolution. They made their judgment in December of last year. They not only overwhelmingly supported the candidates of the Liberal and National Country Parties in the House of Representatives election but also returned to the Senate under various labels those people who stood before them as upholders of the Constitution and the proprieties of the Senate. In doing so they put into this place thirty-five of the honourable senators who, with the exception of one, are sitting here at the present moment. So the people have made a decision, the judges of the High Court have made a decision and the Governor-General of Australia has made a decision. Not only has the GovernorGeneral made a decision but also the people of Australia have upheld the decision that he made. 
I want to put an end to this matter once and for all. That is the reason why I sought the leave of the Senate to table a document showing in chronological order the series of events that led to the dismissal of  Mr Whitlam  and the withdrawal of his commission. I have only one regret and it is a genuine, emotional regret. It is that  Senator Wriedt,  with whom I have served in the Senate for a long time, should have had to sit at the table and suffer the indignities that he suffered because his own Prime Minister betrayed him. I close the remarks I wished to make by saying that I support the motion concerning the Address-in-Reply to the GovernorGeneral 's Speech. 
Will the Minister for Science, in the interests of the people of Queensland, consider the suggestions made in a speech by me, which is reported in yesterday's Senate  Hansard  on pages 167 to 170, in respect of aerial cyclone reconnaissance and obtain for me an early reply in view of the urgent nature of the matter? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that Specialty Greetings Pty Ltd, the largest manufacturer of greeting cards in Australia, announced a record profit of 61.6 per cent for the half year ending 3 1 December 1975? How does the Minister reconcile this with his claim, when in Opposition, that the increase in tariffs announced by the Australian Postal Commission last September would kill the traditional exchange of Christmas greetings? 

 - Mr Deputy President, I seek leave to ask the Minister for Science a question concerning the information he has just given. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I thank the Minister for Science for the information he has so speedily gathered and provided to me. Apparently he feels that the cost of introducing aerial reconnaissance is prohibitive. I ask: How does he think that cost compares with the estimated cost of the damage that has been caused by cyclones in Australia during in, say, the last 5 years? 
I ask  Senator Cotton,  in his capacity as Minister representing the Treasurer: Is it a fact that the Government borrowed $30m from Germany a week ago for the reason given by  Mr Lynch-  'to keep Australia's name before lenders'? I now ask the Minister: Is that not a very odd reason for going into debt and was not the loan unnecessary as Australia's overseas reserves are ample and it must surely increase the money supply inside Australia? 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: Is it a fact that the Government savings bond fiasco, which is costing the taxpayer $77m per annum in interest, has diverted savings away from the banks and building societies, where they were doing a good job in financing the revival of housing, and in turn has forced up interest rates? When will the Government scrap the scheme? 
-Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that the Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  last month said: 
If we can learn anything from the past it is that we cannot spend our way out of recession. 
Does the Minister agree that  Mr  Lynch, in fact, has not learnt anything from the past because the past has shown quite conclusively that recovery from recessions is due to large budget deficits and expansion of money designed to encourage spending- a policy that is proving successful in America today? 
The remarkable thing about this debate is that it is taking place at all. Some months ago, similar measures were introduced by the Labor Party when in government and these Bills were refused passage through this House. Now we see the same Bills being brought forward by the Government which is asking for their speedy passage. However, as indicated by my Leader,  Senator Wriedt,  the Opposition is not opposing the two Loan Bills that are before us. When the Labor Party, in government some 6 months ago, brought these Bills before the House a leading member of the Opposition, who is now the Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  had this to say a bout the measures: 
It is a device - 
A device, mind you-  which explicitly avoids the need for Loan Council agreement in order to fund the Government deficit. 
Honourable senators will remember also that the Liberal-Country Party senators when opposing the Bills on that occasion, found it appropriate to abuse, to misuse and to distort the constitutional and parliamentary procedures and conventions in an endeavour to corrupt and mislead the people and the Parliament. I do not need to remind the Senate of the performances of some honourable senators opposite. Honourable senators will remember that when I was  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee, it was necessary for me to expose the now Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  and  Senator Baume  for their false assumptions, their faulty reasoning, their ignorance and their lack of knowledge of the Treasury Regulations and procedures in respect of the Budget Estimates. I pointed out at the time that neither honourable senator had heard of Treasury Regulation 16/9 which lays down the guidelines for the preparation of Budget Estimates. If those honourable senators had had any knowledge of it at the time they would not have acted in the irresponsible manner in which they did. However, our convictions and opinions in respect to these measures remain what they always have been. The arguments by which we support them are therefore the same. We cannot turn, twist, change our opinions and put forward new ones every full moon as the Tories do. Someone aptly wrote some lines that should apply to the Liberal Party: 
A merciful providence fashioned them hollow 
On purpose that they might their principles swallow. 
What a change of face by the Government. What an about turn by those on the Government benches. Why is it they are now talking economic sense when, 6 months previously, they were talking economic nonsense when similar measures to the ones before us today were before the Senate? At that time, as honourable senators will recall. 22 questions were asked by people who, when asking them, claimed that they knew what they were talking about. If they had known what they were talking about, there would have been no need for them to ask the questions because they should have known the answers. But, of course, it was just another case of humbugging the Parliament and humbugging the Australian people. In addressing myself to the 2 Loan Bills that are before us, I observe that  Senator Cotton,  the Minister for Industry and Commerce who represents the Treasurer in this place, in his second reading speech said: 
However, it soon became very clear that the prospective overall deficit and the deficiency in the Consolidated Revenue Fund had been grossly under-estimated. 
Who is  Senator Cotton  trying to fool? He knows as well as I, and every other commonsense, . thinking person, that it is a matter not so much of expenditure having increased as of average earnings not increasing as rapidly as had been thought. As a result, there was a reduction in the rate of revenue collections from personal income tax. Do I need to remind the Senate that in 1974 wages increased by 23 per cent? In 1975, when the Budget figures were being compiled, wages increased by 1 1 per cent. It is this containment of wages and restraint in the wages field that has been the reason for less revenue coming into the coffers. There has not been increased expenditure. There is less revenue coming to light. In this matter, the Government should be congratulated. 
It is less revenue from taxation. That is what gives the false impression that the Treasurer of the time was in error when he was estimating the deficit. If that is not acceptable to honourable senators opposite, is it that  Senator Cotton  implies that the Treasury officials who made the calculations and drew up the figures had been fiddling? If  Senator Cotton  is entertaining that idea, I want to remind honourable senators that the Treasury officials who advised the previous Government- the Labor Government- and drew up the figures are the Treasury officials who have assisted the Government in the compilation of the figures that it is placing before us today. I should like to refer again to the second reading speech made by  Senator Cotton: 
First, we propose to supplement Consolidated Revenue Fund receipts, and thereby reduce the size of the prospective Consolidated Revenue Fund deficiency, by paying into that Fund unrequired balances held in the National Welfare Fund Trust Account. These balances amount to some $470m and are currently invested in internal treasury bills. 
In respect of this Fund, the Auditor-General is required annually to report upon it as he is to report on other funds. In relation to reporting on the National Welfare Trust Fund for the year ending 30 June 1975, the Auditor-General had this to say: 
The National Welfare Fund was established by the National Welfare Fund Act 1943 - 
By the Chifley Government-  as a Trust Account for the purposes of section 62a of the Audit Act. Moneys standing to the credit of the Fund are applied under the National Welfare Fund Act in making such payments as are directed by any law of the Commonwealth to be made from the Fund - 
This is the punch line-  in relation to health, social services and other welfare services. 
I ask the Minister how the closing off of the Welfare Fund as suggested by the Government serves the legal purposes of the Fund which are supposed to relate to health, social services and other welfare services? 
It may be said that, under the Audit Act, a transfer of moneys from one fund to another can be made. I wonder how the Government, if it were in Opposition, would be handling this measure? It would be accusing us of doctoring the books, fiddling with the figures and doing things in respect of which we had no legal responsibility. The answer is that it is permissible under the Audit Act. I wonder to what degree that answer would stand up to criticism, investigation or examination. 
The main question with respect to the introduction of this measure is: Who is the Government trying to deceive? The inference to be drawn from the second reading speech is that some significant contribution towards the fight against inflation has been made. This is purely a bookkeeping operation which makes not one iota of difference to the Budget deficit. That fact should be understood by all honourable senators opposite. It is purely and solely the transfer of figures from one column to another; nothing more and nothing less. I sincerely hope that in transferring funds from the National Welfare Fund to the Consolidated Revenue Fund the Government will not take the opportunity to give some false idea of what the deficit would actually be. Transfers between funds do not make any difference to the deficit. 
The third point is that in his second reading speech  Senator Cotton  said: 
The Bill proposed by our predecessors prescribed no specific monetary limit on the borrowings for defence purposes that could be undertaken under it- that is, outside the jurisdiction of the Loan Council. 
The Bill I am speaking on contains a specific limit of $700m. 
The inference there is clear. It is that the Loan Bill introduced by the Labor Government was an open ended Bill with no ceiling on the amount to be borrowed whereas the Liberal-National Country Party Government Loan Bill, by comparison with the Labor Party's Loan Bill, has the virtue of placing a ceiling of $700m on the borrowings. It was even suggested by  Senator Carrick  and  Senator Baume  in the debate 6 months ago that the Labor Government's Loan Bill was an open ended Bill, designed that way to enable it to bypass the Loan Council and the States and to raise moneys on the international market for purposes other than defence. These are a few of the intemperate outbursts of  Senator Carrick  and  Senator Baume.  May I remind the Senate of them? They are worth repeating. 
As reported at page 1 124 of Senate  Hansard  of 1 5 October 1 975,  Senator Baume  said: 
The purpose of this Bill is to allow the Loan Council to be by-passed, to allow the voice of the States to be ignored, to allow State cautions and worries to be overridden and to allow State fears about Government financing to be laughed at. 
He went on to say: 
With this Government, all open ended commitments are dangerous because this Government is totally irresponsible. All open ended commitments for this Government are inappropriate. I must illustrate how irresponsible the Government is by referring briefly to some of the recent events. 
The Government has undertaken loan raisings of the kind that it would undertake when this Bill is passed. It has undertaken loan raisings in the last year. 
This is what  Senator Baume  had to say. What deception! What a dishonest claim! 
Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 
-Prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was inviting the attention of the Senate to  Senator Cotton's  second reading speech on the Loan Bill 1 976. Referring to the Loan Bill 1975, he stated: 
The Bill proposed by our predecessors prescribed no specific monetary limit on the borrowings for defence purposes that could be undertaken under it- that is, outside the jurisdiction of the Loan Council. The Bill I am speaking on contains a specific limit of $700m. 
The implication there is that the Loan Bill introduced by the Labor Government was an open-ended Bill with no ceiling on the amount to be borrowed, whereas the Liberal-National Country Party Loan Bill 1976, in comparison, has the virtue of placing a $700m ceiling on the borrowings. If Senators Carrick and Baume had known what they were talking about they would have known that the Loan Bill 1975, as is the case with the Loan Bill 1976, was for defence purposes and referred only to defence outlays authorised by Parliament in Appropriation Bills in 1975-76 for a total of $660.69 lm. That was the total amount that could be charged to the Loan Fund. 
To support my point I refer honourable senators to question No. 17, which was asked 6 months ago, and to the answer. I believe that the question was asked by  Senator Cotton.  The question and answer are recorded on page 705 of the Senate  Hansard  of 10 September 1975. For the edification of honourable senators I remind them of the question and answer. The question was: 
Have any previous Loan Bills been unlimited in amount (save to the extent of appropriations for Defence expenditure)? 
The answer was: 
There have been Previous Loan Acts which express limitations in similar terms to Clauses 3 and 4 of the Loan Bill 1975. These are: 
Loan Act (No. 2) 1968 
Loan Act 1970 
Loan Act 1971 
Loan Act 1974 
Although no specific amounts are mentioned, the limitations imposed in the Loan Bill 1 975 are real in 2 senses: 
The amounts borrowed will be applied to expenditure specified under the heading 'Department of Defence' in other Acts appropriating funds for that purpose. In other words, the total to be charged to Loan Fund cannot exceed the total expenditures of the Department of Defence to be incurred during 1975-76 after the enactment of this Bill and which have received Parliamentary authorisation in 1975-76 Supply and Appropriation Acts; and 
There is a further limitation in that authority to borrow is limited to the extent of the anticipated deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund. 
Is that not a perfect example of the mean, despicable, sleazy tactics of Liberal-National Country Party senators? Let us look at the present Government's Loan Bill (No. 2) 1976. Honourable senators will remember my dealing with the Liberal-National Country Party criticism of our open-ended Loan Bill 1975 and the great play honourable senators made of a specific sum being mentioned in the present Government's Bill. Now we find that the Loan Bill (No. 2) 1976 which was introduced by the Liberal-National Country Party Government- it is the second Bill before us- contains no limit at all and mentions no specific purposes. What an absurd situation! As I heard one of my colleagues say, it is an exercise in semantics. When the end in the first Bill is closed but an open-ended proposition is left in the second Bill, it is only semantics for honourable senators on the Government side to argue that way. The only reason that the end of the first Bill has been closed is that the sum of $ 700m is the sum which can be devoted only to defence expenditure. But Loan Bill (No. 2) can direct unlimited expenditure. With the Government it is a case of: 'Don't do what I do; do as I say'. We are not as suspicious of this open-ended Bill as honourable senators on the Government side were of our Bill. Unlike them we have the highest admiration for the Department of the Treasury officials, from  Sir Frederick  Wheeler at the top right down through the ranks. 
I believe that this Government got into office by making loud noises about inflation and unemployment. It would be absolutely foolish for me or any other to deny that inflation and unemployment are at a higher rate than we would like them to be. But nothing this Government has done so far will remedy that situation one iota. We will hear from honourable senators on the Government side- we have heard it from them repeatedly in the past and we will hear it again with monotonous repetition- that they inherited an awful house from the Labor Party; that we were rejected by the electorate because of mismanagement. During the election campaign I said- I say it again this evening- that with inflation and unemployment as high as it is in the Western world today any government, whether it be a socialist government, a conservative government or a government of any other political persuasion, which went to the electors in this atmosphere would receive the same treatment as the Government of Australia received in December 1975 and as the Government of New Zealand received prior to that. It is not a case of mismanagement or of not being able to do anything conscientiously to avoid inflation or unemployment. It is just that we were the victims of the times. 
I hear honourable senators on the Government side say 'Oh'. This Government will have the acid test put on it very shortly. History runs true to form and the same fate awaits this Government as has faced every government which has gone to the polls in this economic climate. The present Government has been in office only 3 months. Already it is wobbling. All its friends in big business are beginning to desert it. The Government has been told that it must deliver and that it must deliver soon. Supporters of the Government are saying that  Mr Lynch  is the worst, the most terrible Treasurer since Federation. They claim that he is lynching the economy. Let us examine the Government's priorities as regards the economy. One of the first steps of the Government was to take away from the age pensioner the $40 funeral benefit. Government members have become grave robbers. In support of their stance they said that the amount involved was insignificant. I ask: Is 10 per cent of funeral expenses insignificant? I wonder whether honourable senators opposite would think that a 10 per cent yield on their shares was insignificant or whether the 10 per cent they may have received out of the Government fiasco in relation to savings bonds is insignificant. Fancy their saying that the amount involved in the elimination of the 10 per cent funeral benefit is insignificant. I have appealed before in the Senate to the humanitarianism of honourable senators opposite, if there is a spark of it left now, to repeal this decision. I have asked them to cease to be grave robbers and to return this $40 benefit to aged pensioners. 
The Government has even removed the hearing aid benefit which was paid to people inflicted with deafness. It will save paltry amounts by the removal of benefits in these areas. The Government has also decided not to abolish the means test for people aged over 69 years. That was to come into operation on 1 July this year. The Government has decided to cancel that decision, even though in the manifesto of the Liberal Party there is a professed pledge that the Party will abolish the means test for people 65 to 69 years of age. The Government now says it will do this when the economy is in the shape to enable it to be done. From our past experience of this Government, we know that that will be some time in the never never. The Government toyed with the idea, and it is still doing so, of reintroducing television and radio licence fees. It also axed from the Budget to the extent of $9m grants for the Children's Commission child care projects. In so doing, it is dashing the hopes - 
I ask the Leader of the Government: Will the Government give an unqualified assurance that the Reserve Bank will intervene to stop the panic run on Queensland building societies? Does not the Minister believe that this intervention is warranted in view of the emergency now confronting Queensland 's investors and the thousands of couples borrowing for home building? 
Following upon that answer given by the Leader of the Government - 
-Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of the promise made by the Queensland Premier,  Mr BjelkePetersen,  to ease the tax yoke by removing death duties? Does the Minister consider this to be a forward step and can he confirm reports that the Queensland Premier's progressive outlook is to be rewarded with the loss of Federal revenue equivalent to the amount of death duties relieved? Is it true, as reported, that the Commonwealth will take from Queensland the $30m  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  intends to save for Queensland taxpayers? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources aware that the latest net profit of Utah Development Co. topped the $100m mark and that it appears that its latest quarterly profit could exceed this mark despite the $6 coal levy. Because of Utah's profit and its low Australian equity, would not any decision to lift the $6 coal levy be more in the realm of politics than economics? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Will the Minister ascertain details of the financial arrangements with the New South Wales Rugy League which enable the Australian Broadcasting Commission to replay Sydney Rugby League club fixtures on Queensland television channels? Does the arrangement with the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the New South Wales Rugby 
League entitle the ABC to screen these matches in Queensland without payment of a fee to the Queensland Rugby League? As this source of revenue is most valuable in promoting the league code throughout Queensland, will the Minister use his good offices to ascertain whether the ABC is willing to pay a separate fee? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the Minister in a position to say whether the Queensland Premier,  Mr BjelkePetersen,  is indulging in sleight of hand in saying that he will forgo $30m in death duties and pick up $60m in Medibank payouts? Is it true that the Queensland Government will receive this Medibank money? If so, does the Minister approve of this type of deceit where  Mr BjelkePetersen  gives away $30m on the one hand and on the other recoups it plus another $30m in Medibank credits? 
I address my question to  Senator Carrick  as Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. I ask the Minister: Will the Government's federalism policy enable the States to levy personal income tax? When is this scheme likely to start? Will the scheme permit the Queensland Government to introduce double taxation with both the Commonwealth and the State getting their share of the cake? Finally, if so, what safeguards will the Commonwealth insist upon to protect already oppressed salary earners from savage tax slugs which money-hungry States will be able to impose at will? 
-Does the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs consider it desirable in the national interest for the States to have the sole responsibility of raising revenue for education and hospitalisation? Is that not an objective of the Government's federalism policy? If so, would not the Australian Government have to vacate the income tax field to enable the States to raise this revenue for these functions? 
Before I say anything at all, allow me to second enthusiastically the amendment moved by my colleague,  Senator Grimes.  I propose this evening to address a short sermon to the Government. I take my text from the political gospel according to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  employing for the purpose these touching words: 
It has been stated more than once today that we are dealing with people and not statistics. Here again there is a cardinal philosophy of the Liberal Party that there is a basic dignity required for each individual person. He is never a statistic; he is always an individual with needs, and the measures of the Government are based on that philosophy. 
Those words are part of a speech delivered by the Minister in an urgency debate on social services in the Senate on 24 November 1971. This evening I shall set out to prove that the honourable senator has condemned herself out of her own mouth and that she has failed in the performance of the trust committed to her by the people. 
If we are to understand that the Minister for Social Security feels herself not only entitled but also bound to subordinate her views to the necessity to maintain Party solidarity, then my argument falls to the ground. I am as good a party man as anyone but I believe that there are considerations which are superior to the Party. An honourable senator, having once committed herself to a policy, cannot and dare not abandon it in order to preserve her seat in the Cabinet. The Federal Government's decision to abolish the pensioners' funeral benefit which was introduced in 1943 in order to save $1.7m is really scraping the bottom of the barrel. One of the matters that concern pensioners gravely and more than any other matter is whether they will have enough money for their funeral expenses. Anyone who has had any experience with pensioners will know that for many years before pensioners pass away they subscribe to funeral funds. 
When the funeral benefit was introduced originally in 1943 it was designed to give pensioners peace of mind. The benefit of $20 that is paid to a person liable for the funeral costs of a pensioner and the benefit of $40 payable to a pensioner responsible for the funeral costs of another pensioner do not go very far towards meeting the cost of funerals these days. As  Senator Grimes  so eloquently pointed out in his address, the policy of the Australian Pensioners Federation is that the allowance should be $200. Why not, when the average cost of a funeral today is $300? Even in Queensland the allowance for a pauper's funeral is $100. The benefit should not be snatched away from the pensioners. It should never have been allowed to remain at its paltry 1 943 level. 
In 1974-75 there were 55 453 beneficiaries under the scheme. It is no good the Government or the Minister saying that the benefit does not count. It is important to many needy people. It brings shame to the Minister and to the Government when existing benefits for pensioners are to be removed on such scanty grounds as outlined in the Minister's second reading speech. In her second reading speech the Minister told us that the total saving will be $1.7m, that the decision has been taken as part of the Government's review of spending programs and that it is part of its endeavour to reduce administrative costs in government expenditure. Is this $1.7m not a piddling amount, a small amount, indeed? In endeavouring to justify the rationale for doing away with the benefit, the Minister stated: 
I might also point out that some 25 per cent of age pensioners are single and own their own homes. On the death of such pensioners, their estates would generally be sufficient to cover the funeral costs. 
As the previous  speaker,  my colleague  Senator Grimes,  asked: What of the 75 per cent of pensioners who are not in that position? Has there been any inquiry by the Minister or the Government into their position? The Minister continued: 
In addition the $20 funeral benefit is often paid to people who are not pensioners and may not be in need of this assistance. 
Often that may be so. The Minister may be quite right. But why has the Minister, who professes to be interested in people and not statistics, not bothered to find out the facts about funeral benefits? Why did she not ask her Department to find out what was the situation regarding the remaining 75 per cent of pensioners who did not own their own homes and whether they were in need of this funeral benefit? Again on funeral benefits in another aside the Minister advised the New South Wales Combined Pensioners Association that the Government's decision was influenced by the fact that the surviving spouse may receive a double pension for 12 weeks after the marriage partner dies. Let us have it on record in  Hansard  that the Association rejected that claim and that argument by the Minister, and rightly so, because the Association correctly claimed, as every honourable senator knows or should know, that the Liberal-Country Party Government in 1968 introduced the double pension as a means of overcoming the problems that beset pensioners at that time particularly, when their life partner passed away. That provision was never intended- and the Minister and her colleagues know this as well as I do- to replace the funeral benefit. I am surprised that in her reply to the New South Wales Combined Pensioners Association she implied that whilst the funeral benefit was being taken away there was nevertheless this 12 week payment of the double pension, the suggestion, I believe, being that it was something that was being newly introduced. As the pensioners league and we in this chamber know, that double pension was introduced for an entirely separate purpose and not to replace the funeral benefit. This is borne out by the action of successive Liberal-Country Party governments from 1968 to 1972 and by successive Labor governments from 1972 to 1975. Those governments allowed the benefit to remain side by side with the double pension payment.  Senator, snatching  away the funeral benefit from the pensioner has been cruel and shameful. It is surely a very poor little hen roost to rob; and robbery is the word- cruel robbery- because those who are plundered are poor, and you know that. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Government have any powers to require the Reserve Bank to maintain a close check on the activities of building societies in view of the magnitude of investment in those societies; if so, has surveillance become necessary to protect the institutions, investors and borrowers. 
Does the Reserve Bank have any authority to inspect the operations of building societies, so as to ensure that they observe proper ratios between reserves and investment, in the same way that it enforces the rules governing banking operations. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the Government give an unqualified assurance that the Reserve Bank will intervene to stop a panic run on Queensland building societies. 
Is such an action warranted, in the emergency now confronting Queensland investors and the thousands of couples borrowing for home building purposes from building societies. 
-Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate confident that he can control the gallant 6 honourable senators and prevent them from rebelling against the federalism policy which received such rough treatment by the New South Wales electors last Saturday? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government and is consequent upon the question asked by  Senator Maunsell.  Has the Minister read reports that Torres Strait Islanders are threatening to ask Indonesia to intervene on their behalf at the United Nations against what they believe to be the threatened action of the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  to betray their territorial claims against Papua-New Guinea expansion? Is it not a shameful state of affairs for Australians to have to resort to a foreign country for help, a situation forced on them by the seemingly authoritarian attitude of the Fraser Government? Does the Minister not have any sympathy for the plight of the Torres Strait Islanders, who want to keep what they have? 
Can the Minister representing the Treasurer explain what miracle the Prime Minister has performed to enable Treasury to give the go-ahead for full tax indexation from 1 July, when 6 months ago Treasury told the former Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  that total tax indexation was not possible? 
-Does the Minister representing the Treasurer agree that the new Medibank arrangements will persuade many people on higher incomes to rejoin the private medical funds and pay the premiums charged? Does the Minister agree also that these charges will increase the consumer price index and thus result in a higher and not a lower rate of inflation? Is not  Mr Fraser  's outstanding weakness his determination to apply direct principles irrespective of the economic consequences? 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a brief supporting statement. 
I should like to associate myself with the remarks of the  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, and of my colleague  Senator Mulvihill.  When this reference was given to the Committee it was a very timely action because at that time there was a proliferation of committees in the national Parliament. The reference required the Committee to embark on an in-depth study of the parliamentary activities of the national Parliament and also of parliaments overseas. The Committee has been able to present a report which no doubt will be a very useful report for the Parliament. Even if it is not adopted completely, it will be a very useful reference in the future. 
I am proud to have been a member of the Committee, but I think in fairness I must say that the drafting of the report, in the main, was carried out by the  Chairman, Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, his predecessor,  Dr Jenkins,  and the small group of people who went overseas to study the parliamentary committee system in other countries. These people took it upon themselves to draft this report which has been presented today. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack) adjourned. 
Before I say anything about Medibank I must take up the remarks of  Senator Archer.  He said that the telegram to which he referred was sent by  Senator Melzer.  I thought there was some confidentiality between a person who sends a telegram and the Australian Postal Commission or the Australian Telecommunications Commission. I do not intend to pursue the matter this evening because we have the important matters of Medibank to discuss, but I foreshadow to the Senate that I will be inquiring to find out how  Senator Archer  was able to learn that this telegram was sent by  Senator Melzer.  I will reveal my findings to the Senate. So much for that. 
Because several Bills are being debated cognately I would like at this stage to indicate that I will be addressing myself to the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill 1976. This Bill provides for the payment of the Medibank levy and also provides for the levy to be collected in conjunction with the payment of income tax. In simple words, the Bill makes certain provisions. One of them concerns exemption from the levy or tax- whatever we may like to call it- for low income earners. For instance, a single income earner who is earning a taxable income of $2,604 or less a year, or a married income earner who is earning $4,299 or less a year, is exempt from the Medibank levy or tax. The second provision in the Bill grants exemptions from the levy for taxpayers who pay an appropriate premium to Medibank for themselves and their dependants. In the case of a single person the premium is $ 1 50 per annum. In the case of a married person the premium is $300 per annum. The third provision exempts taxpayers who have appropriate insurance cover with a registered health benefit organisation, such as the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Ltd, and who are prepared to pay a premium of $350 a year. In the main that is what the Bill provides. 
This Bill introduces changes to the Medibank system. For this reason it is of the utmost importance to us on this side of the chamber. The greatest asset any political party can have is credit. The electorate should believe that a Party, whether through good report or ill report or through good fortune or ill fortune, stands for certain principles. Time and again during the last election campaign the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and other Government spokesmen on welfare gave assurance after assurance, when challenged, that Medibank would remain, that it would not be disturbed and that most certainly it would not be dismantled. Previous speakers this evening have confirmed that assertion. What do we now find? The Bills before us, I claim, have struck a tremendous blow at the very heart of Medibank. The proposed changes are remarkable when considered against the background of what the Government previously stated. 
There is no doubt whatsoever that the Government has set out to ringbark the whole of the Medibank system. That is not entirely surprising to us on this side of the chamber, because Government supporters have a history of repudiating promises. They seem to be able to twist and turn and although I have said this before in the Parliament, I will continue to say it until their performances are different. They change their minds and opinions every full moon. They are the experts in bally-hoo. I used to think Lloyd George was the prince in this field because he contested and won an election in Great Britain with the slogan 'Hang the Kaiser'. Twenty years later the Kaiser died peacefully in his bed in Holland. Lloyd George was a novice compared with these exhibitionists. In 1952, do we need to be reminded, we had the Menzies slogan 'Put value back into the pound', but he knew full well that he could not do it. 
Twenty-four years later the Liberals are still telling the electors of Australia that they are going to put value back into the dollar and rein in inflation. In 1975 the present Prime Minister when he was on the hustings made certain pledges. Among them was wage indexation. Do I need to remind the Senate what happened when he had his first opportunity to approach the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission? Among other things the Liberals promised that they would maintain Medibank. The Liberals, whether of the era of Lloyd George or of the present time, are the same. They are all tarred with the same brush. Only one conclusion can be drawn from these observations: The Liberal promises regarding Medibank and the Liberal pretensions of support for Medibank have turned out to be absurd. They have turned out to be most insincere. Blind Freddy can see from reading the Bills or the second reading speeches that the Liberals are intent on one thing only- to destroy Medibank. I do not want honourable senators to take just my word for that. I propose later on in this debate to illustrate most conclusively the point that I am making. 
There is another important point. From time to time those of us, particularly on this side of the chamber, who attend meetings of the working class and trade union meetings, hear it stated that the inequalities, the social inequalities of our time are on the increase, that the rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer. I now pose the question to honourable senators opposite: Are not these Bills before us for our consideration another evil on that path? I claim that by allowing the rich to opt out of Medibank we are introducing into legislation a principle that is extremely bad. We are moving away from the long accepted principle that those who can afford most should pay most. We are moving away from the principle of progressive income tax, a principle for which the late and revered Labor Prime Minister,  Mr J.  B. Chifley, won national acceptance and acclaim. We are moving away from the principle that those who get most out of society should be obliged to put most back into it. The rich are the ones who should pay most to meet the general cost of keeping the nation in good health just the same as they are now obliged to meet a greater share per dollar earned than the poor need for the cost of defence, roads, schools and other items of public expenditure. 
I worry about this charge which is sought to be imposed. I am one of those optimists- I suppose an incorrigable optomist- who thinks we have become less patient with inequalities than formerly we were and who is determined to lessen them. However, I am sorry to say that the record of this Government in the 6 months that it has been in office is that it has made more raids and sorties into the welfare of the underprivileged than any other government. Let me instance a few of these raids. There was the attempt to rob the pensioners of the $40 funeral benefit, the failure to allow the consumer price index increase to flow on to dependent children of pensioners, the decision to give the consumer price index increase to pensioners in July rather than April. They are a few examples that come to mind. What about the threat, the threat that was well known, to reintroduce television and radio licence fees in such a way that the poor would have to pay the same as the rich for a licence to listen to the radio or to watch television. 
I am convinced that the Government is determined to destroy Medibank ultimately.  Mr Chipp  let the cat out of the bag in the last election campaign when he disclosed the Government's intentions regarding Medibank. I heard my colleague  Senator Colston  tell the Senate earlier of how  Mr Snedden  also let the cat out of the bag. Of course,  Mr Chipp  suffered the same fate as  Mr Snedden  for his disclosures. He, too, was not allowed to enter the Ministry of this Government. The aim of the Government is ultimately to destroy Medibank and that must be abundantly clear to anybody who has read the Bills or the second reading speeches of the Minister. Permit me to illustrate my point with a few figures. The family premium cover under Medibank is $300. If one wishes to exercise an option and take out private health insurance for intermediate hospital cover the extra cost is $135. That is a total of $435. The $300 Medibank cover ensures only public ward attention in a public hospital and private medical care. 
If one wishes to go beyond that, that is, into intermediate or private ward cover, one has to take out additional insurance. I repeat that the total cost of Medibank cover for a family is $300 plus $135 in private health insurance for intermediate cover, making a total of $435. However, if one opts out of Medibank and takes out cover with the private health insurance funds for private medical care and intermediate hospital cover the premium required is $350. Taking that a step further, the difference is $85 a year. There will be a moral commitment on many people on this side of the chamber to stay in Medibank. If a person wanted to exercise that option the final penalty- it is nothing less than a fine or penaltywould be $85. Certainly, to use the language of honourable senators on the Government side, that would be a sweetener to join the private funds. We on this side of the chamber oppose the measure because we believe that the levy and the way in which it is drawn up is the thin edge of the wedge as far as the Medibank scheme is concerned. We claim that the Government gives lip service in support of the Medibank scheme. Its actions, as evidenced in the contents of these Bills, show otherwise. We all know- I do not need to tell honourable senators opposite- that actions speak louder than words. 
I commend the Government for correcting a serious weakness in the Hayden Medibank scheme. This is not provided for entirely under the Bill to which I have addressed myself but it is provided for in one of the Bills which we are debating cognately. I congratulate the Government for saving the taxpayers $30m. I refer to the $30m rip-off which insurance companies received from Medibank for workers compensation and third party insurance by being relieved of those payments. I enthusiastically congratulate the Government for correcting that serious weakness. I am prepared to say that there are other valuable contributions and improvements which the Government has made in the Medibank Bill but of course the overriding thing which cancels out all the pluses and establishes a big majority for the minuses is the way in which the Government has tried to ultimately destroy Medibank by the levy system. The provisions of the Health Insurance Amendment Bill 1976 which was introduced into this chamber by the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  took care of that $30m rip-off to insurance companies. I congratulate the Minister and the Government on correcting this area. 
Queensland was the beacon for free hospitalisation. Queensland showed the way to all other States in these matters. Decades ago free hospitals were introduced by a Labor government. I am proud to say to the Senate this evening that this system has been retained by a long list of successive Labor and Liberal-Country Party governments. But free hospitalisation in Queensland did not come to the Queensland people cheaply. We had to bear certain restraints in education, schools, roads, and other utilities in order to keep the system intact. 
So it is not surprising to hear any Queenslander get on his feet in this chamber and oppose the 2.5 per cent levy which will be imposed to finance Medibank. Queenslanders are being called upon to pay for a service, which, in the main, they already have free of cost. Surely nobody can blame a Queenslander for that, even the most patriotic of Tasmanians. I sincerely hope that Queensland honourable senators of the National Country Party, now fortified by an appeal from the Queensland Premier, will raise their voices and, more importantly, raise their arms in protest against the levy. Who knows? Perhaps Liberal senators like Ian Wood and  Senator Bonner,  two of the gallant six who were courageous enough to rebel and to give great assistance to the restoration of the funeral benefit to the pensioners, might protest. As Queenslanders this evening we may see them stand on their feet and also oppose this levy. We may even see the greatest miracle of all happen.  Senator Kathy  Martin for once might come out of bond and vote according to her conscience and her conviction. 
I will withdraw the remark about  Senator Martin  and her conscience and conviction. But can she remain in bond? 
Out of respect to you I withdraw,  Mr President.  In conclusion I point out that we on this side of the chamber will watch with interest the performance of Queensland honourable senators opposite for the rest of this evening's proceedings, as we see them unfold. I enthusiastically support  Senator Grimes,  the shadow Minister, in his opposition to this measure on health benefits. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the new Medibank arrangements persuade many people on higher incomes to rejoin the private medical funds and pay the premiums charged. 
Will these charges increase the Consumer Price Index and thus result in more inflation. 
Is the Government determined to implement what it regards as correct principles irrespective of the economic consequences. 

 - Senator Martin told the Senate the other evening that country radio stations in south-eastern Queensland are losing advertising because of a Broadcasting Control Board decision to allow 2 city radio stations to broadcast from an island off Brisbane.  Senator Martin  said that the Board had allowed radio station 4KQ, Brisbane and radio station 4IP, Ipswich to broadcast from St Helena Island in Moreton Bay at a strength of 5000 watts.  Senator Martin  claimed that the increased range of the stations' radio beams had meant that country radio stations in southeastern Queensland faced strong competition and were losing some of their advertising revenue.  Senator Martin  asked for Government action to be taken through the Minister for Posts and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  to restrict the radio beams of 4IP and 4KQ to the Brisbane-Ipswich area, thus cutting them out of the northern and southern reception regions. 
Let me ventilate the facts in regards to this matter. The real facts are in striking contrast to the conclusions to which  Senator Martin  appears to have jumped. So that the Senate will be completely informed of the position in relation to 4KQ's present marketing attitude affecting areas now reached by 4KQ signals- I put the emphasis on the word 'present' because it is quite different from that of the pre-St Helena era- let me give the details: Radio station 4KQ knows that the strength of its reception in the Gold Coast is of local quality and that it extends in many instances beyond the New South WalesQueensland border.The station has had a traditional involvement on the Gold Coast for as long as I can remember. I have 17 years of residence on the Gold Coast to back up this opinion. Over the years 4KQ has promoted and publicised the Gold Coast with outside broadcasts from the Chevron Hotel every Friday. That became a point of interest to tourists. The station has broadcast the Gold Coast foot race, which has outstripped the Stawell Gift in importance at the present time. With outside broadcast units the station has relayed beach patrols, Christmas and New Year functions and incidental campaigns related to individual advertisers located on the Gold Coast or Brisbane advertisers interested in the Gold Coast. Broadcasting vans of 4KQ had long been accepted as a landmark by visitors to the Gold Coast. The symbol of 4KQ was well known to everybody. I submit that 4KQ was synonymous with Gold Coast activities. 
With the arrival of radio station 4GG on the Gold Coast, naturally the directors of 4KQ met in conference and they decided that by retaining their traditional activities on the Gold Coast they could always claim a right to remain there. I do not think that is an unfair conclusion. This situation was accepted by the management of 4GG. I think that is important to the submission that I am making this evening. The fact that 4K.Q remained on the Gold Coast after 4GG was licensed was accepted by the management of 4GG. I am happy to report that the relations between 4GG and 4KQ are on the highest level. 4GG has made it publicly known that it accepts that 4KQ has a traditional involvement on the coast and it could never be claimed that 4KQ has intruded on 4GG territory.  Senator Chaney  is trying to interject. He is from Western Australia, and unless he looked at a map I do not think he would know where the Gold Coast is situated, let alone know anything about what we are discussing. The fact is that 4KQ has never intruded on 4GG territory. That has been accepted by the management of 4GG for the very honest reason that 4KQ was in existence before 4GG. I am happy to say this evening that the secretary of the company at the time was  Senator Keeffe.  He was on the inside of the negotiations that went on between the directors of 4KQ and the newly established station 4GG on the Gold Coast, and a very happy arrangement was arrived at. 
From  Senator Martin's  claims on the matter, the second station concerned could be 4NA at Nambour near the Sunshine Coast. In the past 4KQ had some casual interest in the north coast but only for specific reasons connected with surf festivals and real estate projects originated by advertisers in Brisbane. With regard to sales in Nambour area, the whole basis of the confusion, 4KQ can probably be regarded as the station which has done more in the area of promotion of Australian talent in the past than any other radio station. Statistics prove that point. Talent quests extended to the Nambour area. 4KQ was involved with the Nambour showground and for some years broadcast a campaign for the show society. This of course involved selling to local prospects. The important point is that when 4N A was established  Mr Ralph  Taylor became the manager of the station. He was previously the manager of 4GG. When 4NA was established, what do you think 4KQ did? 4KQ ceased direct selling activities in that area. The only sales activity that could affect 4NA would be Brisbane based activities, such as advertising by the Brisbane based developers ofthe Kawana Estate on the Sunshine Coast. 4KQ 's relations with 4NA Nambour are at a high level, as are its relations with 4GG on the Gold Coast. 
In conclusion permit me to read the last 2 paragraphs of a letter that directors of radio station 4KQ wrote to the Broadcasting Control Board when seeking permission to re-site its transmitter. Its letter was in response to a circular letter that was sent not only to 4KQ and 4IP but to every radio station in Australia telling them that there was a changed policy regarding transmitter power of medium frequency commercial broadcasting stations and that if they desired to have their transmitters re-sited they could apply to the Broadcasting Control Board. That circular letter 'B109' was sent on 7 January 1975. In Queensland it prompted replies from radio station 4KQ and radio station 4IP only. I quote the last 2 paragraphs of 4KQ 's application: 
This, therefore, would mean that 4K.Q would be intruding in areas for which it was not licensed and the areas for which other companies hold a licence. We would appreciate confirmation that the Board approves of this. 4KQ operates with progressive management, but in harmony with other licensees, whether directly involved in our market area or not. We wish to continue this association as we believe it is essential in the development of our industry and the fulfilment of the Board's plan for improvement and expansion of broadcasting in Australia. 
That was part of 4KQ's reply to the circular letter from the Australian Broadcasting Control Board which was sent out in January with the reference number 'B 109 '. 
After reviewing the position and discovering the facts, I am at a loss to know why  Senator Martin  introduced the matter at all. I sincerely hope- and I am sorry that she is not in the chamber to hear my remarks- that her conduct did not spring from an intention to injure radio station 4KQ. Regrettably, her allegations at least 
E reduced the same effect. I now hope the matter as been put aside once and for all as being nothing else but a fizzer from her point of view. 

 Senator JESSOP (South Australia) C 1 1.12) - I rarely intervene in the adjournment debate but tonight I want to make a few comments about certain matters that concern me. I hope that at the end of my speech I will be given the leave seeking to present a petition. There are many troubled spots in the world where violence arises due to internal political struggles. Angola is a typical example. Because of the encouragement of the Soviet Union and the intervention of Cuban troops, the present regime- the Angolan Popular Liberation Movement- has been established. It is my personal view that, where such circumstances arise in the world, the role of establishing peace should be adopted by a United Nations peacekeeping force or by the intervention of the United Nations Security Council. As far as I am concerned, these internal domestic political issues ought to be settled in this way without resort to violence. 
In fact, it is my opinion that Australia should press for the United Nations Security Council to respond to such situations more quickly. In the case of Angola, the Security Council's interest in the affair was brief and, in my opinion, cursory, the issue not being raised before the Security Council until some time after the Soviet and Cuban intervention had been clearly identified. As far as I am concerned, at that stage the outcome was a foregone conclusion. Australians should always bear in mind that we are close to a large number of small nations, many of which have just emerged from colonial status. Therefore I suggest we take a lead in pressing for a quick response to the kind of intervention that occurred in Angola. There are now a large number of small states in the United Nations and we should be ever conscious of their vulnerability. I think it behoves Australia, in our situation in the world, to suggest a quick initiative to meet crises such as these. As far as I am concerned, the previous Government was very loath to encourage such quick intervention. I am one who is very critical about that. 
In Angola we have witnessed nothing less than an outrage against the process of decolonisation as it has been accepted internationally for more than a decade. A major outside power which had no cultural or economic links with the territory has been able to force the outcome of domestic politics in a direction to suit its own ends. As in other places, the outside world did little to prevent these developments which cost the lives of thousands of people. I realise that  Dr Castro  has announced- I understand this from a Press statement last week and I have substantiated this by checking with other sources- that many of the 15 000 Cuban troops in Angola, who have acted in my opinion as proxies for the Soviet Union, will be withdrawn in 2 years. I understand the proposition is that about 200 troops a week will be withdrawn. Can we believe that this will happen? In any case, after that period several hundred troops will be left in that country. This could create a political irritation in Angola and could tend to prevent free political determinations. For this reason I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a petition which has been signed by 33 members of the Federal Parliament and which I propose to send to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. I understand that a similar petition signed by approximately 35 members of the Federal Parliament will be presented in another place. 
-I am prompted to rise to pay my personal tribute to the late George Whiteside. I knew George 
Whitside for over 30 years. I met him first in 1942 when I returned from the Middle East and was on embarkation leave prior to leaving for New Guinea. The place was Rockhampton. George Whiteside was then in Rockhampton in his capacity as organiser of the Federated Engine Drivers' and Firemen's Association. He was conducting an organised tour through Queensland. He offered me transport to Mackay. Honourable senators will know that at that time with the war-time restrictions that were operating and with transport in short supply his offer was greatly appreciated. I have always regarded it as being most significant that from the moment I met him I had a continuing friendship with George Whiteside and I have always regarded it as being significant that I have had a continuing and warm friendship with the people to whom he introduced me. 
In order really to understand the full measure of the man and his worth in the community one would need to have knowledge of the very considerable contribution that he made to the industrial and political life of this country, which was so capably referred to earlier by my colleague  Senator Georges.  One of the wishes that lay nearest to George Whiteside's heart was that Queensland would become a great Australian Rules State. He was as proud of the sport of Australian Rules at the time of his death as he was when he came to Queensland as a young man in the late 1920s. I must admit that, as the  President  of the Queensland Rugby League, I gave away a long time ago any thought of ever converting him to that game. Of course, that only exemplifies his character. He was a man who remained steadfast to the causes in which he believed. 
I should mention that I had the pleasure of meeting the late former  Senator Bill  Aylett on only one occasion, even though he retired to the Gold Coast. That was when I delivered a message to him from the then  Senator Lionel  Murphy, who I understand was a very close friend of his. He retired from the Senate before I became a member of it, as did the late former  Senator Bull  and, I understand, the late former member of the House of Representatives,  Mr Failes.  So I did not know them in the Parliament. I regret the passing of each of them and also the passing of the former Governor-General of Australia, Lord Casey, and I hasten to extend to the relatives of all of them my deepest sympathy. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 

 Senator WITHERS (Western AustraliaLeader of the Government in the Senate)-  Mr President,  as a mark of respect to the memory of the deceased, I suggest that the sitting of the Senate be suspended until  8  p.m. 
Sitting suspended from 3.28 to 8 p.m. 
I ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce: In view of the low productivity in the building and metal industries, and as low productivity is one of the main causes of inflation and unemployment, will the Government undertake to encourage prosperity sharing schemes between employers and employees in an attempt to increase productivity? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Science. Now that the cyclone season has arrived can the Minister inform the Parliament what are the functions of automatic weather stations on the Queensland coast such as the one located at Holmes Reef? How often is maintenance carried out at these stations? How many of these stations are situated between the Queensland and New South Wales border and the top end of Cape York? Have observation stations at Cardwell, Cooktown, Weipa and other locations been abolished as part of the Government's cutback in spending? Is the Minister aware that this could create grave dangers, particularly for light aircraft in the cyclone season? 
I address myself, under the estimates for the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, to division 297, item 01, Contribution to operational expenses- Hotel Kurrajong, Brassey House and Ainslie Guest House. I did not take part in the hearings of the Estimates Committee because I had been overseas for 2 months as a member of a delegation from this Parliament to a world conference in Spain dealing with reducing world tension in international affairs and a new economic order. For that reason I was not here when the Estimates were examined by the Estimates Committees, and I did not take part in the Budget debate. I heard the contribution made by  Senator Wright  this evening and the veiled challenge that he threw down to the effect that I should have been in the chamber to support him in his remarks regarding the Kurrajong Hotel. That prompts me this evening to rise in my place and make some contribution towards the consideration of the estimates concerned with that area. 
I do not need to remind the Senate of the performance that took place in this chamber 12 months ago when the Estimates were being examined by the Senate and of the hysterical manner in which the Public Service was put under inquisition. Questions were asked and all sorts of hysterical claims were made that the Government was misappropriating funds. I think that honourable senators will recall that I rose in my place as the  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on Public Accounts in an endeavour to bring some sanity back into the consideration of the Estimates by reminding honourable senators opposite, who were then in Opposition, that appropriations and estimates are framed in accordance with Treasury regulations and Treasury procedures. I pointed out that it did not matter what was the political persuasion of the party in government because it was firmly laid down by the regulations that estimates had to be prepared in a certain manner and that expenses only up to a certain point were taken into account. I think it will be recalled that I had to rebuke certain honourable senators opposite, some of whom are now Ministers, for their total ignorance of Treasury regulations. I was heartened this evening to hear  Senator Baume,  who in the last 12 months has become a member of the Public Accounts Committee, give very good advice to his colleague,  Senator Wright,  and try to put him on to the track and to reinforce completely the views that I expressed in this chamber 12 months ago. However, so much for that. 

 Senator Wright made the claim that he thought I should have been in the chamber this evening to support him in his remarks regarding the Kurrajong Hotel. I want to be as kind as I can to the honourable senator. It is true that when he was the Minister responsible for these matters I did approach him to try to do something to restore the prestige of the Kurrajong Hotel. It is one of the most valuable landmarks in the city of Canberra. It and its precincts are well known landmarks in Canberra and probably the best real estate in this town. If we are genuine when we talk about national heritage, it should be preserved. I approached  Senator Wright  when he was Minister and he gave me a good hearing. But nothing happened. 
Let me put the record straight. The Labor Government came to power and I carried on my crusade with the Honourable Les Johnson who succeeded  Senator Wright  in being responsible for that portfolio. I am happy to be able to report to the Senate this evening that, contrary to what  Senator Wright  said this afternoon when he misled the Senate, much was done. Management consultants were engaged to look at the accommodation side of things. John F. Lynch and Associates, who are construction engineers from Brisbane and who are well established engineers in the hotel field, were consulted. As a result of the imagination and the enterprise of the directors of Commonwealth Hostels Ltd, a practical proposition was drawn up under which the Kurrajong Hotel was to be restructured as a licensed hotel to bring it into the concept of what a modern international tourist hotel should be today. A study was done to ascertain whether it would be a feasible proposition. The cost of restructuring the hotel to make it into something of which the capital city would be proud was estimated at $ 1.25m. The feasibility study that was carried out by experts showed that it was a commercial proposition. 
Now that the party of  Senator Wright's  political persuasion is in government, I suggest that it seek out those plans and those feasibility studies and that it not succumb to taking the easy way out, as is recommended in the Estimates, by selling the Kurrajong Hotel and its adjoining property for the sake of convenience. The Labor Party did a great deal to obtain the plans that  Senator Wright  said I cavorted before him as Minister.  Senator Wright  gave me plenty. He left me with the impression that he was a millionaire in words but a bankrupt in ideas. The Honourable Les Johnson was the only man who came forward with a constructive idea. I repeat that 2 firms of management consultants were called in, a feasibility study was carried out, the plans were drawn up and an estimate of costs was received. The plans should still be available. I suggest that if  Senator Wright  is still keen to preserve part of our national heritage-the Kurrajong Hotel- he should look for those plans. 
I have the highest respect and admiration for the directors of Commonwealth Hostels. I do not share  Senator Wright's  views on or his criticism of their efficiency. I find them to be most receptive to progressive ideas, to initiative and to imagination. If they were not we would not have been able to formulate the plans that are somewhere in the department. I did not like  Senator Wright's  veiled criticism of  Mrs Margaret  Whitlam, because I feel that her elevation to the position of a director of Commonwealth Hostels enhanced considerably the prestige of that organisation. 
I address myself to divisions 120 to 125 which deal with the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I am prompted to take part in this debate as a former  chairman  of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. Earlier this evening I was able to tell the Senate that there are many distinguished senators in this chamber, some of whom are Ministers today, who did not understand Treasury regulations and Treasury procedures. But I am amazed how much some honourable senators have learnt in 12 months when they have sought good advice by accepting membership of the Public Accounts Committee. 
Most of those honourable senators to whom I refer are educated people, people who have had the benefit of high school and university education. It is all right to challenge in this chamber the misappropriation of public funds or the failure to comply with Treasury regulations or, like a Disraeli, to quote at length form the AuditorGeneral's report, is taking up about 10 hours of today's sitting, matters which will be taken care of by the Public Accounts Committee in any case. It is all right to challenge the Aborigines and try to make a scapegoat of one or two officials of some Aboriginal organisation who say that they will not bow to Treasury regulations. 
The point I am trying to develop is this: We are dealing with an area in which we have got to show a lot of compassion, a lot of understanding and a lot of give and take. It is an area in which I feel we will not get anywhere until we start to approach the problem on a non-party political basis. It is no good our trying to score points off the Tories on the other side or the Tories trying to score points off us when we were in government. We will not solve anything in that manner. A public inquiry was held into the affairs of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. Anyone can make a very strong case in regard to the omissions and defaults in not adhering to the regulations. But when the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the government of the day have to hand over authority to people out on missions and far-flung places who do not even know how to read or write, who can sign their names only with a cross but who are probably as honest as those people who can with the greatest eloquence and write with the most perfect handwriting, and when you are dealing with people who genuinely feel when they put their cross that they are signing for something that has been committed to them, how on earth overnight are you going to make them fill in these voluminous forms that Treasury regulations require? 
A lot of these people send their messages by message stick. We had evidence to that effect given to the Committee of which I was a member. It is all right for honourable senators to attack departments in this chamber and to think that they are unearthing some defalcation or mismanagement of the public purse. That sounds good and it might read all right in the record. But I appeal to those honourable senators who have a spark of humanitarianism in them and who have had any experience of these matters. I hope that  Senator Baume  will acquire that quality before the final report on the investigation of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs is brought down. We are dealing with 2 types of departmental people. The departmental heads are all right; they are trained public servants. They know the Treasury regulations, but they have got to hand down along the line the supervision of the affairs of the Department, so you are getting down to mission stations where people will not go. 
It does not matter where it is. Whether it is the legal service - 
Yes, but you are dealing with people who do not understand the procedures. 
-Now the interjection is that because he does not understand Treasury regulations he should not have been there. I submit to the Senate that apart from  Senator Cotton, Senator Guilfoyle  and  Senator Wright,  not one Government senator should be in this chamber trying to consider intelligently the estimates for this year because they do not know anything about the Treasury regulations and they were proved to be wrong. 
-It is no such thing. It is all right for  Senator Baume  to try to make a scapegoat of one official from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. What we have to do is to adopt an education program. I think that the Department should be able to do it. It will be able to teach and train the Aborigines it takes on to its staff. It will be able to train them in what is required under Treasury regulations, how estimates are prepared, and what are the requirements in appropriations. That is what honourable senators opposite should be doing instead of castigating people who do not understand those procedures, when half the honourable senators in this chamber do not understand them. I reckon that if I submitted five of the simplest questions on Treasury procedures honourable senators opposite would fail with a mark of minus five. Yet they attack people who have never been shown what to do but who are willing to do these things. Their consciences are good. 
What has happened here tonight is absolutely ridiculous. I could not sit here and listen to an official being castigated as an excuse for some failure or some discrepancy in accounting. I put  Senator Baume  's attack on the Legal Aid Service in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in the same category as  Senator Wright's  verbose reading of the Auditor-General's report. If he feels so strongly that all these things should be corrected, he should nominate himself in his party room to become a member of the Public Accounts Committee. In that way he could get all the redress he would want in the world. 
My question is addressed to  Senator Webster  in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in the Arts: Is he aware that a large painting by Jackson Pollock called  Lavender Mist  was sold recently through a London dealer to the National Gallery of Art in Washington for well over US$2m? By comparison, does this not make the Whitlam Labor Government's acquisition of  Blue Poles  an astute purchase? In view of this how does he now explain away his Government's extravagant use of language in referring to the purchase of  Blue Poles  as irresponsible, corrupt, a scandalous waste of money, dull, uninteresting and showing poor business acumen? 
For the Government the sky is black at present, the sun is being blotted out of the heavens, and if ever the time had arrived for the turning on of the lights it is now. Each week it become patently clear to us on this side of the chamber that there are too many honourable senators opposite who think themselves tied by pledges which were extracted not by reason but by expediency; pledges which were the expression of philosophy rather than conviction. This applies particularly when we hear honourable senators opposite say that they are the protectors of the States' rights and that the Senate is a States' House. We all well recall that throughcut the last election campaign the Fraser philosophy pledged the Government to new federalism. How often in this chamber have we seen the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  don the shining armour, mount the prancing steed and become the champion of the sacred autonomy and sovereignty of the States? How often has  Senator Carrick  told us, when answering questions, that a new era was dawning for the States? How often has he assured us that the States would enjoy greater prosperity and greater financial stability than they did previously? How often has he given us the impression that he will lead the States to new found horizons, when the States have been following his leads only out of curiosity? Now they know him to be a Moses in reverse. 
I want to be as kind as I can to him, but I must say that I believe that he gives the impression of being hooked on federalism as other people are hooked on heroin, and with as great a danger to the States in the long run. I feel that in his federalism campaign he has passed the point of no return. He cannot go back because of his self satisfaction and the pledges of his Government. So he goes stumbling on from hurdle to hurdle. As a consequence, these Bills- the States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Bill and the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Bill- bring us face to face for the first time with the hard financial arrangements under which the new federalism policy is to work. 
On examination, what do we find? We discover that the Bills do nothing to meet the real financial needs of the States and local government. This Government, which has been masquerading as the champion of the States, has been found to be a sham. The Leader of the Opposition in another place, Gough Whitlam, expertly summed up the situation when he said: 
The Liberal Party which pledged to uphold the sacred autonomy and due sovereignty of the States will be shackling them more closely to the authority and direction of the Liberals in Canberra. 
How apt that is. Even  Senator Scott,  who usually in this place is strong in support of his convictions, was very wobbly today when he tried to prop up the Government's case for federalism. He said that it would give the States great authority, but he did not give one instance in which the Federal Government has passed any authority to the States. I hope succeeding speakers will give us an example of any transfer of authority from the Commonwealth to the States. 
An examination of these Bills discloses that the States will, in truth, be starved of funds and will be more rigidly controlled than they were previously. Of course the window dressing for the new federalism had great appeal during the last election campaign. No one can deny that. It appeared imaginative, it appeared exciting and it appeared that it would usher in a new order. It has turned out to be a pipe dream. It was election ballyhoo designed primarily to deceive the electors. Those of us who have had a long association with the Australian Labor Party know that the Liberals are expert at doing this. I do not need to remind the Senate that in 1952  Mr Menzies  fought and won an election on the ballyhoo that he would put value back into the pound. When he retired as Prime Minister in the mid-1960s, after a long succession of Liberal governments, he had failed to fulfil his promise. What was worse, he had failed even to attempt to fulfil that promise. Do I need remind the Senate that Lloyd George in the United Kingdom fought and won an election on a hang the Kaiser campaign? Yet the Kaiser died peacefully in his bed in Holland 20 years later. We know the Liberals to be the experts at ballyhoo in election campaigns. The Liberals today are no different from the Liberals at the turn of the century. They are tarred with the same brush. So it is that on this issue the Liberal Party has again been dishonest to the electors. 
I will now proceed to demonstrate that point. I believe that 2 main questions require answers in this debate. Firstly, might we ask: Will the States and local government, taking into account the total revenue and resources available to them to meet their commitments, be better off or worse off under the new proposals? The question is as simple as that. The Bills provide that a fixed percentage of revenue from personal income tax will go both to the States and to local government. The Government says that it can amend the fixed percentage from time to time by Act of Parliament, but it will not necessarily amend it. Accordingly, with the introduction of tax indexation, personal income tax will be a no growth tax. That is a very important point. As these Bills provide for an allocation of a fixed percentage of income tax and as personal income tax is a no growth tax due to tax indexation, the allocation to the States and local government will not rise in line with the rise in the rate of inflation. That is the punch line in the whole of the Opposition's argument. The real value of funds allocated to the States will decline each year. The real value will decline each year because the amount is based on a fixed percentage of a no growth tax. 
What follows? The States have the hard and harsh choice either to increase their own taxes to meet the short fall in revenue or to allow essential community services in these areas to decline and new federal initiatives in these areas to expire. That is the choice facing the States. I believe that it is not exaggerating the position to claim that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has adroitly passed the buck to the States for all the failings of government. That is very nice footwork if he can get away with it. One will find that whenever something unpleasant must be faced or blame must be apportioned, such as for the raising of taxes or starving essential services of necessary funds, the States will cop the blame. For the States, let there be no doubt. The future, at best, must be hazardous and uncertain. 
Permit me to give an example. In 1971 the Commonwealth transferred to the States the right to collect payroll tax. While this gave the States an important new taxing power it did very little for their immediate revenue positions, as there was an almost comparable reduction in the financial assistance grants. The net immediate benefit to the States was a paltry $22.3m, the amount by which offsetting deductions were less than payroll tax received, based on the  2Vi  per cent levy. We also know that, although the States agreed to keep payroll tax at the same level throughout the Commonwealth, it was not long before the States were in open competition among themselves. The same situation will arise when the States are forced to introduce their own taxation. 
The Prime Minister, without a doubt, has let the States down. He has let them down by keeping their percentage share of personal income tax to a minimum and then excluding certain special surcharges from the base to which it applies. I know that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has said that he will review these special surcharges; but until there is a firm commitment from the Government, stated clearly and in black and white, we can debate these Bills and their contents only as they are before us. One of the serious claims against the Government's proposals is that the Government is seeking to exclude certain special surcharges from the base to which it applies these percentages. The States realise now- they have realised it before it is too late- that they were better off under the formula system that served them well for so many years. I have heard State Premiers say now that in the fiscal year 1975-76 on the formula laid down by the Whitlam Government the States received more money than they had ever had before. But, of course, they knew the old saying: 'The door that squeaks the loudest gets the most oil'. Even though they received a greater share of the finances, they were still singing out: 'Not enough'. But if we asked them today whether they would prefer the old formula that was in existence or this new pipe dream of the new federalism- later on I Will show quite clearly where the States stand in that regard- we know what the answer would be. 
That brings me to the second question, which is: Do the States want the new system, and are the States supporting it? In his second reading speech when introducing this legislation,  Senator Carrick  said: 
Federalism policy and tax sharing arrangements central to it were, of course, the subject of Premiers Conferences in February, April and June this year. 
That appeared at page 1 of the printed copy of his speech circulated to honourable senators. At page 10 of that speech the Minister said: 
In concluding I wish to record the Government's appreciation of the co-operative and constructive attitude which Premiers have brought to the discussion and development of the tax sharing arrangements which are embodied in this Bill. 

 Senator Carrick would have us believe that the States are supporting the scheme when he knows in his own heart that such a conclusion is an absurdity. 
We, on this side of the chamber, await with great interest the distribution of the official transcript of the Premiers Conference held in June; we have not received it yet. Certain extracts from that transcript have appeared in the Press. They have not been challenged or denied. That transcript will reveal, I believe, that there was confrontation not only from the Labor Premiers but from all Premiers. What was the position of Queensland, the State in which, as a Queensland senator, I am deeply interested?  Sir Gordon  Chalk, attending his last Premiers Conference before his retirement as Treasurer and  Deputy  Premier of Queensland, said: 
I have been here since the days of  Sir Robert  Menzies and I just cannot believe what has happened this afternoon. I just cannot believe that this is the attitude of a free enterprise Government. We have no alternative but to go back and slash employment. 
Those are the words of  Sir Gordon  Chalk, then Liberal Treasurer and  Deputy  Premier of Queensland and at that time the longest serving Treasurer in Australia. What was the stand taken by that great defender of States rights, that Labor-hater, the Premier of Queensland, the Honourable Johannes Bjelke-Petersen? Commenting on 8 April 1976, he showed that he was well awake to what the Prime Minister and  Senator Carrick  were all about. He said: 
The Treasury is trying to dump the odium of tax raising on the States without dumping any of the money itself. If the Prime Minister is genuine about Federation he will be talking just not about income tax but a share of all Federal revenues. 
I could go on and tell the Senate of the attitude of  Sir Charles  Court of Western Australia and of the hostility that is being expressed by all the other Premiers; but time does not permit. This is on record in the transcript of the June Premiers Conference, if honourable senators care to thumb the pages. 
Let me summarise: There would be merit in the proposition if the Commonwealth tax revenue were to continue to grow and if specific purpose grants were to continue at the same level as when they were established by the Whitlam Labor Government. That is an important observation. If that were the case, we would be supporting the proposition; but most certainly we cannot support the proposition in its present form. For that reason, I enthusiastically second the amendment which was moved so eloquently by my Leader,  Senator Wriedt,  and which I quote now so that it may be officially recorded in my speech. The amendment is: 
Leave out all words after 'that', insert 'the Bills be withdrawn and redrafted following proper consultation with the State Governments concerning their objectionable features '. 
I think we should feel indebted to  Senator Cavanagh  for elucidating the point regarding association. I am indebted also to  Senator Missen  for his attempt to explain it, although his explanation did not fully satisfy the Opposition. I think it is loose draftsmanship. The expression should have been spelt out more clearly. In order to satisfy myself, I ask the Minister: Does he regard an officer of the Municipal Employees Union as a person associated with local government? The list of persons associated with local government could go on endlessly. This is why I say that we should be greatly indebted to  Senator Cavanagh  and his analytical brain for trying to clarify the position. I have no doubt that the Minister, while he is occupying this position, will interpret this clause as he has indicated that he will, but he will not be in that position always. We have to wonder what a Minister in the future might do. 
I refer to clause 3 and to the definition of base figure'. The Bill states that 1.52  per centum  of personal income tax shall be the minimum base. During the course of my contribution this afternoon I said that in real terms that will deteriorate year by year because it is based on personal income tax which is subject to tax indexation and therefore it will become a no growth tax. I was hoping the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  would answer my query when he replied to the second reading debate. But he did not do so and I hope he might do it now. The base figure is to be 1.52  per centum  of personal income tax. Income tax, as indexed today, becomes a no growth tax. I said that we would see some merit in supporting a proposition of a per centum of personal income tax if there were no tax indexation. I meant a gradual increase. It would keep in step with the inflation rate. That is one point. 
The other point relates to the 1.52 per cent of personal income tax, but special surcharges are levied against the base. I understand that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said in another place that he would review the surcharges. I would like to know whether that is the Government's intention. I reaffirm that when the transcript of the June Premiers Conference is available it will show, contrary to what the Minister said in his summary, hostility towards the minimum base rate plus the surcharges that would be levied against it. I am being kind to the Minister when I say that he gave the Senate the impression that the Premiers were in agreement. The transcript of the June Conference will show that they were hostile about the minimum charge and the surcharges being levied against it. 
Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate deny that there are rumblings among Government back bench members about the manner in which certain Ministers are handling their portfolios? Is it a fact that the Prime Minister is contemplating upon the adjournment of the Parliament a major reshuffle of ministerial responsibility? Are the Department of Foreign Affairs, the Department of Defence, the Department of the Capital Territory, the Department of Post and Telecommunications and the Department of Finance involved? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that if the Family Law Court makes an order for reasonable access to the child or children of a separated couple where the wife has custody and the husband applies for access, the only way the husband can enforce this order is again to apply to the Court for it to enforce the order. 
Approximately what costs would be incurred in court costs, solicitor and barrister fees in initially obtaining an access order. 
Approximately what costs would be incurred in again applying to the Court asking it to enforce its order. 
If the wife continues to hold the Court's order in contempt and denies the husband reasonable access to his children, what recourse does the husband have open to him that will not cost him large sums of money. 
-Is the Minister for Industry and Commerce aware that 44 currencies have moved since the present Government came to power and that the Australian dollar has depreciated 19.5 per cent against the United States dollar? Is the Minister also aware that the depreciation against the United States dollar is larger than that of sterling and the New Zealand dollar and less than only that of countries such as Chile, Mexico and Uruguay? In the Minister's view, does this engender confidence in the minds of overseas investors contemplating construction of new industrial plants in Australia? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is the Minister aware that a practice has developed in the broadcasting industry in Queensland where one radio station, namely 4BK, is conducting football broadcasts without the permission of the Queensland and Brisbane Rugby Leagues? Is the Minister aware that the Queensland and 
Brisbane Rugby Leagues have entered into a contractual relationship with radio station 4IP enabling that station to provide football broadcasts? Will the Minister agree that station 4BK is making football broadcasts on a pirate basis and that if this is allowed to continue a very serious and unethical business precedent will be established? Will the Minister therefore refer the matter to the recently established Australian Broadcasting Tribunal for public investigation and report to this Parliament? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Training Section of the Bureau of Customs which has been separated for approximately 6 years from the main Departmental office in Brisbane to be moved from the Commercial Union Insurance Building to Australia House. 
When will the move occur and how much will the move, partitioning etc., cost. 
Will the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development have to be relocated in Leighton House, before the move can occur. 
When will the move occur and how much will the move, partitioning, etc., cost. 
Is a new Customs House shortly to be constructed and is the Bureau of Customs Training Section then to be located with the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. 
What is the benefit of locating the Training Section in Australia House when the rest of the Bureau of Customs is located in the Customs House, 1 67 Eagle Street, Brisbane. 
Are the moves budgeted for in the Department's Estimates. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations: In the light of the increase in the consumer price index for the December quarter, will the Government review its policy of opposing award increases and thus honour an agreement made between the Government and the trade unions last June? 
Order! The Leader of the Government does not need any assistance. 
But  Senator Douglas  McClelland does not need to read a speech. I have never seen  Senator Georges  read a speech. I have heard  Senator Keeffe  speak on many occasions using notes. He refers to this point and that and speaks from the heart. Why does he need a written speech? I believe that some speeches would be improved if they had been written but I will not name the honourable senators to whom I refer. I make the simple point that this proposal seeks to interfere with a practice which is of longstanding. The standing order has been interpreted sensibly by the Chair no matter who occupies it at any particular time. That standing order has always been interpreted with great common sense. I do not think anybody has ever been terribly upset about it. We know that occasionally the copious notes of an honourable senator may be a bit more 'copious' than copious. But that is accepted in the spirit of the exercise. Why get into a situation where all speeches can be read? Before very long we would reach the stage where, as I understand happens in other places, when a member of Parliament receives the call, an attendant rushes up, puts a lectern in front of him and out comes a prepared speech, a copy of which has been given to  Hansard  beforehand, and the member stands there and reads it. If that happened here, it would be terrible. We would become known as the 'red reading room'. I would not want that to happen in this place. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is he aware that the Trade Practices Commission has determined that on an annual basis the contractual arrangement entered into between the Queensland Rugby League and radio station 4IP is a legitimate transaction and within the terms of the Trade Practices Act? In view of this, will the Minister therefore draw the decision of the Trade Practices Commission to the attention of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, and will he take immediate action to ensure that radio station 4BK ceases the illegal and pirate broadcasting of rugby league football in Queensland? 

 - Senator Walters wandered down memory lane while making her speech detailing to the Senate achievements by previous Liberal and Country Party governments. As those Parties that she supports have been in government for 4 years out of every 5 years since Federation, it is only natural that there would have been some achievements. What the Senate, the Parliament and the people of Australia would have liked to hear from  Senator Walters  today is when this Government is going to start doing something and to begin turning on the lights. 
In ordinary circumstances I decline to take part in Address-in-Reply debates as I believe that often such debates prove to be a great waste of time. They seldom add enlightenment on either the affairs of this country or the state of the House. My only excuse for rising to take part in this debate is that I consider that the speech we heard was one of the most extraordinary ever presented to us, particularly when the surrounding circumstances are taken into account. In the speech from the throne  Her  Majesty was made to say: 
Historic reforms are being made in the nation's federal financial relations which will return power and responsibility to the State and local levels of government. 
When we read that Speech which traditionally is deemed to outline the Government's program we find nothing in it that has any bearing whatever upon Commonwealth-State relations except for the sentence I have quoted. In fact the Speech is extraordinary in more ways than one. In printing terms it occupies a mere 3 columns in  Hansard.  Surely that eloquently expresses how barren the Government really is in policy legislation. This Government seems to be continually conceiving but the strange thing is that nothing ever happens. There can be no doubt that the Parliament, the States and the electorate have been left in blissful ignorance about the new federalism program. Later on the Government may be prepared to reveal fully its intentions to the Senate. When it does, we on the Opposition side of the chamber will be able to say whether the proposals warrant our support. So much for that subject. 
Now I would like to address myself to an item that received great emphasis in the Speech made by  Her  Majesty. I refer to the Government's housing voucher pilot scheme. If this scheme were to help the many thousands of people in need of housing- as they most certainly are- one would be greatly impressed. But if this is the main thrust of the Government's solution to the housing crisis- the emphasis placed on it in the address from the Throne clearly implies that it is- then this is a tragic circumstance. I ask the Government senators: 'Who do you think you are deluding? Whose leg do you think you are pulling? Let us look at what mades this situation so deplorable. The Budget provision for this proposal is $75,000. Let us calculate the housing supplement by way of rental subsidy. Let us say that that amounted to $20, which would be a minimum amount as a rental subsidy per week for the average area throughout Australia. We find by applying mathematics and multiplying the $20 per week by 52 weeks that the cost is approximately $1,000. If we divide the $1,000 into $75,000 we find that this so called magnificent scheme which is referred to in the address from the Throne will assist 75 families only. 
It will assist 75 families only. In sharp contrast to this proposal, the $5 a week rental subsidy which is given to pensioners costs $4.3m per annum. Yet we have the allocation in the Budget for this great pilot scheme of $75,000. Government senators should hang their heads in shame. How ludicrous; it is an insult to the intelligence of the Australian electorate. What chance do young people in our community have of getting proper accommodation when the best that is offered by this Government by way of rental assistance is a paltry, miserly $75,000 a year? I sincerely hope that  Her  Majesty's Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  will look at this matter urgently and come up with a much more generous scheme in the future. While I am speaking about the Speech given by  Her  Majesty I refer to another matter which was given high priority in that extraordinary Speech.  Her  Majesty stated: 
The new family allowance scheme places in every mothers hands an allowance to spend as she thinks is best for the welfare of her family. 
Honourable senators will remember that this scheme is already happening. If I were a Government senator I would not be crowing that much about it either. If ever there was a thimble and pea trick performance, this is it. 
No, I am not opposed to it. The money is given to the mother on one hand and taken from the taxation deduction which the father can claim on the other hand. That is a David Nixon sleight of hand trick, if ever there was one. I turn to a matter which concerns Queensland, the State I represent in this chamber. In the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission in 1976 provision was made for Queensland to receive by way of special grant under section 96 of the Constitution an amount of about $27m. At present Queensland is the only claimant State before the Grants Commission. 
No, Queensland is still the only State. There is no doubt that the position of Queensland has been greatly improved as a result of the operation of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. There is no argument whatsoever with that situation. It is true that Queensland suffers some disabilities because of its size and the decentralisation of its population. Because of these features special assistance to Queensland has always been regarded in this chamber as being appropriate. Another feature which must weigh heavily in favour of the Queensland case before the Grants Commission is that Queensland, and particularly Brisbane, is growing more rapidly than any of the other eastern States. Between 1971 and 1974 the Moreton region, which includes Brisbane, had a population growth of 3.1 per cent, which compares with 2.5 per cent growth for Queensland as a whole and 1.5 per cent for the rest of Australia. This population certainly will be of benefit to Queensland but it will also- this is the point I am trying to develop- place greater strain upon authorities in the State. This growth in population will require considerable administrative skill which, unfortunately, the present Government is not showing. 
-I hear the interjection oh. To elaborate on my point I shall give one or two specific examples of this matter. I claim that part of the disadvantage which Queensland faces is a direct result of the attitude of the State Government. The Queensland Treasurer in his Budget Speech for this financial year pointed out that the Queensland Budget was influenced by Commonwealth actions in cutting grants to the States in general revenue and for specific purposes. 
That was said by  Sir Gordon  Chalk. He said that the Queensland Budget was influenced by the cutting of grants to the States for general revenue and specific purposes in certain areas. These areas were Aborigines, railways and land development. Yet when one looks at the report of the Grants Commission one can see readily that the Queensland Government claimed special difficulties in the areas of Aborigines, railways and land development. In relation to Aborigines the Queensland Government claims that there is an added drain on its social welfare services because of the high Aboriginal population. This fact must be accepted by all. But here is the punch line: Despite the Government claims that there is a drain on social welfare services because of the high Aboriginal population, it persistently refuses to co-operate with the Federal Government. It does not happen only under a Whitlam Government; the same thing is happening in relation to this Government over the provision of services for Aborigines. If honourable senators opposite think that is not correct, I say to them: Consult your colleague the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Viner.  Surely this refusal must cause hardship to the Aboriginal population. Also it must add to the costs of running Queensland. I wish that some Government senators from Queensland were in the chamber to hear that point which I have made. I would like them to think it over and to use their persuasive abilities with their National Country Party colleagues in 
Queensland to see whether that situation can be corrected. 
I turn now to the railways. The Grants Commission report indicates that there were large increases in public railway deficits and in the net impact of railways on all State finances in the 1 974-75 financial year. The Grants Commission pointed out: 
The highest rate of increase was in Queensland where the net impact on the States finances increased by 63 per cent to $93m. 
In particular those increases resulted from concessions being granted to the coal miners in central Queensland. During the 1974-75 financial year all States except Queensland increased general freight rates. The Grants Commission noted that and said: 
The increase in freight traffic resulted mainly from increases in central Queensland coal traffic to meet export and powerhouse requirements. 
Does it not logically follow that the concession to central Queensland coal miners is not only adding to the burden of all Queenslanders but also is resulting in the Grants Commission having a harder look at the level of grants paid to the Queensland Government. In this respect I claim that the Queensland Government is lacking in administrative skill in the presentation of its case to the Grants Commission. 
Another serious consideration is that, notwithstanding the difficulties which the cost of the railways is placing on all Queenslanders, the Queensland Government flatly refused to cooperate with the Commonwealth in dealing with the cost of railways. I do not need to remind honourable senators of the enormous advantages which have accrued to Tasmania and to  Senator Bishop's  State of South Australia following railway transfers in those States but these advantages have been lost to Queensland because of the very peculiar attitude of the Queensland Government. I remind the Senate of a subject I raised here 3 years ago. When the Liberal and Country Parties came to power in Queensland in 1957 they introduced a system of confidential freight concession rates which advantaged certain commercial interests in the country towns of Queensland as against their competitors. This was an iniquitous arrangement but the unwholesome aspect about it was that the contractual arrangements were never published for everybody to see. 
Up till 1957 when the Australian Labor Party was in government in Queensland, whenever it entered into a similar arrangement the details of the contract were posted on the notice boards in the goods yards of all railway centres and appeared in the weekly notice of the Railway Department. This no longer happens. I can recall that in 1969 on the eve of a State election, pressure from the country areas of Queensland on the Premier, Joh Bjelke-Petersen, was so strong that he promised the country people that he would have a searching inquiry into these iniquitous confidential freight rate concessions and he appointed in 1969 a management services company named Beckingsale Management Services Pty Ltd. After 8 months it had completed its report but the year is now 1977 and the report has not seen the light of day. It has never been tabled in the Parliament despite the fact that many members of Parliament have asked for the document to be tabled. Newspapers have asked what has happened to the Beckingsale report. It has been pigeonholed, never to be released for public inspection. I raised this matter in 1971 in this chamber and it is still causing considerable concern in Queensland. Yet the report is locked away, never to be seen. 
I want to say a serious word about the devastating floods in north Queensland, particularly in the Ingham district. I would not be satisfied if I resumed my seat without referring to what the State Co-ordinator General,  Mr Schubert,  described as the 'flood of a century'. More than 1000 people were evacuated from their homes, 3000 homes were partially submerged and the sugar industry is estimated to have lost more than $20m. But what a marvellous community response there was. The Hinchinbrook Shire  Clerk, Mr Pender,  best described it when he said: 
Our first priority is to get people back into their homes and get the town cleaned up. The community spirit has been marvellous because as soon as people returning home find themselves out of trouble they are then going out to help people in a worse position. 
It was a very commendable community effort. That leads me to ask this question of the Senate and of anyone else who can assist with an answer: Is there any solution to the financial hardship that follows such disasters? The Premier of Queensland said that he was dismayed at the lack of insurance cover and the number of people who were unprotected in the area when he visited it. I can well understand this in view of the high premiums demanded by the private insurance companies. The Premier of Queensland, however, rejected a suggestion for a State-run disaster scheme. He asked who would qualify under it. He said that everyone would want to be in the cheap insurance scheme and probably I would agree with him, but the point I make is that if honourable senators opposite had supported the scheme for an Australian Government insurance fund proposed by my colleague 

 Senator Wheeldon and had been more intelligent at the time and less spiteful about the Whitlam Government's legislation for an Australian government insurance scheme, we may well now have had the answer to the financial situation that people are left in as a result of such disasters as happened at Ingham. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services. Will he table in the Senate requests that Australia Post and Telecom Australia have made to his Department for the purchase of properties pursuant to their needs? Does the Minister feel that his Department has acted quickly enough to ensure that these properties were purchased at the prices originally offered by the commissions? Is it a fact that the Minister proposes to delegate to the commissions the right to purchase their own properties without reference to his Department, as recommended in the Vernon report? Finally, do similar statutory bodies such as the Commonwealth Banking Corporation and Qantas Airways Ltd have the right to make their own property purchases without reference to his Department? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Construction. Is the Minister aware that the Minister for Construction said last week: 'I refuse to believe there is a recession in the building and construction industry'? If the Minister agrees with that statement, how does he reconcile it with the release by the Australian Bureau of Statistics of figures which show a fall of 1 3 per cent in private building approvals for February, which is a fall of 16 per cent since February 1976 to the lowest level in 19 months? Does the Minister agree that the tightening of loan funds is worsening this situation? Will the Government take immediate steps to rectify this chronic situation in the building industry? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
1 ) Did the Coalition Government in 1 964 make an agreement with Murphyores, or its associates, to develop a process for upgrading ilmenite to rutile grade material. 
Did the Coalition Government through the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization select Murphyores as its partner because it was an Australianowned company and held rights to substantial heavy mineral deposits in Central Queensland. 
Did the Coalition Government make this decision in line with a then policy to develop northern Australia or north of the Tropic of Capricorn. 
Has this process, jointly owned by the Government and Murphyores, been developed to the stage where it is ready for large scale commercial development. 
Is the Government aware that Murphyores has been planning for years to use this process for upgrading the millions of tonnes of ilmenite in the Fraser Island deposits. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security whether it is a fact that the telephone interpreter service in New South Wales has almost run out of money and that instead of the $40,000 necessary to keep up the service until 30 June, it will have less than one-tenth of this sum available. Will the additional funds sought under the Appropriation Bills and disscussed in last week's Estimates cover this $40,000 shortfall and any equivalent at other centres? If not, does the Minister expect to be able to call on further funds so that the service will continue to operate? 
-Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that, when the Prime Minister announced a ceiling on the growth in the Commonwealth Public Service, the Premier of Queensland said that there was no need for such a measure in Queensland, that Queensland was the greatest earner of export revenue of all the States, and that it was a developing State which needed an enlarged public service to administer it? Is the Minister aware that last week the Premier's  Deputy, Mr Knox,  said that the rate of increase in the Public Service in Queensland had remained almost static and that in the last 9 months it had increased by 0.05 per cent, one of the smallest increases ever in the Queensland Public Service. Does the Minister view this as a pause in recruitment in the Public Service in Queensland; which of the 2 leaders does he think is telling the truth; and which one of the 2 policies does he favour? 

 - Senator Harradine, are you addressing your remarks to the Department of Health estimates, divisions 325 to 335? You are talking about October last year, when you were not present and when these reports were adopted by the Parliament. 
-You mean  Senator Durack,  do you not? 
Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate confirm reports that  Mr Robinson,  the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, has said that  Mr BjelkePetersen  is lending a willing hand to the State electoral distribution commissioners by having working lunches with them? If this report is correct will the Minister inform the Senate who initiated the moves? Was  Mr Bjelke-Petersen's  presence by invitation from the commissioners or did he offer his services? Finally, will the same arrangements be available to the leaders of the Labor and Liberal parties respectively? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 


<graphic href="073232197706021_83_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="073232197706021_84_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="073232197706021_84_4.jpg"></graphic>

Dear  Senator McLaren, 

 Senator Durack has referred to me a question you asked in the Senate on Wednesday 23 March when you sought the tabling in the Senate of the names of all persons and companies which were in receipt of the superphosphate bounty for orders of 400 tonnes or more in 1976. The situation regarding the payment of the bounty is as follows. 
The Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Act 1963 requires that bounty be paid to the manufacturers of phosphatic fertilizers. This is in accordance with Section 5 1 (iii) of the Constitution which requires that bounty be paid on production or export. 
As required by the Act a return was tabled in the Parliament on 13 October 1976 for the 1975-76 year. This return shows the name and address of claimants under the Act and the amount of bounty received by each. 
Any purchaser of bountiable phosphatic fertilizers would derive a benefit from the payment of bounty but this benefit is by way of lower prices and is not a direct cash payment, nor does the department record purchases by users. 
Yours sincerely, John Howard 

 Mr Howard goes on to say that the Department does not record purchases by users. We find that when the Labor Government was in office the Minister for Customs and Excise, under the existing Act- it has not been repealed or amendedwas able to ascertain the names of and the record of purchases by users of superphosphate. That is the purpose of the amendment that has been moved tonight. The only information that I was able to get from the Minister was the 2 documents that I have had incorporated in  Hansard.  These documents set out in detail the names of the producers of superphosphate and nitrogenous fertilisers. All we get is a list showing the quantity of tonnes the companies have produced and the subsidy paid to those companies. Very extensive amounts are involved in some cases. I will not refer to the lists as they are in  Hansard.  When I made the request I was seeking the tabling of the names of the purchasers of superphosphate who were in receipt of a bounty payable on 400 tonnes or more. We now hope by way of this amendment to have information showing the purchasers of 200 tonnes or more. 
When I spoke to this earlier legislation in April of last year it took me 4 days to get these names incorporated in  Hansard.  It was obvious that honourable senators opposite did not want the information made known to the public at large. They did not want the public to know who were the recipents of this bounty. Honourable senators opposite were very touchy. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  their own Leader, was one of the biggest recipients. We know from the record that he was in receipt of a minimum amount of $5,000. If the requirement was for the list to give the total amount any user received we would have known the exact amount. The whole purpose of the amendment, as  Senator Douglas  McClelland said, is that public money is being expended and the public ought to be able to know or to find out just who is in receipt of these public moneys. I do not know why honourable senators opposite should be ashamed or afraid to have this information made public when some of their own leaders in their parliamentary party are recipients of that bounty. I am sure that some members of the Australian Labor Party were users of superphosphate when the Labor Party was in government. They would not have been ashamed of, or would not have wanted to cover up, the amount they received in bounty. Yet the farming members of the Liberal and National Country Parties do not want the general public to know what they are ripping off by way of a superphosphate bounty. The purpose of the amendment is to make their names known. 
I can tell from the attitude of the 3 honourable senators opposite who are vocal that they will oppose the amendment. I am not referring to the Minister, because he has not said anything yet. Nor do I refer to  Senator Davidson,  who is sitting in his seat but is not taking much interest. The 3 vocal honourable senators opposite indicate by their attitude that they will oppose the amendment that I have moved. In my view and in the view of many people outside the Parliament, it is most essential that the public should have access to the names of the recipients of the bounty. After the episode I had to go through here last year over 4 days - 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce, follows upon the questions asked by  Senator Jessop  and  Senator Georges.  Is the Minister aware that after long negotiations with State Tourist Ministers and the tourist industry a Bill for uniform legislation to register and control travel agents was introduced in the other place by the Honourable Frank Stewart, the then Minister for Tourism and Recreation? Was the Bill passed in the other place without amendment? Was it introduced into the Senate in October 1975, and did it lapse on the dissolution of the Parliament on 11 November 1975? In the light of the collapse of two major travel agencies in recent days, with resultant financial loss to consumers, why was this important consumer protection legislation not re-introduced by the present Government? 
I direct to the Minister representing the Treasurer a question which follows upon questions asked previously by  Senator Douglas  McClelland,  Senator Wriedt  and  Senator Gietzelt.  I have a particular interest in the interpretation of the indexation scale. I say respectfully that, having been in the chamber and having heard the questions and answers, I am now more confused than I was before I read the Budget documents. I ask the Minister whether, when he is seeking the information from the Treasury or the Treasurer, he will endeavour to assist me in interpreting the following passage at page 20 of the Budget speech: 
The new rate scale, which will have been operating only during the second half of the financial year will be indexed at that time by half the factor given by the annual indexation rules. 
Does that mean that the indexation scale that was introduced on 1 July 1977 will be halved and will then cease on 30 June 1978 and be replaced by a new system of indexation? I point out that at page 129 of the documents attached to the Budget Speech the new arrangement purports to be as follows: 
The new system will be indexed as from 1 July 1978. The indexation factor to be applied to the rate scale in 1978-79 will be half that given by the annual indexation rules . . . 
Yes, this year. So there is a lot of confusion. The Minister will be doing the Senate and the country a good turn if he can obtain from the Treasury an explanation that can be readily understood by us all. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In last year's Budget the Treasurer said: 
. the income brackets and the rate scale, the general rebate, the rebates for dependants, the housekeeper rebate and the sole parent rebate, are to be automatically adjusted each year for increases which have occurred in the Consumer Price Index. 
I now ask the Minister Is it a fact that, if that promise had been adhered to, taxpayers would be paying the same amount of tax as under the proposals of the new tax scheme? In the light of this, would he not find it very difficult, as we all do, to prove the claim of the Treasurer in this year's Budget that tax reductions have been granted to all people? 
-I associate myself wholeheartedly with the motion moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Withers,  and supported by my leader,  Senator Wriedt.  I do not intend to deal with Rex Connor's political career because previous speakers have already done so. However, I should like to speak of Rex Connor, the man. He was undoubtedly a strong, determined and fearless man. Around him were waged some of the most acute controversies of recent years. Yet there is ample and eloquent evidence of the deep affection and high respect with which he was regarded by those closely associated with him. Those who knew him best loved him most. He had human and personal qualities both rich and rare that inspired and retained that wealth and warmth of friendship. Rex Connor was the son of a waterside worker.  His  life and record of endeavour and achievement emphasises that we live in a land and under a system whereby the highest positions of power and authority are within the reach of any Australian child no matter how humble his origin. 
There was another side to Rex Connor- Rex Connor the sportsman. As a youth he played top rugby league at Wollongong and elsewhere, and he maintained a keen interest in the code throughout his lifetime. He enjoyed referring to Wollongong as England's graveyard, because of the local team's fine record of success against touring sides. A few days before his death I received from him a telegram which ended with the words 'punt high and follow on'. For the uninitiated, the tactic implies keeping the pressure on your opponent at all times. That is the way in which Rex Connor applied himself throughout his lifetime. To his relatives I extend my deepest sympathy. 
-by leave- I did not have the honour to serve in this Senate with the late  Dr Felix  Dittmer. In fact, I succeeded him in this place. There can be no doubt that he was a man of scholarship and wide experience, particularly in the pastoral areas of Queensland where he had a close association with the Australian Workers Union. In fact, in those areas he became somewhat of a legend. There can be no doubt also that he served faithfully and well and with distinction to himself as a State member of parliament and a member of this Senate. I join with my colleagues in expressing to the members of his family my deepest sympathy in their sad loss. 

 Honourable senators having stood in their places- 

I present the following petition from 102 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australian respectfully showeth: 
That those who have retired and those who are about to retire, are being severely and adversely affected by inflation and Australian economic circumstances. 
The continuance of the means test on pensions causes undue hardship to them. 
We call on the Government to immediately abolish the means test on all aged pensions. 
To ensure a pension for all on retirement, and a guarantee that all Australian citizens will retire with dignity. 
Acknowledge that a pension is a right and not a charity. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I address my question to the Minister for Administrative Services. Is it a fact that the Government does not propose to extend the lease of Bulimba Hostels Pty Ltd but instead to transfer the lease to Telecom Australia? If this is so, what does the future hold for the 300 low income earners, two-thirds of whom are pensioners, who will become homeless? I ask this question in the light of the fact that already each night in Brisbane an average of 1,000 homeless have to ballot for a bed offered by charitable and welfare organisations. 
I address my question to  Senator Durack  in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, which is the portfolio that he held until a few days ago. Is the Minister aware that- many branches of the Returned Services League are claiming that standards at the Repatriation Hospital at Greenslopes have deteriorated as a result of staff reductions? Will the Minister look at the staff establishment at the Greenslopes Hospital with a view to restoring previous standards and relieving the concern of the inmates and the RSL branches which look after the inmates' welfare? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources and follows upon the answer the Minister gave earlier to  Senator Douglas  McClelland. The Minister said that he thought speculation on a resources tax policy, prior to the announcement to any decision, was armful. My question refers also to the answer he gave to  Senator Button  in which he said that he would rather accept a statement on a resources tax policy from the  Deputy  Prime Minister than any State Premier. Is the Minister aware that the source of information given by the Premier of Queensland when he assured the Queensland Parliament on Thursday evening last that a resources tax would not be imposed on any mining project in that State was not the  Deputy  Prime Minister but, in fact, the Prime Minister himself? Will the Minister advise the Senate whether the Premier's statement is correct and that therefore a resources tax policy decision apparently has been made. 
After having heard the reply by the Minister for Industry and Commerce to a question asked by the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Wriedt,  I am prompted to ask the Minister whether he is aware that the 
Prime Minister is reported as having said on 16 July 1976: 
Any changes that may be made- if any-are ones that will not prejudice in any sense the independence and strength of the Industries Assistance Commission. That's a categoric and absolute statement. 
Again, the Prime Minister, when addressing the New South Wales branch of the Chamber of Manufactures on 26 August 1977, stated: 
In the current economic circumstances, we have decided not to send to the IAC the Ave remaining references on metal products under the IAC 's tariff review program. 
I now ask: Are the Prime Minister's views of 1976 consistent with those expressed in August 1977? If not, which statement represents government policy? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is he aware of the comment in the  Australian Financial Review  of 13 September in relation to the new tax averaging system for farmers? The report states: 

 Mr Lynch made no mention of the possible abuse of the system by farmers reducing their taxable income below $3,750 by taking out income equalisation deposits. 
Can the Minister elaborate on this possibility for abuse of the system? Is the Treasurer aware of the potential for abuse of the system? Does the Minister know of any steps taken by the Treasurer or whether the Treasurer intends to take steps to prevent it? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I am not calling on him to speculate but rather I am calling on his experience to give us the answers to these questions and to put at ease not only the Senate but also the Australian nation, although I have been told that one who speculates must accumulate. In view of the fact that Australia's trade account has recorded a small surplus in the period since the November 1976 devaluation, and as there are currently no apparent cries for further devaluation coming from any of the major rural or manufacturing lobbies, can the Minister give any reason for the current growing speculation against the Australian dollar other than that the business community is expecting the Australian inflationary situation to worsen? If not, how does the Minister account for the statement by the Prime Minister on 18 September that the Australian inflation rate is now under control? 
I share the concern of  Senator Primmer  regarding the future of interest rates. As a consequence I am prompted to address a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is the Minister aware that the Prime Minister, at the beginning of his tour of Queensland last week, foreshadowed a fall in interest rates? Does the Minister feel concerned that the Reserve Bank does not share the Prime Minister's optimism? I say that because in a confidential document leaked last week it stated: 
. in the context of a weak balance of payments and a high rate of inflation forecasts suggest the possibility of upward pressures on private short term interest rates (with associated consequences for expectations about official interest rates). 
Does that mean that we cannot expect a downward movement in interest rates in the future? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I ask him whether he is aware that the well respected financial journal, the  Economist,  in an article on 24 September entitled: 'Fraser takes the muddle way', claimed: 
Currency speculators are encouraged both by the Fraser Government's consistently poor timing on exchange-rate changes and its impressive record for caving in under pressure. 
In view of the widespread circulation of this journal in international financial circles, does it now appear that the Prime Minister's procrastination and indecision have contributed most to uncertainty about the strength of the Australian dollar and are diminishing our standing amongst international financial circles? 
-Seeing that  Senator Walters  is so interested in appropriations, I have a question for her colleague,  Senator Durack,  in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Is the Minister aware of reports that the Government plans to spend Sim on an advertising campaign promoting the Government's policies relating to employment assistance schemes? Given that the total provision for expenditure on information services in the estimates of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations for the 1977-78 financial year is only $478,000, will the Minister advise the Senate from where the Government intends obtaining the additional $522,000 to finance this publicity scheme and where it will appear in the appropriations which are now before the Parliament for consideration? 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer, whether he is aware that under section 4 of the Financial Corporations Act 1974 provision is made to supervise the activities of building societies and bring them under certain controls which would appear to be to the benefit of the building societies' shareholders and borrowers. Will the Minister, as a result of the recent Queensland experience, use his persuasion in the Party room to bring building societies within the scope of the Act and have an inquiry carried out into the affairs of the Queensland Permanent Building Society, so that the sad story of mismanagement there can be disclosed and thus prevent similar occurrences from happening in other States? 
I welcome the opportunity to speak on certain financial aspects of the economy by virtue of the first reading debate on the Oilseeds Levy Bill 1977 which is before the Senate this evening. Before I say anything further let me recall the speeches that were made by  Senator Baume  and his colleagues when the Loan Bill 1975 was before this Parliament. Those of us who know something about government financial regulations, Treasury regulations, financial procedures, government to government finance and operations, the workings of the Public Accounts Committee and the requirements of the AuditorGeneral recall the speeches made by  Senator Baume  and his colleagues on that occasion. We recall the most deplorable and outlandish statements which were made by  Senator Baume  and those who supported him. They reduced the prestige of this Parliament to its lowest ebb and their actions must be remembered as an exercise in futility. They were exposed for what they were. 
Yet we heard  Senator Baume  again tonight- he has not learnt anything from his lesson of two years ago- laying down the financial policy for this country. There is an old saying: Old dogs for the hard road and puppies for the footpath'. I suggest to  Senator Baume  that he switch back to the footpath before he is run over when matters of financial consideration are before the Senate. Honourable senators who have spoken on financial matters that have been before the chamber for some time, whether in Budget debate or on the first reading of a money Bill, all seem somehow to think that there is great virtue in the level of this year's deficit compared to what it was last year. Budget Statement No. 1 dealing with financial affairs shows that the actual deficit for 1976-77 was some $2,2 17m. The same document also shows that the deficit this year is some $500m less. That to me seems to purport what most of the Government senators who have spoken on these financial matters want to drive home to us on this side of the chamber. They say that there is a deficit of some $500m less. I have before me this evening a statement of expenditure of financial transactions 1977-78. This is published monthly and is known in financial circles as the Niemeyer monthly statement of receipts and expenditure for the Government. It shows that for the three months ending 30 September 1977 the deficit was running at $2,422m or some $200m greater than was anticipated. Multiplied by four to give the picture for the total year, it would mean that we have a deficit of $800m. We are going backwards. 
An honourable senator opposite says, 'What about the seasonal factors . 
Much stress has been made about the importance of a deficit. Before I say anything more on the Budget or on the financial arrangements of the Commonwealth, let me be permitted to repeat a point that was made by my leader, the Honourable Gough Whitlam, in his attack on the Budget in the other place on the evening 23 August 1977. 1 think it is important for honourable senators to listen to what  Mr Whitlam  said when replying to the Budget. He said: 
It is irrelevant to the economic circumstance or the current economic needs of Australia. 
To many of us that might appear to be a very forthcoming and alarming statement. I can understand that particularly to those of us who have felt over a long period of years that Budget strategy is supposed to have some beneficial effect on the economy the statement by the Leader of the Opposition might be one for consideration. 
Let me take some figures from the White Paper on the national income to indicate the total effect of the national income on the economy last year. The White Paper shows that gross national product for last financial year was $81 billion. Of that amount, 56 per cent, or $46 billion, accrued to persons by way of wages, salaries and supplements. In the previous financial year, 58 per cent, or 2 per cent more than in the subsequent financial year, went to people by way of wages, salaries and supplements. In that same period, $25,8 18m, $25.8 billion, or 32 per cent of the gross national product, went to enterprises as gross operating surplus, as opposed to- and this is the point- at least 30 per cent of gross national product in the following year. This represents an increase of 2 per cent on the one hand and a reduction of 2 per cent on the other hand. I submit that it must be abundantly clear to financial students like  Senator Baume  and to his supporters on the Government side that one effect of last year's Budget was to reduce by 2 per cent the share of total gross domestic product going to wages, salaries and supplements and to increase by the same percentage the amount going to enterprises as gross operating surplus. 
I make this point: If it is thought that this change is beneficial, I hope some honourable senator on the other side of the chamber will get up to argue the case. In the absence of any honourable senator being forthcoming, I hope that honourable senators opposite will remain condemned as the financial troglodytes they are and which they were branded as being in 1975 in their false exposure of loan matters in that year. I repeat: I challenge any honourable senator opposite who is going to speak after me in this debate or in some subsequent financial debate to show to me how that 2 per cent reduction in wages and 2 per cent increase in surpluses is worthwhile to the economy. Returning to the import of the Budget in respect of financial considerations, I point out many Treasurers, not the least of whom was a very distinguished Labor Treasurer- I refer to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports,  Mr Frank  Crean- claimed that too much is asked of Budgets and too little resort is given to things which ought to be done outside the Budget. 
He said a lot of things. We made a mistake with him. We had a good Treasurer and did not realise it. But we are different from honourable senators sitting opposite; when we make a mistake we know it. In Frank Crean 's case not only did we recognise our mistake; we elevated him to the position of  Deputy  Prime Minister of this country. I think he is a man who has served this Parliament with a lot of distinction. But I repeat, as former Treasurers have said, too little resort is given to things which ought to be done outside the Budget. As an example I quote from the Budget Papers as they relate to national income and expenditure. They state: 
Unemployment in Australia is rising because total employment is not rising. 
Total employment in Australia has not increased in the past 2 years despite the fact that some 160,000 people would have liked to have worked but were unable to find employment. I am given to believe that 180,000 people who are willing to work will be unable to find work at the commencement of the new year. I ask honourable senators, as sensible and intelligent people: How on earth can we expect an economy to boom or to respond in that sort of situation, when people are prepared to work and cannot find jobs? I ask the Government quite sincerely: When will it do something about this situation? Surely the duty of the moment should be clear to honourable senators opposite. Unemployment is the real crisis which is confronting us today. 
The Budget Papers disclose that, whilst we have a high level of unemployment, there are certain areas in which there are shortages of skills. This seems to be quite an unnatural state of affairs. It seems to me- I hope it seems to honourable senators opposite who are interested in this subject- that we should be endeavouring to match the people who are out of work with the jobs which still need to be filled. I know that, when one is in opposition, it is quite easy to put up certain propositions, but it is very difficult to achieve a result. But the fact that people are out of work and there are employers who require employees with certain skills concerns me. This leads me to the point that the situation which gravely concerns me- it is one which will concern us all in the immediate years ahead- is that we are going to be desperately short of skilled men. I wish this point to register with the Government. We are going to be desperately short of men with skills in the trades. 
When one talks of skills one immediately thinks of apprenticehips. I agree, that the present apprenticeship system should be maintained and aided where necessary, as happens at the present time. There can be no argument about that. Butand it's a big 'but'- the big issue is that supplementary to this there should be a system whereby older youths or young men who for various reasons did not or could not procure apprenticeships can be afforded the opportunity, even when well into their twenties if need be, to obtain theoretical and practical training to permit their entry into a skilled trade. This should not be difficult to achieve. In support of that opinion I cite, for an example, the post-war training facilities afforded ex-service personnel to acquire both trade and professional qualifications under the post-war reconstruction scheme. 
I further cite the substantial amounts which are available throughout Australia for academic training at universities and colleges of advanced education. Whilst I recognise the essential character and need for much of tertiary education I draw attention to some of the less practical faculties particularly those producing graduates who are now finding their degrees neither a means of gaining employment nor a contributory factor to national productivity. I submit that some of that money could be used for apprenticeship training. I believe that it is a very serious problem.  Mr President,  I do not need to tell you that this is a situation which calls for urgent study and investigation. I hope that will be forthcoming from this Government or from any Government which succeeds it. I turn to unemployment. In December 1975 the  Hon.  A. A. Street, the Minister for Employment and Industrial relations stated: 
I am hopeful that job opportunities will start to increase early in the life of the new Government, but it will probably take about six months for this to happen. 
On 27 November 1975 the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  stated: 
We have a comprehensive strategy to restore prosperity. The major element in this strategy is to bring about growth in production in the private sector. 
In answer to question No. 679  Senator Carrick,  that master of brevity, stated: 
The Government's strategy towards economic recovery and the restoration of full employment is by now well known. The Government is concerned to overcome inflation as the necessary first step in this strategy, and to reduce Government expenditure and allow room for the private sector to expand and again provide job opportunies for all Australians. 
I say to honourable senators who are sitting opposite and looking intelligent, or endeavouring to look intelligent: Let us get to the bottom of this matter. What are the real facts? The Australian Bureau of Statistics estimated that 317,000-odd or 5.2 per cent of the estimated labour force were unemployed in August 1977. In August 1976, 264,000-odd people or 4.4 per cent were unemployed. In August 1975, 243,800 people or 4.1 per cent were unemployed. Yet we find that the figures for persons registered as unemployed with the Commonwealth Employment Service are considerably higher- I am using the month of August as the mean- and show the following statistics: In 1974, 107,100 people; in 1975, 248,200 people; in 1976, 267,900 people; and in 1977, 334,000 people. 
But what makes the Government's performance even more deplorable than those figures indicate is that Professor Warren Hogan, who is an adviser to the Government and a member of the Government's economic consultative committee, has pointed out in no uncertain manner that by February 1 978 unemployment is likely to exceed 400,000 people and it may be as high as 6.5 per cent of the work force. Honourable senators on the Government side should hang their heads in shame at such a deplorable situation. If they do not want to accept the word of one of their own advisers, that is Professor Hogan, I point out that his predictions are supported by the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economics. What an object lesson this is for the Government when seen over the months it has been in office. 
This Government was going to lead us out of the economic wilderness. It was going to do all sorts of things. It was going to lead us into prosperity. But what do we find the Government has done? By its performance it has been a Moses in reverse. It should be condemned. Those of us who have been around for some time recall the Liberal promises over the years. I recall the Liberal promise of putting value back into the pound, to give the boy a chance. I hark back into the distant past to Lloyd George who fought an election on the basis that if the country elected him he would hang the Kaiser. He was elected but the Kaiser died peacefully in his bed in Holland 20 years later. We have seen all these promises of the Liberal Party repudiated over the years. We know that what has been written of the Liberals down through the years is equally true of Liberals today. A great author said about them: 
A merciful providence fashioned them hollow, on purpose that they might their principles swallow. 
Before I resume my seat I think it is appropriate, in the atmosphere of confrontation which this Government is endeavouring to set up with the trade union movement, that I make some mention of trade unions. I have been a trade unionist all my working life. I believe sincerely that only those who have been closely associated with the trade union movement know the requirements of the working class people of Australia. Industrial disputes or strikes, as honourable senators on the Government side want to call them, represent only a small item of trade union activity. Unfortunately I say this quite concernedly- that is the item which receives the widest Press publicity while all other activities of the trade union movement pass without recognition. We have about two per cent of the trade union movement involved in strikes and that receives 98 per cent of the publicity which is given to the trade union movement. On any given day the trade union movement negotiating in industrial disputes solves thousands of problems on behalf of its members. It looks at social injustices, wage injustices, incorrect payment of wages, victimisation unjust sacking and the finding of employment for many members. 
The trade union movement contributes to countless charities. Its officers and members are continually engaged in community services. They sit on committees, more often unpaid than paid, which deal with employer and employee considerations. They serve on committees of other organisations in the community which are interested in the social welfare and the economic welfare of the community. I do not think anyone can dispute that. Governments of all political persuasions readily admit that many of their most important committees- I mention this to honourable senators opposite so that they can give it a lot of consideration- are unable to function without the full support and co-operation of the trade union movement. The trade union movement will not and cannot accept restrictions upon its right to involve itself in the political life of the community, and this seems to be one of the bones of contention today. Trade unions, as the organised strength of the lower and middle income workers, have an obligation to exercise their civic responsibility and they do it. 
The standard of living of the Australian people depends upon the strong demands of the unions to improve conditions, social services, education, housing and a host of other things. I have always felt that trade unions initiate the demands and they need to have a Labor Party in government to implement their policies. This is the basis of the trade union movement. It initiates the demands and looks to the Australian Labor Party in government to implement them. Can anyone in this chamber- I challenge honourable senators opposite- deny that Australian workers, after 50 years of service, are entitled to a retirement allowance many times the allowance which a worker receives today after a period of faithful and loyal service? He should be entitled to full pay when he is off work through sickness or injury. He should be entitled to free medical treatment, free education for his children, guaranteed employment and a decent home. These are political issues. Do not let us deny it. Surely no honourable senator in this chamber would challenge the right of the trade union movement to intercede in these matters. Of course no one would if he were honest with himself. Surely no one would challenge the trade union's right to interest itself in these matters. 
Having given that benediction to the trade union movement let me say that the great Australian Labor Party is proud of its association with the trade union movement and I sincerely hope that during the time that I will serve in this 
Senate I will be able to work to ensure a strengthening of the great ties that exist between the ALP and that most important section of the working class- the trade union movement. As I said earlier, having given that benediction to the trade union movement I offer this suggestion very sincerely to the Government: In its policy of confrontation with the trade union movement because it thinks it will serve some political expediency, the Government, I suggest as a fellow who has been around for a long time, is on the wrong course. I earnestly suggest to the Government that it should back off before it is too late, get around the table and talk with the great trade union movement and come to some compromise solution that can only help this country. 
I end my speech with these words: Parliament owes every man in this country a decent living. The answer will be that there is not enough money. If we were in danger the money would be found, yet the nation can be strengthened from the homes and kitchens of the poor as much as it can be strengthened with battleships and Fills. The working man has not forgotten the education he has got over the past 45 years. His grandfather knew poverty, his father knew the cause of it and the working man of today knows the remedy for it and looks to the Parliament, to members on both sides, to provide a remedy for it. 
I am prompted to use the first reading stage of this money Bill to draw to the attention of the Senate a matter which is causing grave concern to many Queenslanders, particularly to shareholders of the Queensland Permanent Building Society but also to borrowers of that building society, which recently was forced to close its doors after a run had been made on it. By way of preamble I say that in 1974 the Whitlam Labor Government introduced into this Parliament the Financial Corporations Bill, the main purpose of which was to regulate the activities of non-bank financial institutions. This was done in the interests of effective management of the economy. We know that one of the most important sections of the non-bank financial institutions are the permanent building societies. Specific provisions were written into the legislation under Part IV to regulate the financial activities of these societies.  Mr Deputy President,  you will recall that since the last World War there has been a proliferation of non-bank financial institutions. It was necessary that the Government endeavour to legislate to bring them under some form of regulation. As I said earlier, the building societies were a very important part of this set up. 
I am a great admirer of building societies. They afford to young married people and working class people the opportunity to buy a home of their own under much more generous conditions than those offered by the banking institutions. I do not want what I have to say in this address to be misconstrued as an attack on the permanent building societies generally. I want it to be construed as highlighting what can happen within building societies if there is not careful supervision and regulation of their activities. I referred earlier to the Financial Corporations Bill 1974. Unfortunately, the Bill was never proclaimed. Apart from paying lip service to the Bill when it was in opposition the present Government has not lifted a finger to have the Bill proclaimed. I submit to the Senate that if ever there was a need for a financial corporations commission to be established it is now, particularly when one learns of the experience of the mismanagement of the Queensland Permanent Building Society. 
For months the activities of the Queensland Permanent Building Society have been widely publicised. There have been allegations of mismanagement. Most importantly there have been very strong allegations of discrepancies in the accounts of the Society ranging from amounts of $1,500,000 to $2m. There have been innumerable requests to the Queensland Government for an inquiry into the Society's affairs or an explanation of some sort. These requests have initiated from such prestigious organisations as the Law Council of Queensland and chartered accountants' organisations, not to mention the many heavy requests that have been made by the general public. But the Government has attempted to sweep the whole matter under the carpet by refusing an inquiry and saying that the Queensland Permanent Building Society was capably managed and that the discrepancy was due to a computer error. 
We in Queensland know that a team of chartered accountants has been going through the accounts of the Queensland Permanent Building Society with a fine toothcomb. We are told that they have been unable to pinpoint from where the discrepancies sprung. Some weeks ago there was a run on the Queensland Permanent Building Society and it was forced to close its doors. I did not appreciate that. It meant that many young working class people were denied further the opportunity of owning a home of their own. At the time of the run the Queensland Government and the Premier of Queensland endeavoured to blame the collapse of the Society on  Mr Kevin  Hooper, the Labor member for Archerfield and the shadow Treasurer in the Queensland Parliament.  Mr Kevin  Hooper had exposed the Society's activities in the Parliament around that time. 
I am told that he started the run. I am not sucked in easily on these matters. I believe that  Mr Kevin  Hooper acted responsibly and properly as a member of parliament in bringing the matter before the Queensland Legislative Assembly. It is utter nonsense for the Queensland Premier and the Queensland Government and honourable senators who sit on the government benches in this chamber and support them in this claim to endeavour to pass the buck to  Mr Hooper  for the Queensland Permanent Building Society having to close its doors. 
Allow me to make a comparison. There were two runs on the Metropolitan Permanent Building Society of Queensland at the same time as there was a run on the Queensland Permanent Building Society. But the Metropolitan Permanent Building Society was able to withstand both of them. I ask commonsense honourable senators: Why was that Society able to withstand them? It must be obvious that the Metropolitan Permanent Building Society was an efficiently managed Society. Apparently, the Reserve Bank of Australia agrees whole-heartedly with this contention. It disagrees with the Queensland Premier and the Queensland Government. The Reserve Bank refused to come to the aid of the Queensland Permanent Building Society in any rescue operation. It said that quite emphatically. At the same time, through the voice of the Acting Treasurer,  Mr Eric  Robinson, the Reserve Bank said that it would guarantee any permanent building society whose affairs were well managed. It said that it had no hesitation whatsoever in guaranteeing the operations and wholeheartedly supporting the activities of the Metropolitan Permanent Building Society. Am I correct in drawing the inference from that that the Reserve Bank said on the one hand that the Queensland Permanent Building Society was mismanaged and that it would get no help whereas on the other hand the Metropolitan Permanent Building Society was well managed and th Bank would have no hesitation in guaranteeing its shareholders' money? 
I am told that that is not necessarily so. Both societies had the same ratio of borrowings and adhered to the same requirements of the State Government regarding their deposits yet the Reserve Bank said no to one and yes to the other. Do not let us delude ourselves. The Reserve Bank said that it would wholeheartedly guarantee the Metropolitan Permanent Building Society. I can well understand why it would want to do that. It is a very efficiently managed and highly respected institution. There can be no denying that the Reserve 
Bank said that it would not touch the Queensland Permanent Building Society with a 40 foot pole. Yet, in the face of this, the Queensland Government still claims that the Queensland Permanent Building Society is capably managed. It refuses an inquiry into its activities. I ask the Queensland Premier and his Government: How can the Queensland Permanent Building Society be capably managed when inside administrative decisions are being made, lurks and perks are given to the people running the Society and favoured situations are offered to its friends? I inform the Senate this afternoon of a rent free home and an executive motor car being provided to  Mr Lloyd  Price, the General Manager. 
That is Lloyd Price. Thirty cars were provided for members of the staff of the Queensland Permanent Building Society. I am not naive enough to think that this does not go on in big business; but ohe would hardly expect it to go on in an organisation that has been established primarily to provide homes for people at the lowest possible interest ratenot as an investment company for those who are favoured enough to be around the honey pot. I repeat that 30 cars were provided for members of the staff of the Queensland Permanent Building Society. On top of that, 50 car allowances were provided other members of the staff. But honourable senators have not heard anything yet. Superannuation was provided at the rate of 10 per cent on a non-contributory basis. The rates of interest on loans to employees of the Society were at their lowest at the highest managerial level and increased on a sliding scale in relation to the seniority of the employees down the ladder. 
Those of us who are proud to be Queenslanders know that when the Queensland Permanent Building Society closed its doors it was taken over by government direction by the State Government Insurance Office Building Society. I should imagine that members of the Senate would be surprised to hear me say this afternoon that the State Government Insurance Office Building Society refused to take over a $lm loan which was granted to a favoured person at an interest rate of 1 1% per cent. The State Government Insurance Office Building Society refused to take over the loan not only because it was granted at such a favourable interest rate but also because the loan was badly in arrears. The State Government Insurance Office Building Society also refused to take over a further $12m worth of loans because they were also in arrears and because the conditions under which the loans were granted were too favourable for any business proposition to be able to run them successfully. 
I think the State Government Insurance Office Building Society should be congratulated for pulling a society of over 100,000 investors out of financial no-man's land. I am not condemning the State Government Insurance Office Building Society because it would not take over loans that were in arrears; rather I congratulate it on its business acumen. I also congratulate it for coming in and rescuing the life savings of, in many instances, pensioners. The whole of their savings throughout their lifetime had been invested in the Queensland Permanent Building Society and it was only through the generosity- if I may use that word- of the State Government Insurance Office Building Society in taking over the now defunct Queensland Permanent Building Society that the life savings of over 100,000 investors were rescued. Rumours are still floating, around in Brisbane that, a couple of days before the doors of the Queensland Permanent Building Society were finally closed and it went into liquidation, the General Manager's rent free home concession was converted to an interest free loan. 
I could go on endlessly this afternoon with examples of mismanagement in this Society. I shall take one at random. I refer to a loan that was granted on a $1,270 deposit. That deposit amounted to only 3.3 per cent of the value of the home, whereas under the regulations or the conditions under which these societies normally work the deposit is 10 per cent. One of the most despicable things of all is that the buildings held by the Society under mortgage were over valued to offset discrepancies in the balance sheet. The Society had been employing its own valuers and, to cover up discrepancies in its balance sheet, it over valued the buildings that it had on mortgage. If that is not enough to show that an inquiry into the affairs of the Queensland Permanent Building Society is warranted I do not know what is. I also believe that an inquiry into its affairs is warranted to protect the good name of the permanent building societies that are as capably managed and are running as efficiently as the one I mentioned earlier- the Metropolitan Building Society of Queensland. Even for the sake of clearing the good name of permanent building societies, the Premier of Queensland and his Government should institute an inquiry. 
I touch briefly on one other matter before I resume my seat. I said earlier that for months and months before the doors of the Queensland 
Permanent Building Society were closed there was widespread Press publicity and there were allegations about a discrepancy of some millions of dollars in the accounts of the Society. The people of Queensland, including  Mr Kevin  Hooper and myself, want to know what has happened to bring about this discrepancy. When the administration of the Queensland Permanent Building Society was taken over by the State Government Insurance Office Building Society, did that Society take over the discrepancy? I would not think so. I think the  Chairman  of the Board-  Mr Eric  Riding- would be too hardheaded for that. As I said earlier, he would not want to touch it with a 40-foot pole. So, if the discrepancy has been discounted, how has it been discounted? Has it been paid out of the contingency fund to which all building societies contribute a portion of their earnings? 
If it has been paid out of the contingency fund, surely that is a frank admission by the Premier and the Queensland Government that there has been mismanagement and that this discrepancy was not a computer error. Mismanagement having been acknowledged by the Premier and the Queensland Government by discounting the discrepancy out of the contingency fund, has not the case for mismanagement been firmly established and should not the people who have been responsible and who have mishandled the life savings of others in the manner in which they have be exposed to all and sundry? Whilst I have made all those points about administrative decisions within the Queensland Permanent Building Society, to my mind the question which remains unanswered and which is deserving of an answer is: What has happened to the discrepancy? Where did it come from and how has it been discounted? 
As a final comment I say that I believe that the Queensland Government has been given the wrong advice in this matter. I find it extraordinary indeed that despite the overwhelming evidence against the Queensland Permanent Building Society the Premier still flatly refuses to have an inquiry. He does this despite the fact that he must be aware- and he is an astute politicianthat public sentiment is running very strongly against him and his Government over this matter. He cannot attempt any longer to sweep it under the carpet and blame  Mr Hooper  because people will not fall for that trick. I hope that the Premier will think about what I have said in the Senate this afternoon. I suggest to him that he should not only look at the Gold Coast Building Society but also at the Sun State Building Society which used to operate on the Gold Coast and which was taken over in the amalgamation of the Queensland Permanent Building Society. I think that if he puts his thinking cap on and has a look at that organisation he might change his mind about a few things. 
I sincerely appeal to the Premier of Queensland and his Government to explain to the shareholders, the borrowers and the people of Queensland where the discrepancy of some millions of dollars has been accounted for. That is the big question. It is a matter that is creating doubt in the public mind and the sooner it is cleared up the better it will be for all concerned. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Is it a fact that the Australian Government provided a specific purpose grant of $325,000 last year to the Queensland Government for the construction of the Lake Julius water scheme? Is it also a fact that in Mount Isa yesterday the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  stated publicly that if the National Party candidate was not elected State and Commonwealth government funds for the Lake Julius water scheme would not be provided? Has the Premier of Queensland the right to determine the allocation of funds by the Commonwealth on the basis of whichever member is representing an electorate? Does the statement by the Queensland Premier represent Commonwealth Government policy? 
-My question to the Leader of the Goverment in the Senate relates to my question to him yesterday about statements made in Mount Isa by the Premier of Queensland. Will the Minister give an assurance to the Senate and the people of Queensland that where Australian Government funds are provided to the Queensland Government they will be used strictly in accordance with the guidelines set down by the Australian Government? 
I rise to take part in this debate and to use the procedures of the Senate to air one or two matters that are concerning me gravely with respect to conduct in the election campaign in Queensland. Before I say anything at all about those matters, I commend  Senator Missen  on his contribution to this debate. I wish we had more time available to us this afternoon because I would like to join with him in debating the merits of Queensland continuing to remain as a Commonwealth Grants Commission claimant State, claiming that it is disadvantaged against the standard States of Victoria and New South Wales. At the same time it is coming under severe criticism from the Commonwealth Grants Commission for its inadequate methods in some forms of tax collection and revenue producing fields. One noticeable example is the royalties charged on minerals and the special freight concession rates. However, as time is limited this afternoon, I am afraid that that debate cannot be pursuednow.Iwillfinditveryinterestingtodebate the matter the next time the Grants Commission report comes before this Parliament. I look forward keenly to that debate. 
As I said earlier, I am hoping to use the procedures of the Senate this afternoon to speak on one or two matters in Queensland that concern me very much.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I shall endeavour to connect my remarks on those matters with the grants that have been made available from the Commonwealth Parliament to the State Parliament. I am gravely concerned about certain events that have occurred during the State general election campaign in Queensland. I refer particularly to the statement made in Mount Isa recently by the Premier of Queensland. The plain fact is that the Premier used his position in order to threaten to pervert the parliamentary process. I have been involved in the political scene for some time now. But never before have I seen an attempt to blackmail the electors like this threat to the electors in Mount Isa. The Commonwealth Parliament had previously appropriated an amount of $325,000 towards the completion of the Lake Julius Dam at Mount Isa. That dam will supply water to industry and the community of Mount Isa. 
The Premier of Queensland was given wide newspaper and radio publicity when he was reported to have said State aid for the Lake Julius Dam would not necessarily continue if Mount Isa electors threw out  Mr Bertoni  who is the sitting National Party member for Mount Isa. In fact, the Premier inferred that any member for Mount Isa who was not a National Party member would be denied his right to make representation to the State Government on behalf of the people who elected him. The position is as simple as that. Surely the right to make representations must be a fundamental right of any member of Parliament. I do not think any honourable senator would doubt that it would be the duty of any member of Parliament to try to do everything possible for his electorate. I believe that the  Australian  today summed up the situation adequately in its editorial. It stated: 
In one sentence,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  has injured the rights democrats have fought for centuries to preserve. He has served notice that any Parliament he controls may not recognise any Opposition. 

 - Senator Coleman makes a good point when she says that the Premier may not even recognise his coalition partner, the Liberal Party. The editorial in the  Australian  continues: 
It is a statement- 
This refers to the statement made by the Premier of Queensland -which makes all those jokes about Queensland under  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  being the Deep North very grim jokes indeed. 
I believe that I am a proud Queenslander. I am very much attached to my State. But how should I feel when I hear colleagues say that they tell their friends not to holiday in Queensland so that they can keep their money in Australia? It is a grim joke indeed. So serious is this threat not to spend a Commonwealth Grant of $323,000 on the Lake Julius Dam project for which the money was appropriated, that I asked a question in this Parliament, followed by another question this morning. I am indeed grateful to the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Withers,  who said quite emphatically, that as far as the Commonwealth Government is concerned money allocated to Queensland for special purposes would be spent in accordance with the guidelines for which that money was given. I am pleased to obtain that assurance from the Leader of the Government in the Senate because I think it will be very comforting and satisfying not only to the electors of Mount Isa but also to all the people of Queensland. No doubt those people might have been intimidated by the Premier in the past although we did not know anything about it. They could be intimidated even in the future by the threat that if they do not vote for the Premier and his candidates they will receive no benefits whatsoever. If this exposure has not achieved anything other than putting an end to this intimidation, the whole exercise has been worth while. 
This matter was regarded so seriously by the Leader of the Opposition of that State,  Mr Tom  Burns, that he has written to the AttorneyGeneral,  Mr Lickiss,  the official responsible for enforcing the law impartially. The attention of the Attorney-General has been invited to two sections of the Criminal Code, the one that  Mr Zaphir  was charged with by the Premier of Queensland, and section 102 which applies specifically to elections. 

 Mr Burns asked that if the statement of the Premier had been correctly reported- and there is ample evidence on tape that the Premier said there was nothing wrong with the statements he had made- he should be charged, as would any other member of the community, and given an opportunity to defend himself in court. If he is found guilty he should vacate his seat in accordance with the Criminal Code of the State. I see nothing wrong with that. If the Premier of Queensland thought it good enough to apply to an officer of the Storemen and Packers Union, it is surely good enough to apply to himself. 
It appears that the Premier of Queensland has lost his cool. He is like a fighter on the ropes and buckling at the knees. Let us consider what happened recently at Blackall, the reference to which by  Senator Missen  I appreciated, and to the statements made there by the Premier regarding Miss Australia of 1968, the former Miss Helen Newton, a very well-respected and highly regarded citizen not only of Blackall but of the State of Queensland. 
-As the honourable senator interjects, a lovely girl. Because she had the temerity to ask at a meeting in Blackall whether he regarded all people who are antiuranium mining as communists and socialists, he referred to  Mrs Bonner-  as she is known now- a married woman, as a crow. What a despicable outburst against the morals and character of a well-respected citizen. One of the most degrading descriptions that can be levelled is to call a woman a crow, meaning a woman of doubtful virtue and easy morals. Nothing short of a public apology will satisfy the residents of Blackall and  Mrs Bonner  in regard to the statements and the nomenclature that the Premier has applied to her. 
As I said earlier, I should have liked to become deeply involved in this debate on the Commonwealth Grants Commission, because Queensland is the only claimant State and was the last to become such. Because of my experiences on, and interest in, the Public Accounts Committee when I was its Chairman, I took a deep interest in the work of that Commission. Time does not permit my discussing it further, but doubtless the Senate will afford other opportunities for us to express our views. 
I would merely say in conclusion that I am terribly disappointed in the Premier of Queensland. He has not brought to that high office the prestige and credit that one would expect a Premier to exercise. In referring to the electorates he has said that if people do not vote for his candidates and his Party they will get no help at all. That, in itself, is bad enough. In the political arena, where there is no place for shrinking violets, we can aU stand up and defend ourselves, express ourselves and put forward our points of view. Also, there is machinery to provide redress where necessary. But when a Premier vents his spleen upon a defenceless woman of the character and reputation of this former Miss Australia we are indeed getting to the bottom of the barrel in politics in that State. There is an old saying that those whom the gods would destroy they first make mad. The recent actions and utterances of the Premier of Queensland have certainly put him in that category. 
asked the Acting AttorneyGeneral, upon notice, on 24 August 1 977: 
I ) What was the cost of cases referred by the Legal Aid Office to the private legal profession at Rockhampton, 
Cairns, Southport, and Townsville, respectively, for the year ending 30 June 1977. 
What were the amounts paid to each private legal practitioner in the respective centres for the same period. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Administrative Services. On 6 September last, replying to a question I asked regarding the future of the Bulimba hostel and its 300 inmates who are low income earners and who could become homeless, the Minister said that he was most concerned for the welfare of the inmates and that he would have discussions with his colleagues about what assistance could be provided. I now ask the right honourable senator: Has he anything further to add in view of the fact that I am informed that since then the present leaseholders of the property have put forward several proposals for the hostel's redevelopment? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 September 1977: 
1 ) How many persons were registered as unemployed in the Employment Office areas of (a) Rockhampton; (b) Gladstone; (c) Bundaberg; (d) Maryborough; (e) Gympie; and (f) Nambour at the end of August 1975, August 1976 and August 1977. 
What percentage of the persons was (a) males; and ( b) females: (i) under 2 1 years of age and (ii) 2 1 years of age and over. 
What were the principal work categories of the persons registered as unemployed. 
fe asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and 
Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 September 1977: 
1 ) How many persons were registered as unemployed in the Employment Office areas of (a) Charleville; (b) Longreach; (c) Mermaid Beach; (d) Southport; (e) Toowoomba; and (f) Warwick at the end of August 1975, August 1976 and August 1977. 
What percentage of the persons was (a) males; and (b) females: (i) under 2 1 years of age and (ii) 2 1 years of age and over. 
What were the principal work categories of the persons registered as unemployed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 12 October 1977: 
1 ) How many persons were registered as unemployed in the Employment Office areas of (a) Rockhampton; (b) Gladstone; (c) Bundaberg; (d) Maryborough; (e) Gympie; and (f) Nambour at the end of September 1975, September 1976 and September 1977. 
What percentage of the persons was (a) males; and (b) females: (i) under 2 1 years of age and (ii) 2 1 years of age and over. 
What were the principal work categories of the persons registered as unemployed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 12 October 1977: 
1 ) How many persons were registered as unemployed in the Employment Office areas of (a) Charleville; (b) Longreach; (c) Mermaid Beach; (d) Southport; (e) Toowoomba; and (f) Warwick at the end of September 1975, September 1976 and September 1977. 
What percentage of the persons was (a) males; and (b) females: (i) under 2 1 years of age and (ii) 2 1 years of age and over. 
What were the principal work categories of the persons registered as unemployed. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. Has the Government's formula for bringing the prices for Australian crude oil to the level of import parity prices resulted in the Esso-BHP organisation receiving for its crude oil $3.40 a barrel instead of $3.20 a barrel, as is indicated in the Budget Papers? Does that constitute a financial windfall to EssoBHP of some $ 14.8m in excess of the $109m increase in profit it would make over and above the normal operating profit as a result of the phasing in of the import parity prices policy? If so, is that appropriate at a time when motorists are paying higher prices for petrol, small business is struggling to survive and the worker is continually being asked to tighten his belt? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairsmindful of the fact that the Attorney-General formerly held that portfolio- whether he is aware that there is grave concern among exservicemen's organisations which claim that the Government proposes to withdraw the entitlement paid to ex-servicemen suffering from tuberculosis, and further, that the Government proposes, in the case of burnt out diggers' pensions, to increase the qualifying age from 60 to 65 years? Will the Minister inform the Senate whether these claims are true? Will he give an undertaking to ex-servicemen's organisations that he will consult them before introducing amending legislation? 
I congratulate  Senator Haines  on her maiden speech. One of the rewarding things about this place is that honourable senators on both sides of the chamber are always helpful to new senators. Unfortunately for  Senator Haines,  unlike other honourable senators who belong to major political parties, she will not be able to use her undoubted talents and persuasions in the party room to advance the causes for which she showed a special interest in her maiden speech. After all, it is in the party room that honourable senators can bring about reforms by persuading their colleagues. I feel, as I have always felt since becoming a member of this place, that honourable senators have a better chance in the party room of achieving something than they have in the Senate chamber, where they are bound by party disciplines. 
It all depends upon how one seeks independence. If, for some expediency, one denounces the principles in which one has been brought up to believe and in which one still believes, I do not think that it is a very good way to advance one 's persuasions. 
In addressing myself to the business before the chamber I point out that under ordinary circumstances I would religiously refuse to take part in the debate on the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply because I have always believed that it has proved a great waste of time and has seldom had any enlightening influence upon the affairs of the country or the state of the Parliament because the words of the GovernorGeneral 's Speech are put into the mouth of  His Excellency  by the Government. The Speech from the throne is prepared by the Government and is read to the gathering by the Queen 's representative. However, I have been prompted to rise in my place on this occasion to reply to some of the claims that were made earlier in the debate by  Senator Baume. 

 Senator Baume used his time in this debate to make a blistering attack on  Mr Milan  Brych, who claims to have successfully treated cancer patients. I have no brief whatsoever for  Mr Brych  and I have the highest respect and admiration for the medical profession, but for the life of me I cannot accept what  Senator Baume  would have us believe the other evening, that is, that the medical profession is composed of a band of lilywhites. History has destroyed that claim, as it is presently being destroyed by the activities of a minority group of doctors- I repeat, a minority group of doctors- who are defrauding Medibank. I should have thought that  Senator Baume  in particular, being mindful of his influence in the medical profession and being a highly esteemed member of the medical profession, would have been concerning himself with the actions of a minority group of doctors who are blatantly breaching the accepted principles of the doctor-patient relationship and whose main purpose in life seems to be to amass as much money as they possibly can at the expense of the community and the Government. 
I do not accept the implication in  Senator Baume  's speech that any person not within the medical profession who makes a suggestion or advances a theory about medicine is a fraud or a charlatan. Over the years many people have been denounced and persecuted, yet now their theories are acknowledged as an advance for mankind. Louis Pasteur was denounced and persecuted but his theories not only have been proven correct but also represent the greatest advance to mankind. The noted bone manipulator,  Sir Herbert  Barker, was knighted by King George when he cured the King after all medical advice failed to do so. There is the example of Sister Kenny, a member of the nursing profession in Queensland who successfully treated infantile paralysis. She was denounced and persecuted. If a gentleman by the name of  Mr Charles  Chuter, who was then the UnderSecretary of the Department of Health and Home Affairs, had not championed her cause the knowledge of Sister Kenny may have been lost to mankind. 
Many books have been written by her and about her. They include  My Battle and Victory, They Shall Walk  and /  Knew Sister Kenny  by Herbert J. Devine. Sister Kenny was invited to America to explain her theories. She was immediately an immense success- so much so that Hollywood made a film about her life. Sister Kenny was portrayed in it by Rosalind Russell. A royal commission into Sister Kenny's methods of treating infantile paralysis was appointed in Queensland in 1 937. 1 believe that it is fitting that a reference in the latest edition of  The Australian Encyclopaedia  records that many of her methods are acknowledged and in use today even within the medical profession. 
As I said earlier, I hold no brief whatsoever for  Mr Brych.  I have admiration for the medical profession, but I must again remind  Senator Baume  that the history of progress in medicine over the years has brought forward many cures that have come from people without medical degrees. 
These cures have come through research and the laboratories. I do not think that can be disputed. As a final word on this point, let me say that I am not in the least interested in what the Premier of Queensland, Joh Bjelke-Petersen, wants to do with  Mr Brych.  I could not care less about it. But 1 cannot accept 

 Senator Baume 's assertion that the medical profession is composed of a band of lily-whites. I sincerely hope that he will concern himself with the minority group of doctors who are interested mostly in chasing a dollar and defrauding Medibank. If he will do that, he will be doing a service to the Parliament and the nation. Perhaps Professor Lou Opit, the head of the Social Medicine Department at Monash University, hit the nail on the head when he claimed that medical fees give doctors an overwhelming incitement to cheat. He claimed that the Federal Department of Health offers doctors separate payments for more than 8,000 items and that it encourages doctors to treat everything they can and prevent nothing. That is not my opinion; that is the opinion advanced by Professor Opit. 
I turn to a criticism of the Government which was made by Professor John Cox of the School of Travel Industry Management at the University of Hawaii. He said: 
One day the Federal Government will wake up and understand that three-eights of Australia's balance of payment deficit is caused by the outflow of tourist money. 
What Professor Cox was saying was that the Government has never really supported the Australian tourist industry. What is more it has never understood the industry. The way things are it is easier and more exciting for Australians to go to places like Fiji and Singapore than it is for them to see their own country. 
That is the point I am making. The Federal Government should look at the high cost of fares, particularly air fares within Australia. It should be looking at the package tours for overseas visitors to allow them to see more than Sydney, Canberra and Melbourne. This should be encouraged by the Government if it has a genuine interest in the tourist industry. The industry should not be treated as it is being treated. At Question Time yesterday my colleague,  Senator Bishop,  asked a very pertinent question of the Government regarding tourism. The question is worth recording again.  Senator Bishop  said: 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce relates to the tenth annual report of the Australian Tourist Commission which he tabled on Wednesday last. In the opening remarks the  Chairman  of the Commission included the contents of a letter directed to the Minister on 1 1 October last year in which the  Chairman  claimed that the Commission 's resources were the lowest for any of the years of its operations and the present budgetary position meant that the Commission could not carry out its task, particularly at overseas posts. It also referred to the fact that despite the attempt to maintain staff ceilings at the government objective the Commission was finding great difficulty in running its business. Is the Minister able to state what consideration has been given to that representation of 1 1 October to the Government? Have those matters referred to been attended to and have they been corrected? 
I return to what Professor Cox had to say regarding our export earnings. He said: 
Surely the export earnings from tourism are urgently desirable - 
One would think that they would be-  particularly when one recalls that the Government has already borrowed 2 billion dollars in the past 12 months to support the dollar and reduce the deficit in the balance of payments. 
The reply given to  Senator Bishop  must surely be a declaration of Government poverty in policy on tourism. It clearly indicates the poverty of its resources in defending its position. Last week I addressed a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  concerning the prices for crude oil which will be payable to the Esso-BHP consortium. I asked: 
Has the Government's formula for bringing the prices for Australian crude oil to the level of import parity prices resulted in the Esso-BHP organisation receiving for its crude oil $3.40 a barrel instead of $3.20 a barrel, as is indicated in the Budget Papers? Does that constitute a financial windfall to Esso-BHP of some $ 14.8m in excess of the $ 109m increase in profit it would make over and above the normal operating profit as a result of the phasing in of the import parity prices policy? If so, is that appropriate at a time when motorists are paying higher prices for petrol, small business is struggling to survive and the worker is continually being asked to tighten his belt? 
If one was not astounded at the financial windfall of $ 14.8m given by the Government to the multinational organisation Esso-BHP on top of a $109m increase in profit, and if that was not a shocking indictment of the Government's double standards on wages and improving the working conditions of the working class, to add insult to injury we now see disclosed that this year nearly 90 per cent of the record profit of the Utah Development Co. of $ 158.3m was distributed as dividends. Ninety per cent of that was sent out of Australia. I freely admit that Utah pays corporate tax, withholding tax, royalties, transport charges and other levies imposed by the Government. It pays wages too. But as a return on funds employed, Utah's net profit after tax and all other charges certainly is breathtaking. The Fraser Government has generously fattened Utah's profits by its progressive elimination of the coal export duty. The phasing out of the levy contributed close to $25m of Utah's profits this year, or about 20 per cent of the $126m Utah sent to its United States parent, Utah International Inc. 
What I am upset about is that this was done at the expense of financial support which could have been given to Australian manufacturers, especially for the development of new export products and markets. If the Government is not concerned, we on the Opposition side of the chamber are gravely concerned. Honourable senators should not forget that this was paid for by slashing back on health, welfare, education, Aboriginal programs and urban improvement projects in the Budget. With this Government the rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer. In the light of the performance of this Government, the amendment to the motion which is before the Senate, which has been so eloquently proposed by my leader,  Senator Wriedt,  should receive the enthusiastic support of this Senate. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and relates to the funding of projects under the Homeless Persons Assistance Act. The Minister will know of a submission to the Government from the Queensland Homeless Persons Advisory Committee seeking funding for a number of homeless persons projects for Aborigines. Will the Minister acknowledge that a small injection of funds in this area would benefit the program greatly and would also provide employment? Will she admit that the uncertainty brought about by her Government's indecision on continued funding and its refusal to enter into a three-year commitment in this area is endangering the value of the program? Will she explain why there has been a delay in approving the funding sought by the Committee? 
On behalf of  Senator Gietzelt,  I present the following petition from 1 8 citizens of Australia: 
To Honourable the  President  and Members or the Senate and the Honourable  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: That it is necessary for the Commonwealth Government to renew for a further term of at least 3 years the States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act 1974-77, renewed for one year expiring on the 30 June 1978. 
The demand for dwellings has not slackened as the waiting list (all States) of 12,060 single and 4,120 couples as at the 30 June 1977, showeth. 
Your petitioners respectfully draw the attention of the Commonwealth Government to the Report of the Committee of Inquiry into Aged Persons' Housing 1975 under the Chairmanship of the Rev. K. Seaman (now Governor of South Australia) which recommended additional funds to State housing authorities to meet the demand for low-rental accommodation in the proportion of $4 for $ 1 with the proviso that the States do not reduce their existing expenditure and 
That the Act include married pensioners eligible for supplementary assistance and migrants as specified by the Seaman Report and that particular consideration be paid to the special needs and requirements of the prospective tenants in the location and design of such dwellings. 
Furthermore, your petitioners desire to draw the Government's attention to the hardship of many pensioner home owners caused by the high cost of maintenance. 
The Social Security Annual Report 1976-77 shows that 24.6 per cent, or 283,000 home owning pensioners, have a weekly income in excess of the pension of less than $6 per week. 
Your petitioners strongly urge the Commonwealth Government to establish a fund whereby loans can be made to means tested pensioners for the purpose of effecting necessary maintenance to their homes. Such a loan to be at minimal interest rates sufficient to cover administrative costs and to be repaid by the estate upon the death of a single pensioner before probate or upon the death of the surviving spouse in the case of married pensioners or where two pensioners jointly own the dwelling. 
Administration to be carried out by local government bodies. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether she is aware that recently it was announced in Queensland that Panadol could also be sold in shops and supermarkets, which would indicate that the use of stronger analgesics is increasing, as is their availability? In view of this, has the Government any intention of acting upon the request of the National Health and Medical Research Council that the sale of many minor analgesic preparations be restricted? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. On 27 January 1978 the Attorney-General announced the appointment to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal of  Mr P.  C. Winter, a former General Manager of the City Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd;  Mr W.  B. Borthwick, a former Assistant General Manager of the T &amp; G Mutual Life Society Ltd; and  Mr L.  G. Oxby, a former  Deputy  General Manager of the AMP Society. I do not want to put words into the Attorney-General's mouth but I ask: When he was announcing the appointments did the thought strike him that the public might wonder at the abundance of former insurance managers and try to reason why? 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer whether I heard him correctly to say, when he replied to a question from  Senator Walsh  on 8 March about Australia's balance of payments:  1 am also happy  io  say that in the past quarter there has been some movement towards a rectification of the balance of trade position. 
If so, I would be interested in the Minister's explanation of the fact that Australia's overseas reserves fell by $68m in the week to last Wednesday and that this is the second largest decline that Australia has had in its reserves. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health and is asked on behalf of  Senator Robertson,  who is away from the Senate on parliamentary business. Parents of children attending schools in the Darwin area have complained that dental clinics in the schools are not operating. The Department of Health has advised the parents that the clinics cannot be opened because of shortage of funds. Would the Minister agree that this is an untenable situation, particularly as the public dental clinics are desperately short of staff? Since the responsibility for finance for the employment of school dental staff is a Federal responsibility, will the Minister indicate what action will be taken to enable the clinics to open and so provide this most necessary service? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development the following question, without notice, on 22 February 1978: 
Has the Government's formula for bringing the prices for Australian crude oil to the level of import parity prices resulted in the Esso-BHP organisation receiving for its crude oil $3.40 a barrel instead of $3.20 a barrel, as is indicated in the Budget Papers? Does that constitute a financial windfall to Esso-BHP of some $14.8m in excess of the $109m increase in profit it would make over and above the normal operating profit as a result of the phasing in of the import parity prices policy? If so, is that appropriate at a time when motorists are paying higher prices for petrol, small business is struggling to survive and the worker is continually being asked to tighten his belt? 
-Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that because of constitutional difficulties Queensland could become a State without a properly elected government? What action will he take to see that the Commonwealth Government ensures that the right and privileges of Queenslanders as Australian citizens are protected? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware of the heavy costs faced by people living in isolated areas in obtaining specialist medical treatment and of the heavy burden travel and accommodation costs place upon patients who have to travel long distances for health care, not to mention the social costs due to disruption of family life? If so, is the Minister in a position to tell the Senate when her colleague the Minister for Health intends to honour his promise made on S December 1977 to implement a scheme by which such people would receive financial assistance? 
-My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications is asked in my capacity as a Queensland senator interested in country people, although I must admit, as  President  of the Queensland Rugby League, that that organisation has an interest in my question also. Is the Minister aware that many country areas in Queensland are one station areas as far as television is concerned and that in these areas there is widespread concern at the drastic cuts in the sporting programs of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, particularly regarding rugby league replays. Queensland country people believe they are now in a sporting desert and that they have been discriminated against as there do not appear to be similar reductions in sporting programs elsewhere. Will the Minister take the matter up with his colleague, the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, to see whether some improvement can be brought about? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. I say, by way of preface, that I wish I did not have to ask this question because it is unbelievable that what I have to say should even be contemplated. In view of statements in the weekend Press, does the Government intend to re-impose the means test on the incomes of pensioners aged 70 years and over? If so, will this be done to help pay for the big handouts to the mining companies, the multinational and foreign investors and other large financial supporters of the Fraser Government? 
My question is addressed to the Minister acting for the Minister for Administrative Services. By way of preface, I indicate that I am prompted to ask the question by my having received a copy of the prestigious annual report of the Australian Ballet Foundation. As the Government is engaged in an austerity compaign and is asking everybody to tighten his belt, will the Minister give consideration to requesting the many hundreds of statutory corporations to economise by presenting more austere publications? 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill but will be moving five amendments at the Committee stage. I understand that honourable senators have already received copies of the amendments. The first amendment relates to clause 5, in which the functions set out for the Australian Science and Technology Council are the functions outlined by the Interim Australian Science and Technology Council. The Opposition believes that one further and important function should be added; that is, consideration of the impact of aspects of science and technology on society. Our amendment to clause 6, which is self-explanatory, is designed to prevent a Minister receiving a report and sitting on it, as the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  did with the last ASTEC report. 
The amendment to clause 8 is designed to give the Council more freedom in performing its functions so that it will not be a total tool of the Minister. Our proposed amendment to clause 10 is also self-explanatory. It deals with the manner in which the Council is constituted and with the qualifications of the members. We propose an increase in the number of scientists on the Council from the one scientist provided for in the Bill. Our amendment to clause 1 1 proposes to ensure a more rapid rotation of members of the Council, except in exceptional circumstances. Finally, with regard to clause 26 which refers to secrecy, the Opposition makes the comment that the clause is a little inflexible in relation to the scientist's capacity to discuss with his colleagues. However, we do not propose an amendment to that clause. 
The Opposition has an amendment to clause 10. 1 move: 
Leave out sub-clause ( 1 ), insert the following sub-clause: 
1 ) The Council shall consist of a Chairman, a Deputy Chairman and not less than 7, not more than 15, ordinary members of whom at least 2 shall be persons professionally qualified as social scientists, 3 shall be scientists currently involved in research and 2 shall be members of the Australian Parliament appointed respectively by the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition.'. 
We believe that our proposed amendment to clause 10 is self-explanatory. It makes provision for additional professionally qualified members on the Council. 
-I move: 
Leave out the clause, insert the following clause: 
The functions of the Council are to investigate, and to furnish information and advice to the Commonwealth Government in respect of, matters relating to science and technology, including the following matters: 
the advancement of scientific knowledge; 
the implications for the community, for the environment, for industry and for Government policy of developments in science and technology: 
utilizing science and technology in the development of national objectives; 
priorities for scientific and technological research and development, and on policies to give best effect to these priorities; 
the organization of and institutional arrangements for the conduct of scientific and technological activities; ( 0 manpower policies for science and technology: 
the fostering of scientific and technological innovation in industry; 
utilizing science and technology in the achievement of national objectives. '. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (1), leave out 'but is eligible for reappointment '. 
Leave out sub-clauses (2) to (6), and sub-clause (8). 
I shall not delay the Senate. The amendments are self-explanatory and designed to ensure a more rapid rotation of members of the Council. We feel that, except in exceptional circumstances, a member of the Council could be reappointed. 
I move: 
Leave out sub-clause ( 1 ), insert the following sub-clause: 
I ) The Council shall perform its functions and exercise its powers as it sees fit and shall act upon any directions given to it by the Minister in writing.'. 
I have moved this amendment quite seriously because it is designed to give the Council some freedom in performing its functions rather than make it a total tool of the Minister. 
I move: 
At end of clause, add the following new sub-clauses: 
Where the Minister exercises his discretion in favour of causing the report to be laid before the Parliament with deletions he shall disclose to Parliament the grounds upon which such deletions were made. 
Where the Minister exercises his discretion in favour of causing the report not to be laid before the Parliament he shall within 15 sitting days after receiving the report disclose to Parliament that he has received the report and the grounds upon which he has exercised such discretion. '. 
Paragraph (b) of sub-clause (3) of clause 6 deals with confidentiality of information. We accept that that provision will lead quite properly to the deletion of confidential information before a report is presented to the Houses of Parliament. However, paragraph (a) of sub-clause (3) of clause 6 presents a more questionable set of circumstances in relation to delay in the laying of the ASTEC report before the Parliament. For instance, it refers to the disclosure of information which would, in the opinion of the Minister, be contrary to the public interest by reason that it would prejudice security, defence or international relations of the Commonwealth or relations between the Commonwealth and any State. These conditions, in the view of the Opposition, require more scientific definition and overview. Material affecting security or defence intelligence are obvious matters in which such delays and protections by the Minister might occur. 
The prejudicing of Commonwealth-State relations and international relations could, we feel, require clarification by the Minister; or some controlling mechanism should be introduced to ensure the proper openness of ASTEC reports and their availability. The ASTEC report invited by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on energy research and development in Australia is a case in point. The report was presented in October 1977. It was tabled in the Parliament on 4 April 1978. Accordingly a period of six months elapsed between its completion and presentation to the Parliament. In that period it was not available to the Opposition, to interested heads of statutory authorities- for example, the  Chairman  of the Australian Atomic Energy Commissionor to members of the National Energy Advisory Committee. The National Energy Advisory Committee's report to the then Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  on a national energy policy was released on 15 December 1 977. It is not clear from a reading of the ASTEC report on energy research and development why the report should have been withheld. The withholding did not assist the report of the National Energy Advisory Committee. I ask the Minister what sort of matter concerning the relations between the Commonwealth and the States or relations between the Commonwealth and other nations is deemed to need protection? 
As was stated by the Prime Minister, the Australian Science and Technology Council was set up for the purpose of providing independent advice of the highest calibre and for the purpose of opening up debate on science and technology policy. He also said that the disclosure of its information should be strictly controlled. Disclosure should not occur for political purposes. The mechanism we suggest to keep the reporting system as open as possible would require that, as the Bill suggests, the Minister report to the Parliament, within 15 sitting days after the report is received by the Minister, on the following matters: Firstly, the existence of the ASTEC report; secondly, the reason for not making it available; and, thirdly, the date when the report will become available. Those are the reasons why we are supporting these amendments. 
I do not have the benefit of legal training but I can see from clause 6 sub-clause (1) that what the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  says is true. The sub-clause states: 
. and may furnish to the Minister such other reports on matters relating to its functions as it thinks fit. 
That is quite right; but clause 8 sub-clause ( 1 ) is very specific. It states: 
The Council shall perform its functions and exercise its powers in accordance with such directions as are given to it by the Minister in writing. 
The Minister's explanation was given too quickly for me and I was not able to absorb it. But I am not completely satisfied that his explanation is sufficient. Clause 8(1) specifically states: 
. in accordance with such directions as are given to it by the Minister in writing. 
Yes. The Opposition proposes that sub-clause ( 1 ) be deleted and that the following sub-clause be substituted: 
The Council shall perform its functions and exercise its powers as it sees fit and shall act upon any directions given to it by the Minister in writing. 
I do not want to be difficult. However, despite the Minister's explanation that provision is made in clause 6 ( 1 ) for what we propose, I would like to hear argument that was a little more convincing to show that the Opposition's amendment does not have any effect that is undesirable. 
I do not wish to prolong the debate, but surely  Mr Odgers  will have more important things to write about in his book  Australian Senate Practice  than that proposed by the Minister for Administrative Services. I speak subject to correction, but the Minister made great play of the fact that governments appoint members to boards. He did not like the idea of the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition appointing representatives to the Council. He said also that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright would be horrified if this were to happen. I have always been under the impression that the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition appoint members to the Australian National University, and that those appointments are ratified by the Parliament. I think the intent here is that the nominations by the Prime Minister or the Leader of the Opposition also would be ratified by Parliament. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 1 1 . 
1 ) Subject to this Part, a member holds office for such period not exceeding- la) in the case of the  Chairman  or the  Deputy Chairman  5 years: or (b)in the case of any other member- 3 years. as is specified in the instrument of his appointment, but is eligible forre-appointment. 
A person shall not hold office as the  Chairman  or the  Deputy Chairman  for a continuous period exceeding 10 years. 
3 ) A person who has held office as the  Chairman  or the  Deputy Chairman  for a continuous period of 10 years is not eligible for re-appointment as the  Chairman  or the  Deputy Chairman,  as the case may be, for a term of office commencing within 12 months after the expiration of that period. 
Subject to sub-section (6), a person shall not hold office as a part-time member for a continuous period exceeding 6 years. 
Subject to sub-section (6) a person who has held office as a part-time member for a continuous period of 6 years is not eligible for re-appointment as a part-time member for a period of office commencing within 12 months after the expiration of that period. 
Where- 
a aperson has held office as a part-time member for a continuous period of 6 years or. by virtue of a previous application or previous applications of this sub-section, a continuous period exceeding 6 years; and 
the Minister certifies in writing that, in his opinion, by reason of exceptional circumstances specified in the certificate, it is desirable for the person to continue in office, the person may be re-appointed as a part-time member for a period of office commencing on the expiration of the period referred to in paragraph (a). 
A person who has attained the age of 65 years shall not be appointed or re-appointed as a full-time Chairman or Deputy Chairman and a person shall not be appointed or reappointed as a full-time Chairman or Deputy Chairman for a period that extends beyond the date on which he will attain the age of 65 years. 
In this section, 'part-time member' does not include the  Chairman  or the  Deputy Chairman. 
My question is directed to  Senator Carrick  in his capacity as Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has his attention been drawn to an article by Alan Reid in this week's  Bulletin  magazine in which  Senator Withers  is reported to have informed colleagues that the Prime Minister had suggested to him that he wanted  Senator Carrick  to attend the special meeting of Ministers held in Sydney to discuss  Senator Withers'  fate? Is he aware that  Senator Withers  is quoted as replying to the Prime Minister: 'Now wait a minute. I've got nothing against John. But he's not at arm's length. He's an interested party. He stands to benefit- to become Leader.' Did the present Leader of the Government attend that meeting in Sydney with the expressed purpose of dislodging  Senator Withers  from the leadership? Why was it that he attended the meeting and not  Senator Guilfoyle, Mr Killen  and  Mr Peacock? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, without notice, on 25 May 1978: 
Is the Minister aware that many country areas in Queensland are one station areas as far as television is concerned and that in these areas there is widespread concern at the drastic cuts in the sporting programs of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, particularly regarding rugby league replays. Queensland country people believe they are now in a sporting desert and that they have been discriminated against as there do not appear to be similar reductions in sporting programs elsewhere. Will the Minister take the matter up with his colleague, the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, to see whether some improvement can be brought about? 

 - Mr President, before I address my remarks to the subject that is before the Senate this evening, permit me to congratulate  Senator Mason  on his maiden speech and his innovative idea of making his maiden speech by way of speaking to a notice of motion and not as a contribution to a general debate in the Senate chamber. I hope that in the future, when he weighs the pros and cons of debate that will take place in this chamber, his imagination will come down on the side of good common sense. 
I would also like to reply to a point made by  Senator Walters.  I know that when she referred to the Re-establishment and Employment Act of 1945 as an old model car, she made the observation in good faith. She made that remark facetiously, but I think that on reflection- I am sure her illustrious father would agree with me- she would agree that 1945 was a very difficult time, being the end of World War II. Servicemen had to be rehabilitated and the wonderful women of this country who kept the wheels of industry moving and the home fires burning had to be gradually withdrawn from industry and replaced by the men who were returning from the Services. I think people of all political persuasions would be unanimous in saying that the problems faced by the CurtinChifley regimes in the rehabilitation of the nation were almost as serious as the problems with which we are confronted today. I think  Senator Walters  made her criticism lightheartedly. I know that on reflection she would be appreciative of the efforts made by Dedman, Chifley and Curtin at that time. 
I address myself now to the serious matter before the Chair which the Senate is debating and that is the Commonwealth Employment Service Bill 1978 and an associated Bill which amends the Re-establishment and Employment Act. My colleague,  Senator Ryan,  who led in this debate for the Australian Labor Party, indicated that we would be supporting the measure. Even though we are not wholeheartedly in support of what the Bill envisages it is nevertheless a step forward in an attempt to upgrade the Commonwealth Employment Service. There are many shortcomings in this Bill which must be obvious to anyone who reads it. Before I deal with those shortcomings let me take honourable senators' minds back to 1945, to the situation referred to earlier by  Senator Walters.  At the conclusion of World War II the Re-establishment and Employment Act 1945 was being introduced into the Parliament by the then Labor Party Minister for Postwar Reconstruction, the Honourable John Dedman. I think his words are worth recalling. When he introduced the Bill he stated: 
First among the Government's objectives is the maintenance of a high and stable level of employment. To achieve the objective measures must be devised to ensure that at any dme more potential jobs exist than the number of people seeking them and that, as far as possible, employment must be of the right kind and in the right place. 
That was the philosophy of the Labor Party 33 years ago and I sincerely commend it to honourable senators on the Government side. That should be the philosophy and policy of the Government at this time. Today unemployment is running at the rate of 410,000. I put it to honourable senators on the Government side that that is completely unacceptable in any civilised society. I am being honest when I say that the position is not helped- if anything it is worsened- by the deflationary economic policies that the Government is pursuing today. I charge the Government with this worsening unemployment position as a result of its utter failure to implement adequate retraining policies and adequate manpower policies and its utter failure to implement adequate immigration policies. That is the crux of the whole situation today. 
When considering our experience over the last 30 years, since the original Bill was introduced in 1945, one would have thought that we would have learnt something and that we would have been able to come up with more imaginative ideas and some more proposals than those contained on the Commonwealth Employment Service Bill 1978 which we are debating this evening. We have not learnt anything in the 30 years that have transpired since the original Bill was introduced. One would have thought that we would have more ideas and that the Government would have come up with a proposition under which it would devote a great deal more of this country's resources to the Commonwealth Employment Service. As I said previously, when I compare the government activity that took place in 1 945 and the ideas that were advanced then with what is contained in this Bill in 1 978, 1 regret to have to make this critical observation: The Bill is a sham. It has been an exercise in window dressing. 
I am greatly concerned, and I have no doubt that every honourable senator in this chamber is concerned, about the future prospects for employment in this country. I think the situation is very grim. It is one in which we should not play politics. That is why I was very happy this afternoon to hear  Senator Ryan  say that the Opposition was prepared to help in any way whatsoever, and to speak with the Government to bring about some cure for the unemployment problem which we are experiencing today. Let us have a look at the unemployment situation. The number of persons employed in manufacturing industry has declined from 1.3 million in 1971 to 1,145,000 at the end of 1977. This represents an unemployed rate of 149,000 people. That is not a very satisfying situation. Civilians employed by private enterprise fell in number from 3.32 million to 3.24 million in the same period. This represents some hundreds of thousands of people. 
I have here an interesting statistic. During the Fraser Government's administration the number of civilians employed by the Government rose from 1.34 million to 1.5 million. This must be of as much interest to Government senators as it is to honourable senators on this side. It simply means that, despite the claims made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  about the transfer of resources to the private sector, that simply has not occurred. It is not the case. This is what he has told the country is happening because he thinks he is appeasing big business in its attitude to the Labor Party. But the only increase in employment in that area has happened in the civilian area of the public sector. It is the areas of the manufacturing industry, the construction industry, the textile industry, the footwear industry and the clothing industry which show the real decline in the labour force. This is an alarming state of affairs. I suppose, on the good side, that only in the areas of retail trade, community services, the entertainment area and the tertiary industry area has there been any increase or real expansion in employment. 
Employment in the mining sector has risen from 75,500 people to 79,000 people in the last six years but that represents only 1.6 per cent of the total employment in this country. Just as an aside I say to honourable senators that whilst it represents only 1.6 per cent of the total employment of this country it earns $3 billion of our export earnings. That is a very pertinent observation. The question of unemployment is not an easy problem to solve, whether the Labor Party can solve it or whether its competitors, in government, can solve it. A multiplicity of reasons exists for the present level of unemployment. It would be difficult to come up with the solution to it and, for the moment, I will leave it stand at that. 
I should like to address myself to some of the more pertinent matters that are contained in the legislation we are debating. I wish to address myself to the recommendations of the Norgard inquiry, an inquiry that was set up and established by the Government in an endeavour to advise it on the matters that we are debating this evening. After reading the Norgard report and studiously looking at the legislation we are debating this evening, I regret to say that I think the observation I am about to make is an honest observation. It would appear, to all intents and purposes, that the Government has completely disregarded or ignored the findings of the Norgard inquiry. I refer Government senators opposite to the Norgard report in which it was stated: 
However, what the Commonwealth Employment Service needs more than any of the improvements suggested above is the political will and the support of the Government to upgrade its activities so it can function as a modern manpower service. 
I think that is extremely important. Obviously from the legislation that is before us this evening, the warning given by the Norgard inquiry has not been taken up by the Government. It is one thing to say, as the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Durack)  said in his second reading speech, that the purpose of the Bill is to provide a legislative program for the Commonwealth Employment Service which is appropriate for its development as a modern manpower service, but the point surely must be that the Government has no manpower policy whatsoever. This new authority, as  Senator Walters  told us, is going to redeem us and lead us to the promised land but it has no authority and has no policy that it can carry out on behalf of the Government. I respectfully suggest to Government senators that the Government does not need any new authority to carry out programs which it has in operation at the present time in respect of manpower policies. 
Surely the Minister and the Government must realise that in relation to the total work force problem the present programs are not even scratching the surface. They have not even made a ripple; they have not even caused a noise. The manpower program as such needs direction from the very top. It is calling and screaming out for leadership. That leadership is not forthcoming. The Government seems to have ignored completely the recommendations of its own inquirythe Norgard inquiry which it established. Its response to the report is the creation of a semi-independent quasi statutory authority with obscure lines of communication, with obscure lines of information and with obscure lines of responsibility. The Norgard report states that the CES is operating without clear objectives or priorities and that its limited resources are pretty thinly spread across the multitude of tasks that it has to undertake. 
What irritates me is that the Government's response to the strong criticism is a Bill which establishes no real priorities. It merely describes the functions already being performed by the CES and under which it makes no financial commitment whatsoever- I challenge the Minister to refute this- to the provision of additional resources other than the appointment of a national director. That may be desirable and it must be some improvement; nevertheless, it is only a token response to an urgent national problem. At this stage I invite the attention of the Senate to one other aspect of the Bill that concerns me. I refer to clause 6 which states: 
The functions of the Commonwealth Employment Service are- 
to promote and implement approved manpower programs and other measures designed to ensure a high level of employment in the community; 
Whilst I said earlier that there is a multiplicity of reasons for the massive unemployment that exists today, not the least important contributory item is the Government's financial policy. The stark fact that the Minister who is in control of the Bill in this House must face is this: There are some 410,000 people unemployed in this country today and, on the best statistics that are available to us, there are only 19,500 employment vacancies. That is the stark fact that this Government must face today. Even if manpower programs matched each vacancy there would still be 390,000 persons unemployed who could not find a job 
The Government's policy set out in the legislation now before us which directs the Commonwealth Employment Service to implement improved manpower programs without any clear overall objectives will not create jobs. On an arithmetical basis it is just an exercise in futility for the Government to introduce new manpower policies for the Commonwealth Employment Service without giving any clear defined objectives in the Bill. We have a situation in which, as I have said, there are 410,000 people out of work and 19,500 vacancies. I submit that the situation can be remedied only with a change of Government policy. 
Having dealt with the Government's inadequacy in relation to manpower policies, I turn to the very vexed question of the administration of the unemployment benefit scheme. The Norgard Review said in its report that no subject raised more comment than the role of the Commonwealth Employment Service in this aspect of the administration. It further said: 
All areas of experience in this field were of the opinion that the role of the Commonwealth Employment Service in this area should be abandoned. 
That is a very important observation. All the experience that was available to the Norgard Committee came down on the side that the CES should abandon the handling of unemployment benefit schemes. The role of the Commonwealth Employment Service in the administration of the payment of unemployment benefit is a clear contradiction in terms of any agency that was originally established to promote and implement manpower policies in the spirit in which the original Act was introduced in 1945 by the Labor Government under John Dedman. 
Of course, the Parliament is aware of the Government's attitude to the payment of unemployment benefit. We have heard it expressed in answers to questions asked from this side of the House. We have heard it announced publicly through the media of this country. When I say the Parliament is aware of the Government's attitude, I include in that statement the Opposition's awareness of the Government's attitude to the payment of unemployment benefit and all the rules that it has laid down in order to harass those eligible to receive the benefit. That is an honest criticism of the Government's attitude, observed by me, towards people who are out of work. By adopting that attitude, that policy and that philosophy the Government has brought every Commonwealth Employment Service agency into disrepute because the criticism flows to them. 
We know that the Commonwealth Employment Service and its agencies will continue to spend hours, days and even weeks collecting and processing information which, I submit, is of no earthly good to its own objective of placing people in employment. The Commonwealth Employment Service and its agencies are on heresy hunts at the direction of other departments. I charge the Government to deny that this Bill neither allows total withdrawal of the Commonwealth Employment Service from this area nor gives it total responsibility. I level this accusation at the Government which says that it wants to improve the status of the Commonwealth Employment Service. The Government has left the CES in a grey area, in no man 's land. There appears to be no attempt by the Government to heed the advice of its own inquiry- the Norgard Review. At paragraph 2.35 the Report states: 
Briefly, the procedure would be that people wishing to claim unemployment benefit should be required to register with the CES. As a matter of preference, the Review would not wish to have the CES issue, receive or check DSS benefit claim forms, but recognises that the CES ought, as a community service, have the necessary forms available. 
That is a very important point. The Report continues: 
The claim form would be endorsed by the CES to the effect that the person was registered for employment and passed to the DSS. Thereafter the CES would take no part in the benefit procedure except to inform the DSS that the person was no longer registered or to report on unsatisfactory attitudes to employment . . . Should a person appeal against withdrawal of benefit as a result of a report from the CES the Review would hope that the CES would be called upon to speak at the appeal hearing. 
That is the recommendation of the Norgard Review and it has been completely overlooked by the Government. The Government has ignored the advice of the inquiry which it established. Finally, the Act lays down that all claimants for unemployment relief must pass the work test. The fourth section of the so-called work test is the most controversial. It refers to 'not making an effort to obtain employment on his or her own behalf. This controversial test obviously is being incorrectly applied. That is my charge against the Government. Mainly it is the Department of Social Security which makes the inspection and determination through its own investigation officers. I think I am correct in saying that. 
Honourable senators will recall that last October the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  ordered a major survey of recipients of relief. Subsequently there were alarming headlines in the Press that some 30,000 people were briefly removed from benefit entitlement and then readmitted. I think I am correct in making that claim. Logically this must mean that they were incorrectly harassed and inconvenienced. One may well ask: Why did the Department conduct this investigation in the first place and take action then which caused this embarrassment to the unemployed and placed peoples, helpless because of their economic circumstances, at the whim of officers of various departments? I conclude by saying, in accordance with what  Senator Ryan  said earlier, that we support this Bill because we think it goes marginally towards improving the existing Act. We give it some sort of qualified support. I suppose it is better than the previous Act. I agree with  Senator Ryan's  comments that it does not go anywhere near towards meeting the problems of those who are unemployed today, and I have pleasure in seconding her amendment. 
I refer the AttorneyGeneral to the current inquiry by the Industries Assistance Commission into the Australian sugar industry. It was alleged at the public hearing yesterday that CSR Ltd is using its  monoply  power to threaten potential witnesses and discourage them from giving evidence to the inquiry. Such action by CSR would appear to be in contravention of the prohibitions contained in section 46 of the Trade Practices Act concerning monopoly practices and in contravention of section 37 of the Industries Assistance Commission Act and the supporting Crimes Act concerning the subpoenaing of potential witnesses. Will the Attorney-General request the Trade Practices Commission to investigate these blatant standover tactics as a matter of urgency? 
I second the amendment moved by my leader  Senator Wriedt  to the motion for the second reading of the Loan Bill 1978, which is being debated by the Senate. The amendment states: 
At end of motion, add ', but the Senate is of the opinion that the Bill is inadequate because it makes no provision for the under-estimating of the deficit which is likely to follow from the understating of unemployment benefit and health payments, over-estimating of receipts from personal income tax and Customs duty, and other inadequacies in the Budget forecasts. ' 
As  Senator Wriedt  has pointed out, the Bill is a machinery measure required to secure authority to borrow amounts for the financing of defence expenditure, which then needs to be charged to the Loan Fund during 1978-79. In the Bill the Government is seeking authority to charge to the Loan Fund some expenditures which would normally be met from the Consolidated Revenue Fund but for which insufficient funds are available at the moment. The Bill will authorise borrowings for defence purposes so that defence expenditure can be charged to the Loan Fund rather than to the Consolidated Revenue Fund. That is the basis of the Bill and, put simply, that is what this measure seeks to do. It is the normal procedure. By that I mean that it was normal procedure in years gone by because no opposition was ever raised to the measure being adopted by a government until the present Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Mr Lynch,  who was then the shadow Treasurer, supported by honourable senators opposite, used the debate to mislead the public. 
This is what you did. I will refresh the honourable senator's memory by quoting from page 586 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  when the second reading debate on the Loan Bill 1975 was taking place. Again I remind the Senate that this was the first time it had happened in this Parliament since Federation.  Mr Lynch  had this to say: 
The Bill before the House seeks authority to borrow amounts for the financing of defence expenditure during 1 975-76. It arises simply because estimated expenditures this year normally charged to the Consolidated Revenue Fund substantially exceed the estimated receipts of that Fund. In other words this is a device to pay for the prospective deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund. It is a device which explicitly avoids the need for Loan Council agreement in order to fund the Government 's deficit. 
That is what  Mr Lynch  had to say when a Bill similar to the one we are debating- the same measure- was brought in by the Labor Party and was before the Parliament.  Mr Lynch  was supported by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who, at the time when the overseas loans negotiations were being discussed, had this to say in reply to  Mr Whitlam,  as recorded at page 3603 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 9 July 1 975: 
So why did he want to strengthen the external financial position by a borrowing of $4,000m? To deal with current and immediately foreseeable unemployment: The Prime Minister knows that there is an easier way of doing that without getting into hock to Middle East countries. He can do this by deficit financing, or has he not heard that his Government has been practising deficit financing over recent months with the prospect of greater use of that tactic in the forthcoming year? 
Of course another prominent member of the Government today, but who was then in Opposition, also had something to say on this matter. I refer to the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  who, when the Loan Bill was being debated in the Senate, had this to say, as recorded in the Senate  Hansard  of 15 October 1975: 
So we do refer to the fact that the deficit as it was cast by the Government this year will be at a higher figure than was anticipated and that is for the 2 reasons that already have been mentioned. One of the reasons is that the increases in wages and salaries as they relate to government services are an undoubted increase that can be foreshadowed without any disagreement. They are not included in the Budget and I do not question that point, understanding the way in which Treasury regulations require Budgets to be cast in this country. The other matter that is important and that always seems to be overlooked is the collection of revenue by the Australian Government. The fact that at this stage the Treasurer has pointed to lower collections in revenue, added to the fact that we have increases in expenditure, leads inescapably to the conclusion that there will be a much higher deficit in the forthcoming year than has been envisaged. 1 come back to the original question which I posed and which is the most important question of all, that is, how will the Government finance this deficit if the loan money market does not respond, and if all the difficulties which can be envisaged in our economic climate at present develop what will be the action of the Government to deal with these matters? It is for that reason that I hope that when there is some response later today to this Bill more perspective will be given to the consequences of the use of this Loan Bill for defence purposes and the matters that are so important to the management of the Australian economy. 

 - Senator Guilfoyle said that when speaking on the Loan Bill in 1975- and what a prophet she has turned out to be because that is the position that this Government finds itself in today. As  Senator Wriedt  has already pointed out, former  Senator Cotton,  who was the shadow Treasurer in this place at the time, together with his colleagues, many of whom are still in this Senate, expressed concern at the level of the Labor Government's Budget deficit. They asked a series of questions- from memory, I think the number was 30- and delayed the passage of the Loan Bill of 1975 for three months by hankering, inquiring and trying to mislead the people of Australia as to what were the real purposes of the Loan Bill. Let us not forget that the main thrust of the then Opposition's argument at the time was what the state of the Budget deficit was going to be- that the forecasts were inaccurate, therefore instability would reign in the country. The then members of the Opposition said that they were genuinely inquiring into the situation because they felt it was their duty to do so in the interests of the welfare of the nation and of the people. 
Let us look at this Government's projected Budget deficit. Let us wonder whether it will be any more inaccurate than last year's estimate, which was 50 per cent greater than the estimate of the year before. How do we know that this year's estimate is going to be any better? Already it is abundantly clear that the estimates used in arriving at the present deficit raise more questions than the Government can answer. Our examinations show that the deficit this financial year will be substantially greater than the $2, 800m forecast in the Budget.  Senator Messner,  in his speech, challenged Opposition senators to point out to him why we were so sure that the deficit was going to be greater than has been forecast. 
Let us state some of these under-estimates. These are the points upon which we are basing our contentions: First, the under-estimation of outlays of unemployment benefit payments; secondly, the under-estimation of Medibank payments; thirdly, the over-estimation of receipts from the gross pay-as-you-earn taxation payments; fourthly, the over-estimation of receipts from import customs duty; and, fifthly, the effect of changes that have already been made to the Budget, the first of which was announced only two days ago by the Minister for Social Security in this place. The Minister announced a change to the means test on the family allowance. No longer will the pocket moneys of newsboys- the income they earn from selling papers- affect the amount of the family allowance received by their mothers. That has already had an effect on the Budget of some estimated $90m from 1 January 1979 to 30 June 1979. 
If  Senator Messner  or his colleagues on the other side want any further proof, I shall quote from the Niemeyer statement, which is a monthly statement of financial transactions of the Government. The statement gets its name from the last Great Depression in 1929-32 when Otto Niemeyer came out from England to try to correct the finances of this country. The only advice he was able to give the people of Australia was: 'You have to tighten your belts further'. But one outcome of the Niemeyer visit was that the Government had to provide a monthly profit and loss account, if it can be described as that. I quote from the latest Niemeyer statement that has been issued. It shows outlays for the month of July 1 978 as $2, 424m compared with outlays for the same month in 1977 amounting to $2, 125m- an increase on expenditure of 14 per cent. The receipts for July 1978 were $ 1,342m whereas in 1977 they were $ 1,324m. This means that receipts have remained normal but outlays or expenditure for July, the first month of the new fiscal year, have increased. If we look at the deficit for July 1978 we find that it is running at $98 lm whereas in 1977 it was running at $699m. Already in the first month of this fiscal year there has been an increase of 40 per cent in the deficit. It increased 50 per cent last year and yet honourable senators on the Government side say that it will not increase 50 per cent this year. I commend to them the Niemeyer statement for July and when they read it they can come to their own conclusions. 
In case any further proof is needed I shall address myself to the unemployment benefit payment position in the Budget. We on the Opposition side of the Senate believe that these payments will be far greater than the amount projected in the Budget. When the Treasurer,  Mr Howard,  was addressing the National Press Club in Canberra recently he said that he anticipated a monthly average of some 290,000 persons unemployed during the current financial year. This is against the average of 265,000 recipients of unemployment benefit during last year. The point I am trying to make is that day after day  Senator Grimes  forcibly told the Senate of this difference in estimation. Even if we accept the assumption of the Treasurer that 290,000 persons a month will be unemployed for the remainder of this year, there appear to be errors in the Budget estimates of the amount of unemployment benefit payable. 
Last year the Budget allocation for unemployment benefit was some $705m whereas the actual expenditure was way above that figure at some $794m. The Government has assumed an increase in the number of recipients of unemployment benefit of some 10 per cent. The extra 25,000 persons a month estimate is based on an inflation adjustment for those with dependants. As I have said, the Treasurer when addressing the National Press Club estimated that there would be 290,000 persons unemployed on a monthly basis in the next financial year. Yet the recipients of unemployment benefit last year, on a monthly basis, numbered 265,000. Therefore there has to be some underestimating in the expenditure which is provided in the Budget to meet those additional needs. For the current year, based on last year's figures, the Budget should have provided for an allocation of some $870m, based on the Treasurer's figures. That is a conservative estimate. Instead, we find that a figure of only $785m is included in the Budget. One does not need to be an Einstein to understand that this is an estimate of $85m below reasonable expectations. Certainly, it must be accepted that it is $10m below last year's figure. This is another reason why the deficit will be much greater than we are being told. 
Let us look at the changes in the health insurance scheme. The Government estimates that that scheme will cost $62 lm. This is made up of added Budget outlays of some $305m and a reduction of $3 1 6m in receipts because of the cancelling of the health insurance levy. Now the Government estimates that the additional expenditure will be $6 12m. I ask the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  who is in charge of the Bill what account has been taken of the attitude of the doctors. They will have the sole right to determine or define those on low incomes and those socially disadvantaged. That becomes tremendously significant in the Budget estimation. If doctors say that people on low incomes are socially disadvantaged persons the doctors can then bulk-bill and the Government has to pay 75 per cent of the fee. But if a doctor does not do that and if he lets the matter take its course, the Government still has to pay 40 per cent of the fee, or, in the case of more costly procedures, all except $20 of the schedule fee. 
I put the situation to the Minister and ask him to apply his common sense. What will the doctor do? If he can define a person as socially disadvantaged or as being on a low income, if he can bulk-bill and if he can get 75 per cent of the fee, will he do that or will he overlook the situation and accept the person as an ordinary patient, let the patient claim 40 per cent from the government while the doctor has to chase the other 60 per cent? 

 Senator McAULIFFEOf course he will take the 75 per cent. Even if the Government argues that he will not, who knows whether he will. What account has been taken of this matter in the Budget? Who will pay out the 40 per cent provided by the government? In response to this question in the other place the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  said that the established private health funds would. They will not do it for nothing. There will have to be a fee for service. This is not even taken into account in the Budget. Another point is: How can the Government assess the number of people who might take the gamble and say: I will not join any fund. I feel I am in good health. I will take the gamble. I will pay the maximum $20 or receive the 40 per cent handout from the Government. I will not join any fund whatever'. 
I have heard other doctors say that people will be very sensible to do that. It all depends which way one looks at it. There will be people who will take the gamble and say: 'I will not join any fund whatsoever'. There will be greater payouts. People will opt for the maximum payment of $20. All these things have not been taken into account in the Budget by these great scholarly intellectual economists who were telling us in 1975 what we should have been doing. The Government is in a worse position today than we were ever in during that period. So the sad story goes on and on. 
The same grave doubts hang over the way that the estimates of pay-as-you-earn taxation receipts have been calculated. The Government has estimated- I am not going to go into this at length- that average weekly earnings for 1978-79 will rise by 7.5 per cent, whereas other experienced opinions say that it will rise by only 5.5 per cent. It must be obvious that, if the 5.5 per cent figure is correct, there will be a downturn in the revenue yielded by pay-as-you-earn taxation. Then again the Government assumes that Public Service salaries will rise by only 3.85 per cent. In one breath it says that average weekly earnings will rise by 7.5 per cent but then it tells us that Public Service salaries will rise by only 3.85 per cent, which is half of what it feels will be the increase in average weekly earnings. So the sad story of miscalculcation, underestimation in some areas and overestimation in other areas goes on and on. If the increase in Public Service salaries is in step with the Government's forecast of the increase in average weekly earnings- 7.5 per cent- it is out another $ 100m in its forecasts. 
As I said previously, the same story of overestimating receipts continues in the area of customs duties. The same thing applies to customs duties on imports. It is probably right at this time that we should mention the ever worsening balance of payments position and- I do not want to be a prophet of gloom- the inevitable devaluation of the dollar which, unless the balance of payments position rapidly improves, will have to happen. Is not there going to be a disastrous effect on the estimates of receipts from customs duties on imports if a devaluation takes place? While on the subject of the balance of payments, permit me again to quote what the Prime Minister said about putting Australia in hock to overseas interests. This statement was made when Labor was in government. He said: 
So why did he want to strenghten the external financial position by the borrowing of $4,000m? To deal with current and immediately foreseeable unemployment: 
The Prime Minister knows that there is an easier way of doing that without getting into hock with Middle East countries. 
Then he went on to say how it could be done. Then he also said this: 
Why was the impact of the funds on the Australian economy utterly ignored? It would have increased the national debt by $1,000 for the average Australian family. The amount approached the total income of all companies in Australia last year. 
He was referring to the proposed overseas borrowings from Arab countries by the Whitlam Labor Government. He continued: 
It exceeds the value of all wool, wheat and sugar produced in Australia last year. It is almost as much as total government spending on welfare. No comparable loan had ever been raised. At one stroke it would have increased Australia's overseas debt threefold. Yet the Government claims to be responsible. 
What is the position of this Government regarding overseas borrowings? I have before me statistics compiled by the Statistics Group of the Legislative Research Service. In 1976 borrowings were $254m. In 1976-77 they rose to $456m, and until 29 May 1978-the figures for June or July are not available- borrowings are $l,758m, making a total of over $2,000m. Is not this putting the country in hock? If Government senators want any further proof of it let them look at table 6- Summary of Commonwealth Government Budget Financing Transactions, 1968-69 to 1977-78, which the Leader of the Opposition asked to be incorporated in  Hansard.  That table shows that in 1968-69 total net overseas borrowings were $142m; in 1969-70 there were not any; in 1970-71 minimal; in 1971-72 minimal; in 1972-73 minimal; in 1973-74 the same situation; in 1974-75, with a Labor Government, $2m; in 1975-76 $126m; in 1976-77 $357m; and already in 1977-78 $l,612m. Honourable senators opposite are the people who in 1975 tried to tell the people of Australia that the Labor Government was putting this country in hock. We have never been in so much debt up to our ears as we have been in the last two years of this Government. 
As my Leader suggests, every picture tells a story, and that table will make good reading in  Hansard.  We turn to yet another Budget miscalculation- the family allowance means test which has since been abolished or considerably watered down and which was to yield $90m, as I said previously, for the six months period from 1 January 1979 to 30 June 1979. 
Before I conclude what better peroration could I have to this speech than words which have already been supplied by the Government itself through a former Minister for Housing who is probably one of the most qualified spokesmen on economic matters on the Government side. I refer to the Honourable Kevin Cairns. I now quote from  Hansard  of 23 August 1978, at page 638. This is the matter which  Mr Cairns  then referred to  Mr Staley,  who was representing the Treasurer: 
There are good reasons why this process- 
He was referring to the Loan Bill procedures- it is an engineering process- is to be done rather early in the Budget Debate. They are concerned with the rate of expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund. There are one or two points which I would like to raise in relation to these transfers. I hope that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley),  who is at the table, assisted by his advisers will be able to help me with them. The point is that the expenditure last year from the Consolidated Revenue Fund was $24,800m. The expenditure this year is proposed to be about $27, 700m. That is a substantial increase. The amount which is chargeable to the Loan Fund- that is, defence expenditure- this year is $ 1,903m, the amount which was so chargeable and transferable last year was $ 1,359m. So that amount has also been increased. Yet when we look in Budget Paper No. 4 at table 9 headed Estimates Expenditure from Loan Fund for the Year ending 30 June 1979, we see that there is to be a decrease in the expenditure from $4, 100m to $3,700m. So the expenditure is proceeding in the opposite direction. That gives rise to one or two questions which puzzle me in relation to this Bill. 
These remarks were made by a Government member and a former Minister.  Mr Kevin  Cairns went on to say: 
The defence expenditure transfer- if I can use that termfrom the Consolidated Revenue Fund is to be increased this year, yet the proposed deficit of the Government, both overall and domestic, will enjoy a substantial decrease. The CRF deficit is going up; the expenditure loan fund funding has to go down. We in politics all appreciate that these are measures appropriate each year. They relate to the rate of expenditure of funds. They demonstrate overall that nothing is as permanent in politics as a temporary expendient It has to occur each calendar year and each financial year. The simple question I put to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications - 
I would like to put this question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  now. I join with  Mr Kevin  Cairns in hoping that I will get an answer. I ask: Why is the transfer to the Loan Fund larger than last year despite the smaller deficit?  Mr Kevin  Cairns went on to state: 
It deserves an answer. It has puzzled me. I have looked through Budget Paper No. 4. 1 know that the Minister will be writing the question down now and if he cannot respond spontaneously I am sure he will respond a little later after consulting advisers and others. I say seriously that we would respect and expect a response to this question in the Parliament. 

 Senator Carrick has an advantage over  Mr Staley.  That question was asked by  Mr Kevin  Cairns on 23 August.  Senator Carrick  has a days start on the Minister in the other place. I shall conclude my speech on this note: Not only have many questions been asked by honourable senators on this side of the chamber which remain unanswered; apparently, there are also many which have been asked from the Government side in the other place. I enthusiastically support the amendment moved by my leader,  Senator Wriedt.  I seek leave of the Senate to incorporate in  Hansard  a table setting out Commonwealth Government overseas loan raisings for the period from March 1976 to May 1976 to May 1978. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="078232197808240_52_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="078232197808240_53_2.jpg"></graphic>

My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. In view of the significance of the recent Industries Assistance Commission inquiry into aspects of the sugar industry to sugar cane growers and millers and for sugar cane users and consumers, will the Minister give the Senate an assurance that the established IAC practice of releasing a draft report and holding a public inquiry to discuss that draft report will be followed? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether the Government is aware of the little, if any, formal instruction given at any medical school in Australia about Australian venom diseases and the treatment of bites from venomous Australian creatures such as snakes, spiders and some marine creatures. Is the Government concerned at this lack of knowledge in most Australian doctors and does the Government intend encouraging the introduction of such courses for medical students, particularly students in those areas of Australia where the incidents of such diseases is highest? Is the Government aware of the concern of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories at the lack of knowledge and the widespread misunderstanding among the medical profession about the correct management of snake bite? 

 - Mr President, I congratulate  Senator Puplick  on his maiden speech. He is a young senator and I believe he is fired with great enthusiasm. He is a young visionary. He has entertained us this evening with an excellent maiden speech. I do not want to become paternal in any way but as one who has been around this chamber for some time I want to say to him: Do not be misled by the generous kindness that is extended to you in the lobbys by members on both sides. No matter how much you are fired by great visionary ideals, you will not achieve much in this chamber. You will need your eloquence and your persuasion in your party room. 
I am encouraged to think that at last the Liberals have produced somebody who might have the fortitude, the initiative and the determination to try to achieve those objectives. I did not think I would ever stand up in this place after listening to a speech in which so many illustrious people were quoted. The honourable senator's speech reminded me of former  Senator Wright  for whom I had a great deal of time because of the contributions that he made in this chamber. I feel that we have in our midst a young man who, if he is encouraged by his party, can make a very worthwhile contribution to this Senate, and will enhance it. 
I was interested to hear his earlier quotations of Edmund Burke and the principles that he espoused. I was reminded of the time when Edmund Burke, replying in the House of Commons to an attack upon him by  Mr Fox,  said: 'I sincerely hope that no member of this House will ever barter the Constitution of his country, that eternal jewel of his soul, for a wild and visionary system which can only lead to confusion and disorder'. I hope that the honourable senator is the star on the horizon, that his star is in the ascendancy and that he can correct the misdemeanours of his colleagues and put them back on the rails. I hope that he can remind them of their performance and remind them of what, from 1972 to 1975 a popularly-elected government had to suffer at the hands of his colleagues. Towards the end of his speech he used the quotation 'Words, words, mere words, no matter from the heart'. I sincerely hope that he will not be influenced by his many colleagues who are millionaires in words but bankrupt in ideas. 
I turn now to the very serious business of this country; to the Budget that we are debating this evening. It is all very well to pursue the pleasantries and niceties involved in welcoming young and new senators to this place, but all of the rhetoric does nothing to reduce the number of unemployed. It is only by the advocacy of the people 's representatives in this chamber, by their expressing their opinions, that we may be able to do something about it. To be very honest, I enjoyed the address by the young senator and would have liked to have sat back comfortably and listened to him for a longer period, but we must get on with the business of the day. The Government cannot dodge its responsibility. 
The debate in which we are taking part this evening concerns what has been called a horror Budget. We have had horror Budgets before, but I submit that none more horrible has been presented since Federation- certainly, to come closer to home, since 1951. The members of the media have run out of adjectives to describe it. Experienced critics have been caustic in their condemnation of it. It has been referred to as a bankruptcy Budget. It has been called, although I do not know why, a bully's Budget. It has been called ' Fraser 's revenge'. It has been called a Budget that adopts 18th century methods to deal with 20th century problems. It has been described as a dishonest and unfair Budget- unfair because its restraints are directed at those who are least capable of bearing them; unfair because its whole strategy has been directed against the poor, the sick, the elderly and the great majority of Australian families. Anybody who has taken the time to read and study the Budget Papers, if he is honest must come down on the side of those who say that the Budget has been designed to make the rich richer and the poor poorer. 
Since I have made those accusations, I know that, naturally, honourable senators will expect me to support them with facts. First, let me consider the proposed increase in taxation. Not only is it to increase taxation, but also the Government has done something that very few governments since Federation, certainly none for many years, have done. It has made retrospective that increased taxation. Let us examine what the proposed taxation increase means to the average working man. A person earning less than $250 a week will pay 8 per cent more in taxation. Those who earn over $250 a week will suffer a steadily decreasing burden of additional taxation. To come closer to home and to make a more specific comparison, let me turn to the case of  Mr Fraser,  the Prime Minister himself. He earns $1,500 a week and will suffer a taxation increase of 5 per cent. Yet a person who earns less than $250 a week will suffer a taxation increase of 8 per cent. 
The average worker, who earns $200 a week, will, as a result of the increased taxes levied in the Budget, pay an additional $1.80 a week for petrol, $2 a week for beer and cigarettes, and $ 1.50 a week for clothing and footwear. If he is buying his own home, as all working people are endeavouring to do today, he will suffer, because no longer will there be a rebate on interest payments, an additional burden of $3.50 a week. As I noted earlier, the increased taxation on his income will amount to $3.20 a week. To look at it in another way he will, because of the Budget, be taking home $ 1 2 less in his pay packet. However, he will be accorded some relief. As a result of the Fraser Government's repudiating an election promise not to interfere with Medibank and its proceeding to dismantle it, he will save the $2 a week levy. Thus the average worker, who receives $200 a week, will be taking home in his pay packet $10 a week less than he would have if the Budget had not been introduced. 
To look at his situation in yet another way, if we multiply his loss by 52, we find that this Government has cheated him of the equivalent of three weeks annual leave payment. That is what it boils down to. The Government has taken from the average worker the equivalent of three weeks annual leave with pay. Medibank, of course, has been dismantled. Not only has the worker been hit but his relatives have also been hit. People over 70 years of age will not qualify for increases in pensions unless they can meet an income test. 
That is right. Unless they can meet an income test they will be denied any increases in their pensions. What about the person on unemployment benefit? If he has no dependants he will not receive any increases either. The child care and pre-school allocations have been smashed to smithereens. The maternity allowances have been cancelled. It is true that as a result of a second thought by the Government the family allowances have been reconsidered but it cannot be denied by the Government that in its original Budget Speech the newsboy who was selling newspapers or the kids who were running messages and perhaps earning a few dollars a week had to fill in an income statement. Depending on the amount of money they earned by running messages or selling newspapers their mothers' family allowances would have been reduced accordingly. It is true that the Government had a second thought on this matter but that was only due to the pressure of the Opposition and the Government members who have been left with some spark of humanitarianism. 
What about the increases in pensions? Instead of pensions being increased half-yearly they will now be increased yearly. This is another attack on those people who are less able to meet it. As if the Government had not been spiteful enough against the workers- someone said that this is a Budget of revenge- 100 per cent of accrued annual leave or long service leave will be taxed in the future instead of five per cent. I am an old railway man as are my colleagues,  Senator Bishop  and  Senator Mulvihill-  the salt of the earth. There were many occasions when due to the administration of the department railwaymen were not allowed to take their annual leave on account of staff shortages or some other consideration that arose unexpectedly. These men had to forgo their annual leave. Now this greedy Government says that these people who through no fault of their own have accrued annual leave will be taxed on 100 per cent of that leave in future instead of five per cent. 
I make an earnest and sincere appeal to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  who is in the chamber to use her persuasion in the party room. I think that her Government should consider exempting annual leave from that taxation provision. In most instances the leave has been accrued through no fault of the individual but through the requirements of the department. I have had letters from railway departmental heads. For the sake of security I will not say from which State they have come. These people have written to me personally knowing that in my early career I was a railway man. I know that they expect me to use whatever persuasion I have in this chamber to see whether some redress can be given or some correction made to that part of the legislation. 
I said earlier that the Budget is an unfair and dishonest Budget. I know that they are strong words to describe a Budget. I said that I would produce facts to support my claims. I believe that I have already given enough instances of where the Budget is unfair and discriminatory against the poor, the sick, the elderly and the great majority of our families. Why do I say that it is dishonest? Well you may ask me that question. I say that it is dishonest because an examination of the Budget Papers clearly discloses that in many instances the Government has underestimated expenditure and has overestimated receipts. In the limited time at my disposal this evening I shall give a few brief examples. One is that in the Budget Papers unemployment benefit payments for 1978-79 are based on the 1977-78 figures when unemployment was running at 265,000 people on average a month. Yet the Treasurer,  Mr Howard,  two days after delivering his Budget Speech, speaking to the National Press Club said that he believed that unemployment would average about 290,000 people a month. Accepting the Treasurer's figures that is an increase of 25,000 a month. If we multiply that figure by 12 and then multiply it by the amount of unemployment benefit payment we will see that there has been a serious underestimation in expenditure. But, of course, the Treasurer was very generous in saying that unemployment will average only 290,000 people a month. 
We know from all the statistical information available to us that at the moment 400,000 people in the community are unemployed. Three hundred thousand people are registered on the dole. We know that another 250,000 people have dropped out of the work force because jobs are not there for them. One does not have to be an Einstein or a Rhodes scholar to know that with Christmas approaching a further 225,000 children will finish school without jobs. I know that some of the more intelligent people on the Government side will say that that is an exaggerated figure. It is not an exaggerated figure because children who should have left school two years ago or last year went back to school. They cannot go back any more and they are now leaving. What on earth are we going to do about these young people? 
One of the saddest things about this country today is the number of decent young people who want and are prepared to work but are denied the opportunity to work. It is a very serious situation and I wish that this Government would accept the call of the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Bob  Hawke, for a conference on a non-party political basis so that we can get together to see what can be done for these unfortunate young people. The situation is as serious as it was in 1939 when we were talking about war councils and civil construction corporations. It is incumbent upon the Government to do something practical, and quickly, for these unfortunate young people. It was to the credit of the Whitlam Labor Government that it tackled this problem- one of the foremost tasks that confronted it- although now, I am very sorry to say, the sad story is getting sadder every day for these young people and for the Government. 
There are many things that I could talk about in relation to this Budget but I hope that if I have made any pertinent point, it has been to impress upon the Government that it should do something urgently and seriously to relieve the plight of these young people who are looking for work but cannot get it. In December the Government will be confronted with another quarter of a million young people being thrown onto the unemployment market but at Question Time in this chamber one would think that everything was rosy with the Government, that everything was going according to plan and that inflation was well in hand. There seems to be no regard for unemployment but, it would appear, inflation is in hand. We are reining in the economy, holding down expenditure, stimulating the private sector and holding down the deficit. A document which all honourable senators receive was placed on my table today. It is the Niemeyer statement for August, and it shows that whilst the Budget estimate for the deficit is $2,8 12m, for the month of August alone the deficit was $5 13m. The punch line is that the deficit already for the first two months of this fiscal year is $ 1,494m, more than 50 per cent of the projected estimate for the whole of the year. Only two months have passed and already the deficit is more than 50 per cent of what we were told in the Budget Speech it would be for the entire year. Receipts are the same except that in respect of company taxation there is an increase of $5 98m, but that is explained away because this Government eliminated the quarterly payment of company tax and then reintroduced it in such a way that it is now conveniently showing up in these figures. 
I will leave that matter and get on to the more important figure, the outlays. We were assured on 15 August that the Government knew what it was about and that the outlays would be contained at 7.1 per cent. Only two months have passed since the Budget was presented and on the Government's own figures the outlays for the two months to 31 August 1978 total $4,999mnearly $5 billion- an increase of 13 per cent over the outlays for the two months to 31 August 1977. I will repeat those figures for the Minister for Social Security because I know that she will be keen to get the advice of her advisers on this matter. In the Niemeyer paper, for the two months to 3 1 August 1978 - 
It is a paper that was tabled in this Parliament following the Great Depression of 1932-33. Stanley Melbourne Bruce felt that we did not have the brains in this country to get ourselves out of our difficulties and invited help from the authorities in England who sent out a man from the Bank of England,  Sir Otto  Niemeyer. The only thing that he told the Australian people to do was to tighten their belts and cut down. However, one good thing came out of it. He said 'You should give a profit and loss account each month', and that has occurred ever since 1932. The practice has not altered. The Niemeyer paper shows that the outlays, without getting too technical or statistical, are running at 13 per cent higher than last year instead of the Budget estimate of 7.1 per cent. In conclusion, despite all the things I have said this evening, I wonder whether we should ask ourselves why we were not told about all these restraints in the Fraser policy speech in 1 977. 
I ask this question on behalf of my colleague,  Senator Robertson,  who is otherwise engaged on parliamentary duty in another part of the House. The question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, is: Have plans been finalised for the relocation of the civil airport terminal at Darwin? If so, will the Minister indicate whether these will be made available for public inspection and comment and also when it is proposed that construction should commence?  Mr President,  you will not mark that down as a question against me, will you? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it correct that since 20 May the Australian Government has on five occasions borrowed overseas a total of 600 million Dutch florins, 400 million Swiss francs and 300 million German marks? Is it also correct that these loans are all in currencies which have been appreciating against the Australian dollar thus creating potential exchange losses in all the transactions? Has the Government's decision to increase its overseas borrowings in Euro currencies instead of United States dollars been on the basis of Treasury advice? If so, can the Minister enlighten the Senate by telling us the reasons given for this advice? 
On behalf of  Senator Robertson,  I present the following petition from 483 citizens of Australia: 
The  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament Assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth. 
That we are gravely concerned over the extreme weakness shown by our Prime Minister and his Government in his  handling of the uranium mining situation in the Northern Territory. 
While the Parliament allows a small group. of antigovernment advisers to Aboriginal organisations to delay the commencement of mining, the great majority of citizens and business people are being caused financial loss, and being denied the right to participate in a legitimate business. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that permission be given- and not again withdrawn- for mining to commence immediately. 
Petition received and read. 
How does the Leader of the Government in the Senate accept the fact that this Government has become the biggest borrower in the nation's history? Is the Minister aware that although these record borrowings were undertaken to stave off devaluation and to encourage an inflow of cash, in the past few weeks official reserves have dropped by $ 1 50m and there could be some outflow? As these matters are of major concern for the nation I ask the Minister: Is the Government hoping that the record borrowing of $700m from Japan will tide it through until inflow picks up? Further, how long is the Government prepared to keep borrowing overseas for these purposes, knowing the position of our asset backing? Finally, is the Minister prepared to defend the Government's position in the light of his strong views expressed during the period 1972 to 1975 regarding overseas borrowings and the risk of putting the nation in hock? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and follows the question I asked yesterday of the Minister. Is it correct that since coming to power in November 1975 the Fraser Government has borrowed in excess of $3,000m overseas? Is it also correct that the actual borrowings of the Labor Government are set out in table 6 at page 215 of the Budget Papers and total only $462m?  Senator Carrick  in his reply to me yesterday, as recorded in  Hansard,  said: 
The Khemlani loans amounted to some $US4,000m with interest rates of between 7.7 per cent and 8.35 per cent compound and with charges and commissions of 2.5 per cent. 
Does this mean that table 6 in this year's Budget Papers is incorrect? If so, will  Senator Carrick  explain why the Treasurer has taken this action, or is it that the sum of $4,000m was never borrowed and  Senator Carrick  's answer yesterday was incorrect? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and follows a series of questions that have been asked by my Leader,  Senator Wriedt,  and me in the past few days. Is it a fact that the Budget allocation for capital works in 1978-79 is down? Is it a fact that Commonwealth and State capital works represent a smaller proportion of Budget outlays than for many years, yet in the Treasurer's letter of 12 October 1978 to  Senator Wriedt  and me he accepted that Government overseas borrowings have been higher than for many years and stated that these borrowings have been used for developmental purposes? Will the Minister defend the Government's position by enlightening the Senate about the nature of the capital works that have occurred as a result of these borrowings which would not have occurred otherwise and will not occur in the future? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I am prompted to ask this question after having studied a statement tabled by the Minister on 9 June on foreign investment policies. I refer to paragraph (f) of the statement relating to a review of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act and ask the Minister. Is the review complete? If not, when is it likely to be completed and when can the Senate expect to be informed of any changes? Does the Government anticipate any changes to the existing provisions which require an environmental impact study to be undertaken before approval can be given by the Reserve Bank of Australia to an application by a foreign investor for a project to proceed. 
I address a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Given that the Government's claim that it has reduced the inflation rate to 7 per cent or 8 per cent is correct and being aware that the unemployment rate is at an all-time high of 6 per cent, will the Minister tell the Senate what has gone wrong with the Government's prediction that as the inflation rate fell so too would unemployment decrease when, in fact, the opposite is the case? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I am prompted to ask the question because of the question asked by  Senator MacGibbon.  Is the Minister aware that the United States of America has received what amounts to a snub from the Australian Government when seeking top level talks with Australia on cut-rate fares for the Pacific? This follows claims made by  Sir Freddie  Laker that he was misrepresented and deceived by the Australian Government on cut-rate fares to the United Kingdom. Will the Minister defend the Government's position and make a declaration of policy on cut-rate fares, thus putting an end to all the uncertainty and speculation on the subject? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is he aware that the amount by which Australia was failing to pay its way in trading in goods and services as at 30 June 1978 was represented by a deficit of some $2,4 10m? Is the Minister also aware that for the three months ended September the deficit on current account was even worse, running at the annual rate of $3. 900m, and in two months will reduce our international reserves which are approximately $3,000m to bedrock unless the Government continues heavy borrowing overseas? Will the Minister defend the Government's position and deny that capital inflow to cover our excessive imports is proving to be a bad deal, getting us further and further into debt and under foreign control? Does not the Minister think it is about time the public was told how the Government proposes to get us out of the mess into which it has put us? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is the Government's borrowing overseas or its seeking of overseas capital only a palliative- using other people's capital to pay for our excessive imports? Is it a fact than net interest and dividents  of $ 1,527m accounted for 61 per cent of our deficit on current account for the financial year 1977-78? Why do the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Howard  not want to talk about this mess? Is it a fear of frightening off capital inflow and making borrowing difficult? 
After listening to  Senator Rae  when he foreshadowed another amendment I felt like the Irish policeman who apprehended a prisoner and, after interrogating him, said: 'You may be right, you may be wrong, but I do not think so '. I came into the chamber earlier today with an open mind to sit and listen to the propositions that would be advanced. With the greatest of respect to the legal fraternity and to our own Queen's Counsel from South Australia, I became more and more confused as dme went on. I do not think that I have been the only one in that situation, because we have a motion, amendments, foreshadowed amendments and probably more to come. However, we are discussing a very serious matter on which all honourable senators have a conscience vote. I believe quite sincerely that the matter has been thoroughly canvassed throughout the day and into half the evening. After listening to the speeches one thing has become crystal clear to me; that is, that we find ourselves in the dilemma we are in at present for one reason only- the Silence of Dean Maitland attitude that has been adopted by the Minister. He has remained strangely silent on this whole matter. If he had given some lead or expression of opinion we may have been able to resolve this much more easily. 
-Well, he has been very silent about it.  Senator Teague  is able to tell me. Has he spoken about it? 
He has not spoken on it. As far as this national Parliament is concerned, only four people in the Australian Capital Territory could properly seek clarification of the position, and one of them is  Senator Sue  Ryan. I believe that  Senator Susan  Ryan has acted properly and correctly in bringing this matter forward. I want to dissociate myself from those who have vilified her and put her under extreme pressure for the stand that she has taken. I want to compliment her on the fact that throughout this campaign she has comported herself with credit and dignity and has acted responsibly as a senator representing the Australian Capital Territory. 
I am opposed to the establishment of private abortion clinics but I support the facilities that are already operating in the Canberra Hospital. I do not want to speak at any length because I want to indicate to the chamber the way in which I am going to vote, but allow me to address myself to the question before us. What is the debate really about? When we push away the trees and look at the wood, what is the debate really about? As I see it, the purpose of the motion is to provide a public clinic in the hospital grounds. Who will deny that there are already adequate facilities in the Canberra Hospital? To support this contention may I give a concrete illustration? I quote from report No. 26 regarding pregnancy termination of the Standing Committee on Education and Health of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. Paragraph 83 on page 38 says: 
The Decision Making Process 
The Standing Committee understands that all legal abortions performed in the ACT at the present time are performed under the auspices of the Terminations Committee. The Terminations Committee is comprised of an Obstetrician and Gynaecologist, a Psychiatrist, a General Practitioner, a Physician and a Hospital Administrator. Each member is nominated by their respective Colleges, and one member is usually a woman. 
Paragraph 84 says: 
The  Chairman  of the Terminations Committee tendered the following advice: 
The Terminations Committee was formed in October 1970. From that date to 21st March, 1977 1,106 applications have been received by the Committee. Of these 22 were withdrawn after being received. Of the remainder 49 were not approved. The rest were approved. The Committee acts for both Canberra and Woden Valley Hospitals. 
That means that over 1,000 applications have been approved. The facilities are there, they are being applied for and they are being carefully supervised. I do not know why anyone wants to disturb what is already in existence. To give the other speakers on your list,  Mr President,  the opportunity to express their views, I will sum up by saying, as I said earlier, that before the debate started I came into the chamber with an open mind. Having heard the arguments advanced, I must come down on the side of those who are opposed to the motion and the amendments before us. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Has the Government made the reduction of the deficit an absolutely essential part of its economic policy? Are the drastic and hurtful measures imposed on the community a result of the Government's promise to reduce last year's deficit of $3,300m? Is the Minister aware that the right of the States to borrow overseas will increase the total Australian deficit when compared with the Federal deficit? Finally, if this is so, why did the Government engage in this crude deception, designed to confuse the Federal deficit with the total deficit? 
-I am prompted to take part in this debate briefly. I speak as one with 12 years experience in a hotel of my own on the Gold Coast. For some time I have been looking at the estimates of the House Committee. The emphasis has been on subsidised meals and subsidised liquor, but I do not think any of us should be misled by that claim because that situation is not brought about by the members of Parliament or senators. In this place staff and their friends use these facilities. When we go home, they are still using them and using them much more extensively and extravagantly than any of us ever use them. I do not want to make that my main point. I do not know where  Senator Mason  got his information but I am reliably informed that top prices are being charged in the bar. 
The main cost component is hidden in the staffing of these ventures. I do not know who has the responsibility for rostering the staff but whoever it is acts with no experience. One sees three or four staff members standing behind a bar wanting to serve one or two people. That state of affairs would not be tolerated for half an hour in any decent hotel. If the standard of the management is reflected in the way this place is run, those people responsible in the Joint House Department should be sent away to a hotel management course to learn how to cater and run bar facilities. If they were taught management costing, the Government subsidy of $500,000 which is described by public servants as a handout to parliamentarians would be considerably reduced. If a person who has had experience at hotel management on the catering and liquor side were appointed to supervise activities in Parliament House, there would be a dramatic change overnight. 
No, if I wanted to do it, I would retire from the Senate and go back into the hotel business. Why should I do it here for nothing? I repeat that the people in the Joint House Department who are responsible for running the bar and catering facilities in this place have no experience or special training in hotel management. The facilities under which the bar staff and kitchen staff have to work are deplorable. They would not be tolerated by the health department of any State or local authority in Australia. If these premises were not within the confines of the building that houses the national Parliament, they would fail dismally to meet the requirements of any local authority or State health department officer who inspected them. I have taken time off to inspect the facilities behind the members' bar to see where the glass washing machines are. They would be condemned if ever a health inspector were called in to find out whether they came up to requirements. The same applies to the facilities with which the kitchen staff have to work. How on earth can the management cope with the modern hotel management accountancy methods today when the staff are using equipment that was modern in the nineteenth century? 
Yes. I cannot let the point go that parliamentarians are being subsidised by $500,000. We should take stock of ourselves. When we look thoroughly at the statistics we will find that the Joint House Department is top heavy with administration. Many people other than parliamentarians are using the facilities of the bar and kitchen. To give one example, I would like to look at the florist account that comes into the Joint House Department. I am reliably told that the account is debited to the members' and members' dining rooms. We never see a great display of flowers in either of those dining rooms except at a State function but when one walks into the Speaker's office or the President's office one sees a great floral display. The charges for those flowers are debited against the members' dining rooms. Before we have any soul-searching in this place about the perks accruing to members of Parliament, we should thoroughly examine these aspects. Before we make half-cocked criticisms we should bring in some hotel management experts to look at the place. We should bring in some health department experts and other people who have some experience in this field. Let them give an independent report on just what is wrong with the Joint House Department at which my criticism is directed. How can we expect the Joint House Department to run a firstrate show economically, professionally and decently when those who are in charge have had no experience or training in the matters in which they are supposed to be versed? 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet 
Proposed expenditure- $48,666,000- agreed to. 
Department of the Treasury 
Proposed expenditure, $253,067,000. 
I would like the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  to consider another matter during the suspension of the sitting. I thought that the Public Accounts Committee carried out the scrutiny of the Advance to the Minister for Finance. I hope that this motion will not cut across that long established principle which is written into our procedures. 
Sitting suspended from  6  p.m. to  8  p.m. 
I do not oppose this matter being referred to the Standing Orders Committee for consideration and report to the Senate. I cannot see any real dangers in adopting that procedure. I hope that when it is considered by the Standing Orders Committee that Committee will be cognisant of the fact that the scrutiny of the Advance to the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  is carried out by the Public Accounts Committee. 
I am getting away from that. I have not heard that explained yet. I always thought that committees of the Senate could take evidence in camera. I have been on committees that have taken that course of action. 
I do not know whether it is good to allow Estimates committees to do so. Has it ever been done? Yes, I contested this matter with the Australian Broadcasting Commission. My action brought about a change in the regulations. At the time, I was supported by ex-Senator Murphy and ex-Senator James McClelland. The matter was referred to the Committee of the Whole and the Senate decided that the ABC had to make the information available. As the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  will recall, the late  Senator Greenwood,  who was the Attorney-General at the time, and the ABC argued against me. They said that if the Commission made the information available it would be at a disadvantage compared with its competitiors in commercial radio. This matter was pursued at great length. It had the support of ex-Senator  Sir Robert  Cotton,  Senator Guilfoyle  and the late  Senator Greenwood.  The matter was referred to this Senate as a whole. It carried a motion that the ABC had to make the information available. That course of action was followed only on the final decision of the Senate. 
I hope that when these matters are referred to the Standing Orders Committee all the research will be done. I am a member of the Standing Orders Committee. I indicate now that I think that the way the matter was researched and pursued by the Senate on the earlier occasion to which I referred seemed to fill every requirement that was necessary. Being heavily involved in that matter at that time, I am at a loss to see what this will achieve when the Senate can achieve it by raising the matter at Estimates committee hearings. If the department or authority concerned still wants to withhold information, the Senate can ask that body to make it available. If it still insists that it will not make it available, the Senate as a whole, if it thinks that it is important enough, can vote and direct the department to make the information available. That provision is already in existence. I do not know what this motion will achieve. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Department of Social Security 
Proposed expenditure, $304,604,000. 
Can the Minister representing the Treasurer indicate whether the Government has given consideration to abolishing sales tax on solar appliances? If not, can the Minister indicate what is the Government's attitude on the matter, in view of the importance of this technology to Australia? 
I am prompted to speak on division 482, subdivision 1 of the estimates for the Postal and Telecommunications Department, relating to the payment to the Australian Broadcasting Commission of $136,176,000, because the duty devolves to my colleagues and me who represent Queensland and the Northern Territory. In the case of Queensland, I refer particularly to the outback areas, the remote areas which are wholly dependent upon the ABC for television coverage. Regrettably, because of the Government's restraint on finance available to the ABC and the staff ceilings that the Government has imposed, the ABC no longer is a serious competitor for commercial stations when tendering for sporting programs. Due to the Government's restricted economic policies, commercial stations have captured the televising rights for major sporting events. I refer to Channel 7, which has the football coverage, and Channel 9, which has the tennis and cricket coverage. They now have a monopoly. The technical skills, the photography and the presentation of programs in the ABC coverage were of high quality and a credit to the administration of the ABC. The programs brought first-class entertainment to viewers and, I must say, were tremendously popular. What is the position now? This is what interests me. Channel 7 and Channel 9 have a monopoly of the market and the ABC has missed out. Who are the main losers? That is the point on which I shall speak this evening. Of course, there are the country people living in the outback areas and in the Northern Territory. They are living in what I describe as a sporting desert because there is no reception for Channels 7 and 9. This matter was freely canvassed earlier by my colleagues in the Senate,  Senator Ted  Robertson from the Northern Territory, and  Senator Colston.  I am thankful to  Senator Martin  and to  Senator MacGibbon  on the opposite side of the chamber because they have raised the matter also. For that reason, honourable senators will realise that our approach is on a non-party political line. Last March I had the opportunity to tour southwestern and western Queensland covering areas like Charleville, Cunnamulla, Augathella, Mungallala, Mitchell, Longreach and other areas out there. I met community leaders. 
In the Charleville area, the feelings were strong. While I was on tour I received a telegram asking me whether I could possibly go to Charleville to meet a representative gathering of people in the area to discuss the lack of ABC coverage, particularly of sporting events in those areas which I described earlier as a sporting desert. The deputation was led by one of the community leaders from Charleville,  Mr Errol  Hodda. Two other gentlemen who were interested in community affairs were  Mr Mike  Gordon and  Mr Bill  Ludwig and they were there. As I said earlier, it was a truly representative gathering of all sections of the community. As a result of this meeting- I was wearing my other hat as  President  of the Queensland Rugby League- I told them that the Queensland Rugby League would approach the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I am speaking now on behalf of the Queensland Rugby League. I indicated that we would offer a program to the ABC, free of cost. We would allow it to telecast at 6 p.m. a replay of the Sydney match of the day to the country areas of Queensland. It accepted our offer, of course. It was a very generous offer. It was one of the most important decisions that the Queensland Rugby League had made. Naturally, the ABC would accept that offer because it would cost nothing. As I said, it was one of the most extremely popular replays in New South Wales and in the city areas of Queensland. But it could not get out into the country areas. I mention that as a genuine indication that the sporting body I represent is prepared to help the ABC overcome its difficulties. But this has led us to the situation where the ABC, because of the financial restraint and staff ceilings imposed on it by this Government, said that it was not in a position to compete with the commercial stations in Australia in tendering for major sporting programs, whether they be football, tennis or cricket. In my capacity as the  President  of the Queensland Rugby League and as a member of the Australian Rugby League we considered tenders from the commercial stations for exclusive commercial rights to televise rugby league in this nation. When we accepted a tender from one of the commercial stations- financially, it was much superior to anything offered by the ABC- I had written into the agreement that I would only agree to it provided that the ABC had the right to pick up that telecast and show it to areas that could not be covered by commercial television stations. I wanted an assurance from the commercial stations that that right would be given at a reasonable fee. The Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  in this chamber earlier this week said that money was the trouble. I can assure him that money is not the trouble. I pursued this matter. When I made telephone calls to various State centres I was told: 'We did not know how to block out the advertising'. How the hell is it that they did not know how to block out the advertising? 
I thought television replays stopped to show the advertising. When I spoke to the top people in the ABC they said that policy had been laid down by the members of the Australian Broadcasting Commission- whoever they are. They are the people in charge of the staff and everybody else. They said: 'We will not be second rate. We will not cop this pittance, nor will we be mendicants. If we cannot have the whole show we will not accept anything'. That is right. I see honourable senators shaking their heads. It is an edict of the Commission. I stand here this evening and I will defy any challenge to my statement that the Commission has laid it down steadfastly that it will not accept a pick-up of a commercial station. If any honourable senator wants to challenge me I will produce a letter showing quite conclusively that this is the case. It has been said that that policy is in keeping with what happens with the British Broadcasting Commission. One sporting organisation was prepared to make this offer and I am sure that other sporting organisations would be prepared to do the same thing. If the ABC does not have sufficient funds, due to the Government's stringent financial policy, to broadcast a sporting event and if a sporting organisation says: 'We will allow you to televise a replay at a reasonable price', then it should be left to the common sense of the administrators of that sporting organisation to decide what is a good and reasonable price. I thought that the offer made by the Queensland Rugby League was a genuine offer. We believe that the Commission has a policy that when it misses out on the rights to televise it will not become mendicants of second rate stations by picking up the tab for country people. I thought the ABC represented the people of Australia. I thought it was the people's station. I know that there are more viewers in the capital cities than elsewhere but we still owe something to the people in the country areas and the remote areas. For that reason I am very disappointed with the ABC. My criticism is probably more correctly directed at the Commission. If I am not using the correct nomenclature, it is because I do not understand the intricacies of the establishment. I am not attacking the staff, the employees. My criticism is directed at those who are denning policy. It is the policy of the Commission that it will not pick up a second rate telecast and show it anywhere else. The Minister said it was a matter of finance. 
He said that earlier. I will remind the Minister of the current situation. I know he is genuine in his remarks. Many honourable senators have spoken on this subject. The Minister said it was a matter of programming. I have been told this too. But is it not a strange thing that the direct telecast from Sydney of the match of the day on Saturdays can be blacked out in metropolitan areas but shown in country areas? What is the difference between having a blackout here, if the commercial stations can show the program, and having a delayed television broadcast by the ABC somewhere else? I am not setting myself up as a technical man but I do not think that the approach of the ABC to this matter is genuine. I have a lot more to say about this subject but I note that time is slipping by. To summarise the position, I think that the Commission- if I am using the right term to describe those who are directing policy- has made a hasty and intemperate decision. It has said: 'Because we cannot get the lot we will not play second fiddle'. 
The second point is this: A hard look should be taken at the way in which the finances of the ABC are allocated for sporting functions. I know that the capital cities of Sydney and Melbournethe capital cities of the standard States- have the best arguing point but there are four other States that comprise this Commonwealth. When money is provided to secure the rights for national replay of events that occur in Sydney and Melbourne, some regard should be had for the people in whose areas these replays will be telecast. 
No matter how much money is provided to channels in Sydney to screen rugby league, if we in Queensland say that we will not take the telecast on relay it cannot be shown. Substantial sums of money may be paid to people in Sydney to secure national television rights, but if we say: No, you cannot show it unless some recognition of needs in our area is accorded us', and the response is: 'We have already paid', a difficulty arises. It is about time that the ABC thought further than Sydney and Melbourne and had a look at the position overall. My final word to the Minister is that I have a lot of respect for his genuineness in trying to correct these problems. But money and programming are not as important in the decision that has been made as is the obstinate attitude of the Commission which says: If we cannot have the lot, we do not want any part of anything else. ' 

 -Mr President, it being the last day of sitting for this year, I seek leave to present a petition which was not received in time to meet the requirements of Standing Order 176.I ask that the text of the petition be incorporated in the  Hansard  record. 
Leave granted. 
The petition read as follows- 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble Petition respectfully showeth: 
That the decision of the Australian Government to depart from its 197S election promise, a promise re-affirmed during the 1977 election campaign, that pensions would be increased twice-yearly in line with increases in the C.P.I., will seriously add to the economic burdens now borne by those citizens who are wholly or mainly dependent on their pensions. 
Your petitioners are impelled by this fact to call upon the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to review the abovementioned decision, and to determineThat pensions will be increased twice yearly in line with rises in the C.P.I. as promised by the Prime Minister in his 1975 policy speech. 
Your petitioners, as in duty bound, will every pray. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs aware of the growing public concern for the preservation of the historic Bellevue Hotel building situated in George Street, Brisbane? Can the Minister confirm that an objection has been lodged by the Queensland State Government to the inclusion of the Bellevue Hotel in the register of the National Estate? 
I rise to second the amendment to the State Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill so ably moved by my colleague  Senator Gietzelt.  Before addressing myself to the Bill I would like to make one or two observations. It has become clear to us on this side of the Senate that when it comes to election time the Liberals have no peers as promisers. I am reminded of Lloyd George who went to the polls in Great Britain as Prime Minister on the promise that if he was re-elected he would hang the Kaiser. We all know, as history reveals, that Lloyd George won the election but the Kaiser died peacefully in his bed 20 years later. Throughout the years, since Lloyd George's time and to the present time, we have seen the Liberals establish a record of broken promises unequalled by any other political party. We on this side of the Senate know them to be people who change their minds every full moon. They twist and turn and change their minds at the drop of a hat. I have used the quotation I am about to read before but it is worth reminding Government senators opposite of it again. Somebody once wrote about them: 
A merciful providence fashioned them hollow on purpose that they might their principles swallow. 
It is equally true of them today as when it was written about them previously. In 1977 the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  promised in his election policy speech to provide $60m annually over five years for urban public transport in all States. In other words, a total of some $300m over five years was promised to assist the States in upgrading their public transport systems. An Act was to provide payments to the States at the rate of $60m a year, of which $40m was to be allocated to the States in fixed guaranteed amounts with the remaining $20m to be allocated annually on the basis of needs and priorities assessed in the light of proposals submitted by the States themselves. In fact, honourable senators will recall that even at that time the States were unanimous in their opinion that the annual amount offered to them was barely adequate to sustain existing public transport services and facilities. 
I refer now to what is happening at present. This year the needs component has been dropped altogether. The reason given is the difficult budgetary situation that existed in 1978 and still exists in 1979. It is a case of another broken promise, of another promise being repudiated by the Government. One of the great faults that we on this side of the chamber see with the new urban public transport scheme is that the escalation provision incorporated in the 1973-78 assistance scheme introduced by the Labor Government has been dropped completely. 
Despite all the claims and the horrendous unemployment policies of the Federal Government over the past three years, the rate of inflation was in double digit figures until quite recently and, most importantly, it is still running at between 8 per cent and 9 per cent per annum. Between 1971 and 1975 it averaged 10 per cent. Despite all the talk, the Federal Government has made little impact on the inflation rate. Consequently, the value of the limited transport grants is being whittled away during each year of the five-year scheme. Obviously, the less granted in the early years the less value there is in the scheme. It needs to be recalled that the original offer by the Labor Government in 1973 was quite generous. lt was $500m in 1973 dollars, spread over five years with compensatory escalation provisions. All the State Premiers of the day hailed it as a massive breakthrough. It is a matter of some relief that the scheme is being continued at all by the scrooge-like coalition government, which seems dedicated to paralysing the community. 
The Prime Minister conned the electors in his 1977 policy speech when he made the grandiose promise to undertake a five-year program to upgrade critical sections of the national railway network. The gloss soon wore off after the election. It transpired that only $70m was to be made available over five years, averaging out at $ 14m a year to be split between the States. This year the $ 14m is back to $3m for all the States, which is hardly enough to buy more than a few sleepers. We are now in the position where, our forebears having built the railway stations that we have today, we are having difficulty in finding enough money to paint them. That was said in the other place by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  How true it is. It also transpires that the present $3m for central railway works is to be in the nature of a loan to the States and not a grant. It will be up to the States to pay the interest on such a loan. So much for the Commonwealth's concern for the country's railway system. 
The whole situation has to be considered against the background that the Commonwealth still commands the major taxation resources of this country. One has only to look at the $300m ripped off the motorists in 1977-78 by the 10c a gallon world parity crude oil levy and the even more horrendous 16c a gallon levy imposed this year to yield $676m from the same source. Despite the claims of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  levies of this kind have proved worldwide not to be fuel conservation measures. They are a naked tax on the motorist pouring millions of dollars into the Commonwealth coffers. We on this side feel that there might be some justification if the money were channelled into areas that would promote fuel conservation by the construction of adequate road systems, the funding of oil research programs or improvements to alternative public transport facilities. Unfortunately this is simply not happening. 
Let me turn my attention closer to home. What is happening in Queensland? A prominent person in Queensland said firstly that increases from the Federal Government would have to be across the board before he would be satisfied. Similarly, he is far from happy about the matter of cost escalation and the Federal Government's barefaced withdrawal from the commitment made under the Labor Government to support automatically cost escalation. Secondly, he has publicly stated that the electrification of railways, the wider urban public transport issues and the expenditure on roads should be coordinated rather than separated as they are now. As a result of the separation we sometimes find the thought and purpose behind the policy running in contrary directions. Honourable senators may well ask me this evening who was the author of those words. Was it the Leader of the Labor Opposition or a prominent Labor front bencher? No, it was none other than the National Party Minister for Transport in Queensland, the Honourable Russell Hinze, a man everyone will agree not renowned for his Labor Party sympathies. 
It appears to me that for the ratepayers of Brisbane the two issues which we are discussing this evening are of particular importance. After all, the Brisbane local authority which is Australia's largest is the only capital city authority responsbile for public transport. For those who live and work in the metropolitan area, a large proportion of the cost of local authority road maintenance as well as maintenance of the public transport system is carried by the local ratepayer. From the point of view of protection of the public interest, we all agree that it is eminently sensible that Brisbane's metropolitan bus services are provided by the City Council. 
The 2 1 aldermen of the Council are directly responsible to their constituents for the nature and standard of the bus service provided in that area. While on the one hand it can be readily and undeniably demonstrated that Brisbane's bus service is best administered by the City Council, it is most difficult to justify the Council's having to bear from the general rate the majority of costs associated with providing this fundamental service. If it is accepted that the provision of unprofitable bus services in Brisbane is a legitimate metropolitan function, then it is difficult to understand why that should be funded from general taxation and duties. No other capital city in Australia funds its public transport services from property taxes. Every metropolitan public transport undertaking in other States and the suburban passenger division of the Queensland railways derive their funding support from the Consolidated Revenue accounts of their respective States. 
On behalf of  Senator Gietzelt  I present the following petition from 62 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister who represents the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Following upon questions by Senators MacGibbon and Martin, and a speech by myself on the failure of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to take up the offer made by commercial stations to allow the ABC access to replays of major sporting events to outback areas where the commercial stations are unable to provide a signal, the Minister at the time replied that the cost of the program was one of the reasons why the ABC has not taken up the offer. I ask the Minister. Is he aware that ATN7 in a letter to the Australian Rugby League Association, one of the major sports referred to, stated: 
We would be happy to make the program available free of charge to cover this pocket. Should the ABC not accept this arrangement an alternative could be that Channel 7 would provide cassettes of the games to the rugby league clubs in any of the towns involved. 
In the light of this information will the Minister inquire from the ABC as to what is the real reason for its attitude in this matter? 
Prior to the adjournment last evening I was putting a case concerning the Brisbane City 
Council, which is the largest local authority in Australia and which has the responsibility of running and controlling the bus services in the metropolitan area of Brisbane. It seems to me to be a very unfair impost on the ratepayers of Brisbane that the major portion of the losses incurred in running the bus services in Brisbane has to be met out of the general rate. The Brisbane City Council and the ratepayers of Brisbane are concerned that this is the case. The situation is aggravated by the niggly approach of the State Government, which does not appear to pass on the finances that it should be passing on to the Brisbane City Council for maintaining this bus service. That leads me now into speaking in continuation of the debate last evening. 
I now desire to point out that in contrast with what happens in the city of Brisbane, every metropolitan public transport undertaking in the other States and the suburban railway system of the Queensland railways derive their funding support from Consolidated Revenue in their respective States. In the last year under a new arrangement with the Queensland Government the Brisbane City Council has been provided with a sum amounting to 50 per cent of fare collections. I am given to understand that the rate will rise to only 60 per cent in equal annual steps over a five-year period. For the year 1 977-78 the State Government's contribution will amount to only 36 per cent of the anticipated revenue shortfall with respect to bus services of the Brisbane City Council. The remaining shortfall, estimated at about $8.7m, will be met by the Council from general rates. The State Government's arrangement fails to provide an adequate level of support so that the ratepayers are still required to pay nearly two-thirds of the cost of providing Brisbane with its present standard of bus services at the present fare and wage levels. The Brisbane Metropolitan Transit Authority has recognised the worldwide experience that few public transport programs, if any, are able to cover capital and operating costs wholly from fares while meeting the standard consistent with community expectations. Surely everyone will agree that it is cheaper to move people than to move vehicles. In the United States of" America with its new-found energy consciousness that realisation is growing. I can recall that a Senate select committee recommended some time ago that the Federal Government subsidise both capital investment in and the operating costs of public and private urban transport systems. But until now the Government has yet to appreciate the value of such an approach. 
Before I conclude allow me to tell the Senate about the cause of the greatest bitterness about Brisbane 's transport, which focuses on the State Government's reliance on what is known as the Brisbane City Council transport undertaking and the cost to the Council of providing a bus service. In its deliberations with the Grants Commission in assessing Queensland's need as a claimant State, Queensland based its Grants Commission case substantially on Brisbane's public transport system. When as a result of this factor Queensland's grant was increased significantly by the Grants Commission, no appreciable support or finance flowed to the Brisbane City Council. This was despite an assurance given at the time by the then State Treasurer,  Sir Gordon  Chalk, who said: 
If the State is successful in extending its claim in this new field, it would be in a much better position to assist the Council with its urban transport losses. 
Surely there must be a responsibility for the State government to pass on such moneys as the Commonwealth intends to give to the rightful recipients. By way of a final word, on behalf of the Brisbane ratepayers I appeal to the Government, if it will not change its mind on deferring the $20m reduction in grants for special needs for urban transport, at least to give some consideration to other avenues of relief for the Brisbane City Council and others who are so affected by this reduction. 
I preface my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate by saying that if the question that I am about to ask seems familiar it is because it has all been said before and by none other than  Senator Carrick  in 1975. My question refers to the unemployment level of more than 400,000 and the efficacy or otherwise of the Budget in meeting this disastrous situation. I refer also to the Minister's response 'that we see no need to recast the Budget' and that time will prove that it is the best Budget possible in the present economic circumstances. I ask the Minister: Is that not a flat admission of total defeatism and demoralisation, an abject acceptance that a level of 400,000 unemployed is inevitable and an indication that nothing beyond the Budget will be done to alleviate it? Alternatively, what positive steps in addition to the Budget are proposed by the Government to overcome this disaster? As the unemployment rate is now even greater than it was then, I invite the Minister to give the Senate the benefit of his answer on the subject. 
I preface my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate by stating that despite commitments by  Mr Lynch  in March 1976 and  Mr Eric  Robinson in December 1976 that the Government would introduce a natural disaster insurance scheme, the Government has now, three years later, decided to scrap the proposal. I ask: Is this not a sellout of property holders in potential natural disaster areas? Will the Minister assure the Senate that the Government is not considering reducing the amount of Commonwealth funds paid to the States for disaster relief? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. I ask the Minister whether, in view of the Queensland Government's arbitrary decision to ban the social education course known as the Social Education Materials Project, including its component The Consumer in Society', from the curriculum of Queensland schools, he would consider making available in all Queensland schools a copy of the book produced for the Trade Practices Commission entitled  Shoppers Rights- A Guide Book to Consumers' Problems. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Minister aware that the sugar mill suppliers of north Queensland have expressed anger and disappointment because they feel that the Government has let them down? Is he aware that they claim that the Government is not fully cognizant of the severe economic depression in the sugar industry in general? Is he aware that the millers are claiming that the refusal of the Government to grant the industry a reasonable rise in the domestic price of sugar was a severe blow and has caused consternation among the growers? Is he aware that the increase in fuel prices was, to quote the millers: 'Similar to kicking a man when he was down'? Is the Minister prepared to defend the Government's position. 
I rise this afternoon because last Thursday I had my name on the list of senators wishing to speak on the National Fitness Amendment Bill but, due to a prior engagement, was unable to fulfil that commitment. So infrequent are the opportunities for the Senate to discuss the Government's financial support for recreation and sport that I regretted having to miss that opportunity. So today I am using the provisions of Standing Order 190, which states that on a first reading of a money Bill a senator may speak on a matter which is relevant or not relevant to the subject, The money Bill that is being debated in the Senate now is the Poultry Industry Levy Amendment Bill 1979.I give notice to the Senate that that will be the only time I will use the word poultry ' throughout my address this afternoon. 
In speaking to this Bill I would like to make some observations on the National Fitness Amendment Bill that was before the Senate last Thursday. I do not propose to make the speech that I intended to make on that occasion, but I feel inclined to make a few observations in order to place on record in  Hansard  a comparison between what this Government is doing and what the Labor Government did in providing financial assistance to sport and recreation. A long succession of Federal governments have been niggardly in their approach to sport and recreation. In fact, it took until 1939 for any Federal government to do anything worthwhile about giving a lead in this direction. In 1939 the National Fitness Council was formed as a wartime measure. It met all its objectives and did a good job. What 
I have to say tonight is in no way a reflection on the longline of officers and members who served on that Council diligently and well and to the best of their ability, given the finance that was available to them, to achieve the objectives that were set for them. I had the honour of working closely with the National Fitness Council of Australia throughout the Labor Government's period of office from 1972 to 1975 because the then Minister for Tourism and Recreation, the Honourable Frank Stewart, appointed me as the Government representative on that Council. I was able to observe closely the functions of this Council. It became increasingly obvious to me that the Council was not geared in any way whatsoever to meet the requirements of the 1970s. 
In many ways we can be compared with the United States of America and, I suppose, in sport and recreation we can also take America as a comparison. In that country in 1960  President  John F. Kennedy formed the President's Council for National Fitness but 10 years later the Congress felt that it was inadequate and needed upgrading. It formed another committee of 14 members under the chairmanship of James Lovell, an astronaut. One of the requirements of six or seven of the members serving on that committee was that they be specialists in national fitness. Here in Australia we have an abundance of talent available to do a job equally as well as America or any other country can do. We have men of rare skills and experience in the medical sports associations of Australia. Many of them have played a prominent part in research that has been acclaimed internationally. But their efforts are stifled by lack of finance. Inadequate finance is made available for furthering the ideals to which these people are so dedicated. 
I have the practical experience of being the  president  of the controlling body of the major sport of Queensland. I have reason to travel the length and breadth of Queensland. I cannot help noticing that many sporting bodies would be bankrupt were it not for chook raffles. Everywhere people are propping up sport by selling tickets in chook raffles. If we were honest with ourselves we would erect a monument to the chook in every provincial town not only in Queensland but througout Australia. This state of affairs is brought about by the lack of Government support or sponsorship for sport. If one were to do any research into this matter one would find that it was left to the Labor Government in 1972 to take the first positive step towards remedying the situation. 
That is what we hear, but history will prove how right the Whitlam Government was in many areas. One will recall the policy speech of the incoming Prime Minister, (Gough Whitlam), on 13 November 1972. He had this to say: 
There is no greater social problem facing Australia than the good use of leisure. It is the problem of all modern and wealthy communities. It is, above all, the problem of urban societies and thus, in Australia, the most urbanised nation on earth, a problem more pressing for us than for any other nation on earth. For such a nation as ours this may very well be the problem of the 1980s. 
On becoming the Government, the Labor Party- its record shows that what Labor promises Labor will do immediately carried out a major overhaul of recreational needs in Australia. How did it do this? 
Never before has Australia been so much in hock as it is today when the balance of payments has us in such a perilous state that we have borrowed $2,000m in the last two years whereas in the five years of the Whitlam Government our indebtedness to overseas ownership was only $175m. I thank the honourable senator for his interjection and allowing me to get that information on the record. How did we overhaul our recreational requirements in Australia? The Whitlam Labor Government did it, firstly, by recognising the important part being played by voluntary organisations in providing recreational outlets for the Australian people; secondly, by providing capital grants for the construction of sporting community recreation and cultural facilities; thirdly, by assisting Australian sports men and women; fourthly, by stimulating an awareness of the benefits of individual fitness. So you see, gone were to be the days when voluntary workers financed sporting activities by the sale of chook raffle tickets and with other raffles throughout the hotels of this country. 
As I said, the Whitlam Government honoured all the promises it made. More importantly, it made funds readily available for the implementation of sporting and recreational schemes. In its last year of office it approved $ 1 .3m for sports assistance programs, $75,420 for physical recreation development program grants, $850,000 for the national fitness allocations, $150,000 for sports facilities at national fitness camps, $144,000 for lifesaving club allocations, and hundreds of thousands of dollars as capital assistance for leisure facility programs in the various States. Capital grants were also made for leisure facilities in area improvement program regions, making a total expenditure of $ 1 1 . 1 m. 
Now let us look at what happened when the Fraser Government came to power in 1975. What did it set about doing? The first thing it did was to abolish the Department of Tourism and Recreation and all funding was cancelled except where a firm commitment had been entered into and where funds had been previously appropriated. As a result of this drastic action thousands of sporting bodies were again left to their own resources. Had it not been for the financial assistance of some of the State governments, many of the sporting organisations would have faced financial disaster. One must realise that they were standing on their own resources in the first place with the sale of raffle tickets and lottery tickets. Then the Labor Government came to power and gave them worthwhile financial assistance. They adjusted their budgets accordingly but the Fraser Government, when it came to power, cancelled all this assistance and again left the sporting bodies to their own resources. It left many of them facing bankruptcy. In contrast to the $1 1.1m that was spent in this area by the Whitlam Labor Government in 1975, the Fraser Government's allocation in the 1978-79 Budget is less than $1.5m. We readily admit that the Life. Be In It. campaign has been a huge success. The National Fitness Bill 1979 had the full support of the Opposition when it was before this Senate last Thursday. The 'Life. Be In It.' campaign has been an outstanding success. But let us look at the Government's record in this very successful venture. The campaign was not an initiative of this Government; it was an initiative of the Victorian Government. In the first year of operation of the 'Life. Be In It.' campaign in Victoria the Federal Government gave the Victorian Government a subsidy of $60,000. 
Yes, the Hamer Government. Now, with a fanfare of trumpets the Government would have us believe that it is making a worthwhile contribution to the 'Life. Be In It. ' campaign and that it is only through the Federal Government's generosity that the campaign is able to continue. This is far from the truth. In the overall situation the Federal Government will give $600,000 per year for three years making a total of $ 1.8m for the 'Life. Be In It. ' campaign. 
Having related that story to the Senate, one finds it extremely difficult to speak any further about the achievement of this Government in regard to recreation and sport. The Government has commissioned a task force on co-ordination in welfare and health, the report of which has become known as the Bailey report. But we are still waiting for some action from the Government to implement the recommendations. The inactivity of the Government in this area has been so great that for the first time in the history of sport in this country that I can recall- I have been around the ridges in sport for over a quarter of a century now and I have discussed this with people with longer experience and they assure me that they have never seen this situation before- the administrations of major sporting bodies in Australia have become so fed up with the lack of interest displayed in them by the present Government that they have been forced to form themselves into an organisation known as the Confederation of Sporting Bodies. This is the first time this has happened in the history of Australia. It has been brought about by financial necessity. This body has been formed to lobby to endeavour to persuade this Government of the importance of giving strong financial assistance to sporting and recreational bodies, particularly in this period when, due to technological change and automation in industry we will be confronted with an ever-increasing amount of leisure time. There has been no planning and no provision made to meet the situation in the community. 
I return to the formation of the Confederation of Sporting Bodies. It represents 97 senior sporting bodies in this country with a membership of 5.7 million people. I come in contact with the representatives of these bodies regularly because we have similar problems to discuss.  Dr Alan  Aylett,  President  of the Victorian Football League, the VFL is concerned at the lack of Government response to aid for sport.  Sir Arthur  George represents soccer. He is a good supporter of the Government but he is the person most critical of it in this area. Kevin Humphries is the  President  of the Australian Rugby League.  Mr McLaughlin  is the  President  of the Australian Rubgy Union. All these people express to anybody who is prepared to listen to them their grave concern at the lack of interest and financial support that this Government is giving to sport in Australia. 
The Government will tell us that it has formed the Sports Advisory Council. True, it has done that but it has not achieved anything because the Government has not taken on board any of its recommendations. If it has taken them on board, it is taking a long while to implement any of them. So pitiful is the Government effort that one wonders what would be the state of affairs if it were not for such people as those involved with the Rothmans National Sport Foundation, insurance companies and other organisations and those who are propping up sport in this country. I shall mention one body that I know something about, the Rothmans National Sport Foundation. 
It has helped amateur sport to the extent of over $2m in the last 10 years. 
I will answer in a moment. This body has contributed over $500,000 in the last year. Amateur sport has to rely on this assistance because it cannot get the money anywhere else. Rothmans of Pall Mall (Aust) Ltd is only one of the cigarette companies propping up sport in this country, a job that correctly should be done by Federal authorities. I said earlier on this aspect- and I think it is worth repeating because I think it vividly describes the efforts of hundreds of thousands of people, of those who work in an honorary capacity to prop up sport in this country by running chook raffles and lotteries around the hotels- that there should be a monument to the chook in every city as a reminder of the lack of Government activity in this area. The Government must not shirk its responsibility to the youth of Australia. 
When I mentioned the Rothmans Sport Foundation I heard the interjection: 'Blood money'. It is a sad observation for any member on the Government side to make that sport is in such a parlous situation in this country, because it cannot get any Government assistance that it has to place itself in the position of being the recipient of over $5m annually from tobacco sponsorships. I say to  Senator Baume  that if it were not for the $5m sponsorships that major sport receives annually from tobacco companies in Australia half our sporting bodies would have to fold up. 
The Confederation of Sporting Bodies feels strongly about the outbursts and the crusades of some members of Parliament. I refer particularly to  Senator Baume.  I do not mean to be personally offensive in any way to him. He is the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. At the moment he is conducting a fiery crusade and trying to persuade Liberal branches throughout New South Wales and in other areas strongly to support the recommendations that have been brought down in the report of his Committee. For that I have no argument with him whatsoever. He believes that the recommendations are in the interests of the nation and, therefore, he is pursuing thenacceptance. 
Let us examine the realities of the situation. It is all right for  Senator Baume  while he is sipping a sherry at the University Club to be discussing with others around him that smoking and the taking of alcohol is injurious and dangerous to the health of people and to say that his Committee proposes to ban cigarette advertising and sponsorship and brewery sponsorship and advertising and if the people in the Federal Department of Health- these troglodites there- get their way they will close down cigarette factories and breweries. This is the line of argument that they are pursuing. They have worked themselves into a frenzy and this is their main objective. 
Let us examine the practicalities and realities of this situation. In a moment I shall give some statistics to show how impossible, futile and ridiculous it is to branch out on such a campaign. So concerned is the Confederation of Sporting Bodies in Australia, which represents a membership of 5.7 million and 97 of the major sporting bodies in this nation, that it has carried a unanimous resolution. The text of the resolution is that every sporting body should have its own discretion to accept whatever sponsorships are appropriate. The Confederation strongly opposes any restriction on the sponsorship of sport by the alcohol and tobacco industries. More so the Confederation believes that not only would the funds be irreplaceable but also that the expertise of the tobacco companies is invaluable, and no financial figure could be place on it. 
The Confederation is comprised of commonsense people, motivated by sports promotion. The decision the Confederation arrived at was taken on balance- how each sport would keep going, bearing in mind the assistance it could expect from the Government. The only way for sports to continue is by the further acceptance of sponsorship and advertising from tobacco companies and breweries. Anyone who knows anything about sport, no matter at what level, knows in his heart and soul today that no sporting body in Australia can continue to function without the sponsorships it receives today. A sporting body would be hungry and broke if it had to rely on the financial assistance it receives from any Government. I say quite sincerely and considerately to  Senator Baume  that I admire his dedication to what he is trying to achieve with regard to cigarette smoking and the drinking of alcohol, but I do not think it is practical or real for him, as a first step towards achieving the abolition of those things, to say that we must cut out advertising on sportsgrounds fences, on football jerseys or on competitors uniforms and that those companies should not be allowed to assist sporting bodies. 
Who is going to fill the vacuum if the decree is brought in that these companies can no longer sponsor sporting bodies or be allowed to advertise? The Government has taken the advertisments off television, but common sense has prevailed in allowing the advertisements to remain on sporting oval fences and on competitors jerseys. If  Senator Baume  's committee and the people who agree with him feel so strongly on this matter, why do not they enter into an education program to try to educate the people of the pitfalls if they continue to smoke and drink? Educate the people, otherwise  Senator Baume  and his supporters will make themselves look ridiculous. They are just stirring up a situation to which there can be no end. Whilst they carry pious resolutions and get the people to whom they are appealing to agree with them that smoking is harmful and drinking is harmful, the people will ask this: What are you going to do if you chop it out? What are you going to do to fill the vacuum left by ending it? That is the first thoughy that comes to sporting bodies. Man does not live by bread alone. What right do we have to tell the worker after a hard, laborious day's work, when he looks forward to having a couple of knock-off drinks with his mate in the local bar before he catches his train home, or at smoko, after working hard for two or three hours when he gets the 10 minutes smoko and has a cup of billy tea and rolls a cigerette, that he cannot have a drink or a smoke?  Senator Baume  's conscience tells him that these people should not be doing it, he should try to educate the people and let them make the decision. 
This Government is earning a reputation. It will not let people do many things. The Government will not let the youth of this country work on account of the financial policies it is pursuing. It has paralysed the community and now he is endeavouring to say to the adults: 'You cannot smoke and you cannot drink'. If one cannot work, smoke or drink, there is very little left worth living for. Study the practicalities of that side of the matter. I will assist the honourable senator in any campaign that he tries to promote which is an educational program showing the people what they should not be doing. However, any time that he advocates in this Chamber the cancelling of sponsorships to sporting bodies or the curtailing of advertising on sportsgrounds, et cetera, I will oppose him with every breath in my body until such time as he shows me how the Government can take the place of the sponsorships that these people are receiving. 
I have never heard a recommendation from his committee that the subsidy given to the tobacco growers in Australia should be discontinued. 
You have in your report? 
I will have to read it more closely. If it is there, I have not heard him expound it as eloquently as he has some of the other recommendations in the report. I am closely associated with people in politics who share the same view regarding tobacco as he does, but I never cease to marvel when I go round my own State or other States to see them being photographed proudly handing over the Department of Primary Industry's cheque to the tobacco growers of that area who happen to be their constituents. It has to be one thing or the other. Either one believes in the cause for which one is fighting and not have any part of it or one has to approach it in a commonsense way and adjust one's philosophies to the times. 
I have said that sporting bodies cannot exist without the tobacco or brewery industries assistance. That assistance is important. It is even more important today when we are confronted with more leisure time than we have been at any other time in our history. The amount of leisure time will increase, particularly with the unemployment level as it is today, with over half a million people out of work. Many of them are young people who want to engage actively in sport but who cannot continue any longer, if the area of sponsorship that exists today is under challenge. 
Let us come down to the practicalities of politics. 1 believe that  Senator Baume  is a very realistic politician. He is the Government Whip. It was mentioned recently in the Press that he was running for a position in the Ministry. I think he would do justice to the Ministry when he is elevated to that position. The honourable senator has a fiery crusade against cigarette smoking, tobacco companies and the breweries. But even if the branches support him in that crusade, what chance would he have of achieving his objective? We will now get down to the hard nuts and bolts of political reality. 
In 1978-79 excise duty on beer alone was $765m; on spirits it was $77m; on tobacco, cigars, cigarettes and cigarette papers it was $565m. Customs duties for 1978-79 on spirits, liqueurs and other spiritous beverages, plus excise on tobacco and cigarettes, the figures for which are not available for the year 1978-79, but based on the figures for 1977-78, will amount to $2 billion to flow into the federal coffers for the year. How can any member of any government genuinely and conscientiously stand in his place and advocate the abolition of industries with a consequent $2 billion loss in revenue? Even now, with that drain-off from the two industries, the deficit is running at over $2 billion. The balance of payments is in such a precarious position that it is likely that the deficit will be closer to $3 billion by the time of the next Budget. If the Government did not have this $2 billion to draw on it would be facing a deficit of $5 billion. Where is the common sense in that situation? I would suggest to the honourable senator that anyone attempting to legalise marihuana would have a chance to advocate that if it is legalised no excise should be placed on it. The honourable senator has enough common sense to know as well as I do that once an excise is put on anything and it becomes a tax gathered for the Treasury, it will never be removed and the substance from which it is gathered will never be removed. 
I say to the honourable senator that all he is doing with his crusade is stirring up a hornet's nest. With his medical training he is quite right in his personal intelligent observations that cigarette smoking and the drinking of alcohol may be injurious to our health, but he branches out on a campaign, as he is doing today, soliciting support from and exciting people whom I referred to a while ago as troglodytes in the Department of Health in this city, as a result of which they say they will not rest satisfied until they close down the cigarette factories and the breweries. What an outlandish statement for anybody to make. This is the sort of hysteria that is going on. The Government should branch out in an education program but should leave sponsorships and advertising alone until such time as it can come up with an alternative to replace the lack of funds if such action were taken. 
To summarise the figures I have just quoted nearly $2 billion will come into the Treasury's coffers this year. It might also be important to make one other comparison. I refer to the amount of finance that has been made available to the sporting and recreational bodies. The amount of excise derived from beer, spirits and tobacco in the last six years has increased by well over 50 per cent, to the extent that the Government is now getting $2 billion from excise on cigarettes and alcohol. 
Yet what are you giving back to sport? You are giving $7.4m this year, which includes a grant of over $2. 5m for the Commonwealth Games in Brisbane. The Government is giving $10m for the Commonwealth Games, spread over a period of five years. The assistance to sport has been reduced by 50 per cent yet excise has been increased on cigarettes and alcohol by 50 per cent. Why does the honourable senator not advocate that a great proportion of the finance derived from cigarettes and alcohol be given to sport? As I said earlier, man does not live on bread alone. The worker likes his drink when he finishes work and others enjoy a cigarette. Due to the financial policies of the Government there is no work for the young people. Because the Government is obsessed with inflation they are told that they cannot work today. We are being told that we cannot have a beer and we cannot have a cigarette. The community has been paralysed by the Government's financial policies. I would suggest that the honourable senator and his committee stop before they go too far, adopt a more realistic approach and embark on an education program showing people in this community what injuries can occur from smoking or drinking. But leave the sport of this country alone. 
From a practical, political situation the honourable senator is flying in the face of the opinion of 5.7 million sportsmen who have unanimously carried a resolution opposing the Government's interference in sponsorship or sporting advertising in this country. 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, refers to the Crawford report. Is the Minister aware that employment in the manufacturing sector is now 10 per cent, or some 130,000 workers, below its peak in 1974 and no higher than it was 14 years ago? Is the Minister also aware that the catch about revival through exports is that this approach runs head on into the approach of a host of countries all of which are trying to do the same thing? In the light of this, will the Minister tell the people of Australia how the Government expects these export developments to lift factory employment by more than a small fraction of the decline of 130,000 workers? 
Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate realise that much of the resurgence of inflation is due to the Government's own actions with regard to big increases in tobacco and alcohol duties and very big increases in petrol prices with more to come? Would not the cutting of sales taxes reduce the consumer price index? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs: Is it correct that the Industries Assistance Commission report on the domestic price of Australian sugar and related matters will be released at the end of this week? Is it also correct that the IAC has recommended that the domestic price of Australian sugar rise by $50 a tonne? Will the Minister assure the Parliament that the complete report will be published as soon as possible after it has been received by the Government? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It follows from a question asked by  Senator Baume  last week in respect of an article in the  Sun-Herald  on the way in which marihuana can be used and is currently used by children. Is it a fact that the question was prompted by  Mr Harrison,  the Editor of the  Daily Telegraph,  and gives the impression that the Editor was out to use the Senate to discredit an opposition newspaper and gain an advantage in the present circulation war? Will the Minister have the matter investigated and ask his colleague the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to take this into account when answering  Senator Baume  's question? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. In view of the increasing demand on Commonwealth Employment Service offices and the many public relations campaigns being conducted by all sections of the media on behalf of the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs, will the Government consider introducing a common CES office telephone number for all telephone areas outside the metropolitan area in each State? 
-I too would like to associate myself with the expressions of sympathy which have been made by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  and by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt).  Frank Stewart was a man of great moral and physical courage. In all issues, once he had arrived at a decision, he always remained resolute and firm. He never knew what it was to take a step backwards. He always stood his ground. In fact, as other honourable senators have pointed out, he was well credentialled as an outstanding rugby league player with the Canterbury-Bankstown Club. He played the game hard but clean. He never asked for any quarter and he certainly never gave any quarter. He came from a family that has made a most illustrious contribution to the political and sporting life of the community.  His  brother Kevin is the present Minister for Health in the New South Wales Government. Another brother, Jack, is the  Chairman  of Directors of the Cronulla Leagues Club. 
Frank Stewart had a most illustrious political career. It can be truthfully said that he has left a scratch on the mirror of time. He has been described as an old-style Labor man. I think I know what people mean when they use that term, but Frank Stewart had no time for those who wanted to put labels on members of the Australian Labor Party. He used to say: 'Why are they herded into pens like sheep and tags put on the pens?' Frank Stewart's philosophy and approach to the Labor Party was that one was not left, right or moderate, or bore some other tag or label- one was either a member of the great Australian Labor Party or one was not a member. I do not propose to repeat his achievements as a member of the Cabinet because that has already been done eloquently by my colleagues  Senator Wriedt, Senator Douglas  McClelland and  Senator Wheeldon.  But in conclusion I would like to say that Frank Stewart will always be remembered for his achievements. He will always be remembered as a true and loyal friend. To his wife, Maureen, and his family I express my deepest sympathy. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is the Minister aware that the Trade Practices Commission invalidated agreements in 1977 between the Queensland Rugby League, radio station 4IP and TVQ Channel 0 for exclusive commercial rights- the emphasis being on 'commercial '-for a five-year period because a period longer than one year would not be in the public interest? Will the Minister ask his colleague to examine the agreement between the Australian Cricket Board and Channel Nine television to ensure that it meets the requirements and guidelines of the Trade Practices Commission, and to assure members of the public that  Mr Kerry  Packer does not receive preferential treatment in television matters? 
-Is the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Home Affairs aware of the extensive public relations campaign being conducted by the Australian Mining Industry Council against the inclusion of areas in the Northern Territory, south-western Tasmania and Cape York Peninsula on the register of the National Estate? Is the Minister also aware of the contempt with which the Queensland Premier regarded the inclusion of the now departed Belle Vue Hotel on this register? With this background can the Minister assure the Senate that any objection against these registrations will be referred to an independent consultant in accordance with the Australian Heritage Commission Act and that if registration is again recommended section 30 of the Act will be enforced? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is the Minister aware that last year the Australian Broadcasting Commission refused an offer by Channel 7 enabling the ABC to have at no cost replays of international rugby league matches for screening to country areas beyond the reach of Channel 7? Can the Minister indicate to the Senate what the attitude of the ABC will be to a similar offer made by Channel 9 for replays of international cricket matches? Has the Government taken any steps that will ensure that country viewers receive these services? 
-Is the Minister for Science and the Environment aware that objections to the listing of Moreton Island in the register of the National Estate have been lodged by the CoordinatorGeneral 's Department on behalf of the Queensland Government, and also by the Mineral Sands Producers' Association? Can the Minister inform the Senate of the present position of the listing of this important national heritage, in view of its special natural and scenic qualities and its importance as a national park to the residents of Brisbane and surrounding areas? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Can the Minister indicate when the Department of Foreign Affairs will schedule a public meeting in Queensland similar to those already organised in Albury, New South Wales, and Bunbury, Western Australia, to discuss foreign affairs issues? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I am prompted to ask this question about airports in view of his spontaneous and fulsome answer to  Senator Baume.  Is the Minister aware that airport safety standards, as laid down by the International Civil Aviation Organisation, exist at only two of the six international airports in Australia, namely, Sydney and Melbourne? 
It is not a Dorothy Dixer. It might be a bit foxy, though. In view of the expected increase in the number of air travellers in the foreseeable future, what steps has the Government taken to update and improve standards at the other international airports throughout Australia? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate, who is deputising for the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs: Has his attention been drawn to a recent article in the  Australian  concerning the funds unspent by the National Training Council so far this financial year? In view of the comment in the article that there seems to be a lack of public awareness about the funds and the Training Council, will the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs consider requesting his Department to make a determined effort to ensure that employers are acquainted with the Council and its assistance programs? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the announcement on 30 May of an agreement between the Australian Cricket Board and PBL Sports. Is the Minister aware that PBL Sports is a wholly owned subsidiary of Publishing and Broadcasting Ltd of which the Channel 9 network is part and whose  chairman  and managing director is  Mr Kerry  Packer? Does this agreement and earlier ones between the Board and PBL Sports have these effects: to give Packer Channel 9 exclusive rights to televise cricket for the next three years; and to give  Mr Packer  rights to promote cricket for the next 10 years? In view of these decisions what action has the Government taken to protect the public interest, as it could be construed that this agreement is a device to circumvent the Trade Practices Act? In future will other television stations be able to tender for rights to televise cricket in the knowledge that their bids will be fairly considered? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs whether he is aware that staff in the Postal and Telecommunications Department in Brisbane have again been forced to take industrial action because of the increased work load involved in the licensing and policing of citizen band radios and the failure of the Public Service Board to lift the staff ceilings in the Department, which have resulted in most newly created positions not being filled. Will the Minister investigate the situation and take whatever action is necessary to overcome the problems created by politically imposed harsh and arbitrary staff ceilings? 
The Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill 1 979 is unacceptable to the Opposition. As outlined by my colleagues,  Senator Button  and  Senator Evans,  the Opposition rejects the Bill. We will be opposing the motion for the second reading of the Bill, and we will be opposing it at the Committee stage. 
The Opposition will also move several amendments at that stage. There is no doubt that the Bill is drafted to give the appearance of a reasonable and rational approach to unemployment problems caused by improved work methods, technological changes and the Government's desire to reduce staff levels. But on examination what do we find? There are a number of unsatisfactory features in the Bill. There is a looseness in the drafting and a vagueness about the substantial changes that are proposed. The Administrative and Clerical Officers Association and the other major Public Service unions are opposed to the legislation in its present form. They are demanding that it be withdrawn and redrafted. This is the case with the Opposition also. The Bill originated from a good idea. There is no doubt that it was a good idea, but to me what seems tragic in the circumstances is that the Government has fouled up that good idea. 
In 1976 the Government introduced a similar Bill and withdrew it because it allowed for redeployment and redundancies without appeal and it gave enormous scope for discrimination against individuals. That was the reason the Government withdrew the 1 976 legislation. Anybody who has taken time off to read the Bill knows that it is a scant improvement on its predecessor. I have always placed great value on a strong, independent and efficient Public Service. Of all our institutions, there is not one of which I have felt prouder than the Australian Public Service. Honourable senators opposite might ask why has that been the case. The reason is that it was decided some 78 years ago at Federation that if the country was to be well served officials should be chosen by an independent body and selected and promoted by merit. 
I remind the Senate that one of the most extensive investigations of the functioning of the Australian Public Service was carried out by the Royal Commission on Australian Government 
Administration chaired by  Dr Coombs.  That inquiry recommended a wide range of valuable, practical and beneficial measures. It recommended equal opportunity or equality within the Service. If I remember correctly, it proposed equal opportunity liaison officers in departments and statutory authorities. It proposed measures to improve efficiency and job satisfaction within the Australian Public Service. But what do we find? We find that the Government has taken no action. It has ignored the report. 

 -If Senator Martin has read the Commission's report she would know that. The Government failed to respond to any of the recommendations. Instead it chose to embark upon on a program of confrontation, conflict and provocation. It seemed to me to be hell-bent on destroying respect within and undermining the morale of the Public Service. It sought to undermine the rights of members of the Public Service. 
Let us examine the record. The Government adopts the attitude of legislation by reprisal. The Senate will remember the introduction during 1977 of the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Bill and the great sense of urgency that surrounded it. Yet what do we find today? The Bill has not even been proclaimed. The Senate will recall what happened last year when the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  was endeavouring to resolve an air traffic controllers dispute. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  endeavoured to inflame and aggravate the situation. Honourable senators will recall the threats of the Prime Minister to bring in overseas strike breakers. 
I am referring to copious notes. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. By way of preface, I remind him of a question that I asked on 2 May 1979 regarding the Channel Nine television network agreement with the Australian Cricket Board of Control, which I asked the Minister to examine. On 25 June, the Minister replied:   . . The Commision is an independent statutory body responsible Tor administering and enforcing the Trade Practices Act. It is the Commission 's responsibility to determine what action, if any, should be taken. 
He added that he felt that it would be inappropriate for him to comment on the issues that had been raised. I ask: Is it a fact that, on 15 September 1978, the Minister gave directions pursuant to section 29 ( 1 ) of the Trade Practices Act instructing that the Commission's application for an injunction against the Banana Growers' Federation be stood over? Is it also a fact that the Minister took similar action, under section 29 ( 1 ), in the newsagents ' case? Consequently, I ask the Minister again whether he will examine the agreement by referring it to the Trade Practices Consultative Committee, which he established on 28 June 1978 to advise him on matters such as the one in question? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, relates to that asked by  Senator Wriedt  and the figures my leader quoted concerning the staggering increase in taxation revenue under this Government. Does the Minister accept  Senator Wriedt  's figures as indicating that that represents an increase of 120 per cent in tax collections? The Minister engaged in percentage comparisons but I think that he was being a bit foxy in attempting to hide the figures quoted by  Senator Wriedt.  Whilst the Minister was giving his answer I made a quick calculation - 
I present the following petition from 28 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President,  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That due to technological change which has brought about large scale unemployment, we call upon the Government to introduce early optional retirement at age 60 with full pension benefits. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the senate in parliament assembled should as a matter of urgency introduce early optional retirement at age 60 with full pension entitlements to relieve the large scale unemployment in Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 4 1 6 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That further cutbacks in Commonwealth funding to State Schools and transferral of funds to wealthy independent schools as required under the guidelines to the Schools Commission announced by the Minister for Education in early June are of vital concern in that they mitigate against the interests of the great majority of Australian Children in State Schools. 
That Queensland State Schools have not reached the Resource Usage Targets set by the Schools Commission, and even at those financial levels will fall well short of actual provision standards envisaged by the Commission. 
That Queensland 's effort in respect of Capital works is particularly of concern being less than half the per capita effort of other States. 
Your petitioners therefore call on their legislators to ensure: 
That Federal funding to State Schools is restored to at least 1974-75 levels: 
the independence of the Schools Commission to recommend the allocation of funds to schools on the basis of need, unhindered by Government directive: and 
that sufficient funds are provided to Queensland, appropriately tied, to ensure achievement of national standards in this State. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-As a member of the Standing Orders Committee, I support the proposition on the basis that the Estimates committees if they are dissatisfied with the adequacy of the information that has been given to them, they have sufficient powers to say: 'It is unsatisfactory and we will not complete the discussion of that particular item until the information is made available and given to us by an officer of standing who is acceptable to the Committee'. 1 support the Committee's report that the item be noted and carefully watched in the future. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, follows that asked by  Senator Hamer,  in which both the honourable senator and the Leader of the Government highlighted the fact that the accrued revenue which would flow from the petrol tax would allow the deficit to be considerably reduced and would place Government finances in a very healthy position. Is the Minister aware that for a single income family the first $3,893 only is tax-free, whereas the first $7,786 is tax-free where husband and wife work? Does the Leader of the Government agree with the Treasurer's recent admission in Brisbane that single income families were disadvantaged in the Budget? If so, will he urge the Government to take immediate steps to correct this injustice by increasing the tax rebate for a dependent spouse? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs whether he is aware of the grave situation that has arisen in the western areas of Queensland as a result of a sweetheart agreement between oil companies to market to the west at their convenience only. Is he also aware that the sinister plan is that where a town has three outlets, the idea is to starve out two and flood the third? Is the Minister aware that responsible and experienced commercial people in the west are claiming that shortages of supplies of distillate and avgas are also being artificially induced? Finally, will the Minister use his good offices to have the matter urgently and thoroughly investigated so as to inform the people in the west of Queensland just what is going on and put a stop to the near panic situation that exists in the area at the moment? 
I present the following petition from 355 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors respectfully showeth: 
That the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Act 1977 should immediately be repealed because: lt provides unfettered power to Ministers to suspend, stand-down and dismiss Commonwealth Government employees and places them in a markedly disadvantageous position as compared with all other Australian workers. 
Its use places Commonwealth Government employees in direct conflict with the Government as it circumvents the arbitration tribunals and denies appeal rights. 
Its use will exacerbate industrial disputes and inflame industrial relations in the Commonwealth area of employment. 
The International Labour Organisation has condemned the Provisions of the Act as being incompatible with the rights of organised labour in a free society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 883 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors respectfully showeth: 
That the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Act 1977 should immediately be repealed because: 
It provides unfettered power to Ministers to suspend, stand-down and dismiss Commonwealth Government employees and places them in a markedly disadvantageous position as compared with all other Australian workers. 
Its use places Commonwealth Government employees in direct conflict with the Government as it circumvents the arbitration tribunals and denies appeal rights. 
Its use will exacerbate industrial disputes and inflame industrial relations in the Commonwealth area of employment. 
The International Labour Organisation has condemned the Provisions of the Act as being incompatible with the rights of organised labour in a free society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. By way of preface, I remind the Minister that some weeks ago I asked him whether he would refer to the Trade Practices Consultative Committee, a Committee that advises him on the Trade Practices Act, the question of the Channel 9 network being granted exclusive rights for three years to televise cricket. As the Australian Broadcasting Commission has announced that it will request the Trade Practices Commission to investigate the matter, can the Minister give me some idea as to when I can expect an answer to my question as to whether he intends to intervene in this matter, as he did in the Banana Growers Federation case and the newsagents case? The matter is of extreme importance to people in country areas who are being denied by this Government the right to see replays of major sporting events because exclusive rights have been given to commercial stations whose beams do not reach their area. 

 - Mr President, in recent years we have witnessed from our political opponents the development of a new cult in political propaganda which seems to consist of turning the truth upside down as often as possible until it becomes unrecognisable as fact. The greatest exponent of this new political science- we could call it Carrickism is the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Carrick.  It is to his credit that on any given day when he is asked a question or makes a contribution to any debate, he will always return to the dark ages of the Whitlam era and he will try to upturn the truth so that, as I said previously, it becomes unrecognisable as a fact. 
Do I need to remind honourable senators opposite of what happened in the period between May 1975 and October 1975? The Leader of the Government in the Senate seems to relish taking us back to those years. I accept that challenge today and go back to 1975. 1 remind him of some of the extravagant claims he made. He was supported by  Senator Peter  Baume. Both gentlemen, through chosen ignorance, asked some of the most preposterous questions when the Supply Bills, the Appropriation Bills and the Loan Bills were before this chamber. It was a chosen ignorance and it put them to shame. It did not enhance their prestige in this chamber. The claims they made were elementary, and any first year accountancy student would know about them. I can vividly recall  Senator Peter  Baume, supported by  Senator Carrick,  who is now the Leader of the Government, when we were discussing the Appropriation Bills, asking why Appropriation Bills Nos 1 and 2 did not show the increased postal charges and the increased telephone charges. It had to be pointed out to those two honourable senators that under the financial regulations of the Audit Act those charges are not entitled to be in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) and Appropriation Bill (No. 2) but are more correctly in Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and Appropriation Bill (No. 4). 
The greatest episode in their epic story was when they asked 12 questions about why the Loan Bill was before the Parliament. They conveniently forgot that the Loan Bill provides revenue for defence expenditure when the consolidated revenue fund is unable to meet that expenditure. They highlighted the fact that $ 1,502m was required and tried, by marked innuendo, to say that we were rigging the books and were not carrying out the financial transactions of the Government as we should. The worst episode of their epic story was when they dealt with the $4,000m that this Government was endeavouring to borrow from overseas. Why were we endeavouring to borrow that money? I think that the electorate of Australia should be reminded again why we were endeavouring to borrow it. We were endeavouring to borrow the money to finance our mineral and resource development. I think that Government senators should give us full credit, even if they regard it as being old fashioned today, for working on the principle that there was still great merit in buying back the farm and using overseas technology to develop our great resources. That was one of the specific reasons we wanted the money on that occasion. What was the reaction at that time of Opposition senators who are now in Government? It might be appropriate to quote to you what the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had to say at that time.  Mr Fraser,  who was being reliably reported in the  Hansard,  is on the record as having said in regard to the $4,000m proposed loan that the Labor Government was putting Australia in hock to overseas interest. He went on to say: 
So why did he - 
That is  Mr Whitlam-   . . want to strengthen the external financial position by the borrowing of $4,000m? Is it to deal with current and immediately foreseeable unemployment? 
He continued: 
The Prime Minister - 
He was referring to  Mr Whitlam-   , . knows that there is an easier way of doing that without getting into hock with Middle East countries. 
The Prime Minister also had this to say: 
Why was the impact of the funds on the Australian economy utterly ignored? It would have increased the national debt by $1,000 for the average Australian family. The amount approached the total income of all companies in Australia. 
Still talking to the proposed overseas borrowings from Arab countries by the Whitlam Labor Government,  Mr Fraser  said: 
It exceeds the value of all wool, wheat and sugar produced in Australia last year. It is almost as much as total government spending on welfare. No comparable loan had ever been raised. At one stroke it would have increased Australia's overseas debt three-fold. Yet the Government claims to be responsible. 
They are the words of the present Prime Minister of Australia when the Labor Government was seeking to raise $4,000m. How much money did we raise? In the period we were in office we raised only $434m from overseas sources. At the time we were criticised but we must have had plenty of foresight in going to the Arab countries and trying to arrange petro-dollar loans. That is where our petrol supplies come from. We must have shown great foresight because I read in the newspaper recently that  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Anthony  were recently in the Middle East trying to negotiate direct oil supplies on a government to government basis with the Arab countries. Not only were they arranging for these supplies when they were over there but also they were arranging loans from the Arab countries to develop our mineral resources. That is exactly the same thing that we did in 1972 and 1973 when  Senator Carrick,  the leader of the band opposite in those days, backed up by his pigmy lieutenant,  Senator Baume,  were howling and roaring that we were handing over to the Arab countries, that we would have to make political statements, that we would have to take a political position against the Israelis. What rot!  Mr Anthony  and  Mr Fraser  are doing the same thing today. 
The only difference between what we were attempting to do when we were borrowing $4,000m and what the present Government is doing today, is that we had come clean. We said what we were going to do with the $4,000m, yet we were roundly condemned. We borrowed only $434m from overseas sources. Let us look at the track record of the present Government in overseas borrowings. It does not care whether they come from Arab countries or anywhere else as long as it can get the money. A table I have on the Government's Budget financing transactions from 1968-69 to 1978-79 shows that in 1968-69 the total net overseas borrowings amounted to $142m; in 1969-70 there were none. That was the period of a Liberal-Country Party government. In 1970-71 under a Liberal-Country Party government, there were minimal borrowings. In 1971- 72 the borrowings were again minimal. In 1972- 73 under a Labor Government, the borrowings were minimal. In 1973-74, the same situation prevailed. In 1974-75 with a Labor Government, overseas borrowings amounted to $2m. In 1975-76 they were $126m. In 1976-77, an amount of $357m was borrowed. In 1977-78 overseas borrowings amounted to $1,6 12m and in 1978-79 they were $ 1,502m, making the borrowings of this Government in the last four years over $5 billion compared with $434m borrowed by the Labor Government. I pose the question to Government senators sitting over there smugly - 
They are sitting there smugly and in silence. I pose this question: Who is putting Australia in hock? Is it the Labor Government that borrowed $434m against our overseas reserves or this Government that has borrowed in four years over $5 billion? There is a marked difference for the reasons why there were any borrowings in the first place. As I previously pointed out, the Australian Government endeavoured to borrow $4,000m for mineral and resource development and introduced the latest technology into this country to assist in their development. But I challenge the Leader of the Government in the Senate and the  speaker  who will follow him to deny that the Government is borrowing money overseas today to prop up the Australian dollar. In 1976 the dollar was devalued by 17.6 per cent. The only reason that this Government is not forced into another devaluation today is because it is borrowing against our overseas reserves. We are on the brink of bankruptcy. It is of no use honourable senators opposite laughing. They should talk to someone who knows something about the economic position of this country, not to some suburban accountant from South Australia. They should speak to the Treasury officials and to economists who know what is happening in this country. I am ashamed, sad and sorry to have to make it public knowledge that if we do not do something about the ratio of the overseas borrowings of this Government to our overseas reserves we will shortly be on the brink of disaster and of bankruptcy. Otherwise, if the Government is to stop borrowing, it will have to give serious consideration to devaluing the dollar. 
The Government is seeking money to prop up its deficit. The Labor Government sought money to carry out mineral and resource development in this country. The $4,000m that we were going to borrow was to come from Arab countries, which is exactly where this Government is getting its money today- the Arab bank, the Kuwait bank and anywhere else it can get it. It does not care. It will take oil and it will talk to anybody as long as it can get money to prop up its deficit. At least we were honest. We said that $60,000m excess money was floating around in the form of petro-dollars from the Arab countries and that if we could get $4,000m of that money we could develop our mineral and other resources. The money was to be drawn through the Moscow Narodny Bank, was to be deposited in New York and was to remain there and be drawn on, which is contrary to what  Senator Carrick,  the Leader of the Government in the Senate said.  (Quorum formed).  In conclusion let me say that the challenge is fairly and squarely at the Government's feet. I hate to have to expose publicly the financial position of this country, but if something is not done about it shortly we will be in a diabolical situation. It is up to the Government to rein in its overseas borrowings, to do something practical and to introduce a decent and worthwhile economic policy. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I would like to address a question to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  who is responsible for the Loan Bill. I remind the Minister that the Loan Bill which is being debated in the chamber is a machinery measure which provides for loan funds to be raised specifically to meet defence expenditure because there are insufficient funds in Consolidated Revenue. The amount sought is $ 1,604m. The Minister in his second reading address said that this is a machinery measure designed for the purposes I have just expressed. I ask the Minister: In 1975, when the Loan Bill which sought to appropriate an amount of $ 1 ,502m was introduced into the Parliament correctly in accordance with finance regulations prescribed by the Audit Act in order to make funds available for defence expenditure because there were insufficient funds in Consolidated Revenue that year and was before the Senate, why did he and the other holders of ministerial rank today say that the legislation was a ploy and was an attempt by the Whitlam Labor Government to jack up the deficit with which it would be confronted? The then Opposition asked a series of questions- some 14 in all - which filled three pages of the Senate  Hansard.  I am not trying to be funny or to score a point. 
Over a period of years I have had some respect for the Leader of the Government in the Senate, but in this instance I am very mindful of what he said in this chamber in 1975, supported by  Senator Baume.  This evening, because positions have changed, he is trying to tell us that this is a machinery measure introduced simply to provide funds. I would like the Minister to explain to me what is the difference, other than in the amount appropriated, between the Loan Bill of 1 975 and the legislation which is before us this evening. I am particularly interested in this. I have had the honour of being  Chairman  of the nation's Joint Committee of Public Accounts. Even if I appear vain, I feel I know something of the procedures under which the Parliament is financed. In 1 975 I was horrified and astounded to hear  Senator Carrick  in particular take the stand he did and make all sorts of innuendoes to the effect that the then Whitlam Labor Government was rigging the books. If the provisions of the Bills introduced in 1975 and 1979 are the same, will the Minister admit to the Senate that the preposterous stand that he adopted in 1975 was one of chosen ignorance and was designed not to seek genuine information but to enable him to engage in innuendo to embarrass the government of the day? 
I would like to ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick).  Earlier I heard him say that the deficit was $2, 1 39 m and that the shortage in the Consolidated Revenue Fund was $ 1,604m but that to play safe the Government was asking for the provision under this Bill of $ 1,800m. On this occasion we are exploring this matter just as did  Senator Carrick  and his henchmen in 1975. 1 am interested to know how the difference of $196 m bet ween the shortage of $ 1,604m in the Consolidated Revenue Fund and the amount of $ 1,800m being appropriated under this Bill is to be accounted for. Someone commented to me the other day that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  had had a bad month:  His  new planes were falling out of the sky, his submarines would not submerge, the radar and the Skyhawks had tumbled off the  Melbourne,  his race horses could not win and the lizards he backed at Cunnamulla had got the message from the Government and were running around in circles. I ask  Senator Carrick  whether the $ 196m difference referred to in order to play safe, as compared with the actual shortage in the Consolidated Revenue Fund is designed to cover these misadventures of the Minister for Defence? 
The Government has to borrow $ 1,800m on the advice that the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has given this chamber to furnish accommodation for the Loan Bills to make up an inadequacy in the Consolidated Revenue Fund. I ask the Minister Where does the Government propose to raise this money and at what interest rate will it be raised? I am prompted to ask that question on the Loan Bill, which I know is a little irregular and not what normally would be asked during the discussion of a Loan Bill, as I was reminded of the sanctimonious attitude of the Government in 1975 when the Whitlam Government proposed to raise petrodollars from the Arab countries. We heard all sorts of accusations such as: 'Fancy getting money from the Arabs. You will have to make a political statement and declare where you stand on the Arab- Israeli question'. That was absolute rot because the money was to come through the Moscow Narodny Bank, be deposited in the United States of America and to come into this country by way of equipment. 
I mention that because I am absolutely astounded to find out the avenues where the present Government is raising its $5,000m of overseas borrowing. The Government says that it does not know where it will come from. But it must be aware of that. Papers such as the  Wall Street Journal, Barrons.  the  Economist,  the  Financial Times  and so on have stated who are the lenders and the sub-lenders. Let us look at some of the areas where the money has been raised. It has been raised at the Banque Arabe et Internationale et Investissement the Kuwait International Investment Company, the Arab Financial Consultants Company, the Saudi International Bank, and so the list goes on. So much for the sanctimonious Fraser Government which was concerned with where the funds of the Labor Government were coming from. I am concerned with where this money will be raised. I am not only concerned with the avenues from which it will be raised but also concerned with the rate of interest that will be paid. 
In the days of the Whitlam Labor Government money was raised on paper money value rates at between 5 per cent and 9 per cent. But this Government is on record as having paid as high as 20 per cent for some of its loans. I would like the Minister to assure me as to where this money will come from. Will it come from the Arab states that this Government so roundly condemned the Whitlam Government for considering? What will the interest rate be? 
I would not suggest that. I do think that Ministers of the Crown are honourable people, irrespective of their political persuasion. I do not subscribe to the accusations of corruption that were levelled at the Labor  Ministers  when we were in government. I did not accept it then and I am not prepared to accept it now as criticism of the people who sit opposite as Ministers. But one cannot criticise one crowd of people for taking certain action and adopting a sanctimonious attitude and then find oneself in the self-same position and endeavour to justify it. 
-Is the Minister for Science and the Environment aware that the proposed second section of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park lies between Lizard Island and Innisfail? Is the Minister also aware that the only known breeding areas of black martin are in this region? In the light of this, I ask the Minister: Has the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority been consulted by the Department of Primary Industry concerning the conservation of the black martin in the Great Barrier Reef region? 
Does the Government propose to accept the recommendations of the 1978 report of the Australian Fisheries Council which stated that under no circumstances should foreign participation in already developed fisheries be considered, including fish of the Great Barrier Reef? 

 - Mr President, I am pleased that you have seen me. I have been waiting patiently while Government senators have been getting the call twice. 

 - Senator MacGibbon has been called twice. The honourable senator cannot add up. I make no reflection on you,  Sir. It  is merely a statement of fact; but, as usual,  Senator Baume  cannot add up. He needs a lesson in arithmetic. I ask the Minister representing the Minister for National Development: Is he aware that recently the Queensland Government decided to investigate the possibility of producing avgas at the Maranoa oil refinery at Roma? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether his Department was invited to buy the refinery recently when it was up for sale? Secondly, is the Minister aware of the fact that the major reason that the refinery has not been producing avgas is that samples had to be flown to Melbourne for testing at either government establishments or those owned by other oil companies, and that neither group of establishments has the reputation of being particularly obliging to the refinery? In view of the current critical avgas shortage, will the Minister consider providing financial assistance to the refinery's owners in order to enable them to purchase the necessary equipment continually to test and rate avgas in Roma, and not have to send it to Melbourne? 
I ask the Minister for Science and the Environment: Is it a fact that under the proposed restrictions Japanese longline fishermen will be able to fish up to 30 kilometres inside the Great Barrier Reef region, as defined by the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act, in the waters between Innisfail and Lizard Island? 
-I listened with great interest to  Senator Missen.  I am prepared to congratulate him on his studious and intelligent examination of the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill 1979 which the Senate is discussing. He addressed himself to it so fairly that I was going to commend a reading of his speech to his colleagues so that they may be enlightened by his remarks. The only regret I have is that in the closing stages he said that although he disagreed with the Bill he would vote for it. He reminded me of the story of a man who did not have a foot in three camps, only because he had only two legs. That was unfortunate because it was an excellent speech. It was a very good survey of the Bill before the Senate. I am at a loss to understand how a man could so passionately voice his opposition to a Bill and then, in the last sentence, say that nevertheless he will vote for it. 
I feel that what this Government is really trying to tell this Parliament and the people of Australia, in a simple sentence, is that if the Industrial Court does not act in accordance with the wishes of the Government, the Government will ringbark it. No matter which way one looks at the Bill, that is the realisation that comes out of it. Never before have I heard such inflammatory remarks about industrial legislation. I repeat that the attitude of this Government has been clearly disclosed. If the Industrial Court does not act in accordance with its wishes, the Government will have no hesitation in ringbarking it. As pointed out by my colleague,  Senator Bishop,  who led for the Opposition in the debate on the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill, the Opposition is totally opposed to the Bill. It will not have a bar of it at any price. As was eloquently pointed out by  Senator Bishop,  the legislation is provocative. It is vicious, anti-worker and anti-union.  Senator Bishop  pointed out to Government senators their misgivings and the collision course on which the Government is embarking, as well as the excesses in which the Government is indulging in wanting confrontation with the trade union movement. 
I ask the Senate: Who else is more competent and better qualified to press the alarm button on a Bill of this sort than  Senator Bishop?  He is a man who, throughout his adult life, has been associated with the trade union movement, including the Australian Railways Union. For a considerable period he was on the Australian Council of Trade Unions. By comparison, we on this side cannot accept the opinions of Government senators who overnight or in the last two minutes have become experts on conciliation and arbitration matters. On the other hand, we have had the experience of  Senator Bishop,  a veteran in industrial relations and a man of wide experience, offering to this chamber the benefit of a lifetime experience in the industrial movement. He made a plea to the Government to pull back before it is too late; but I predict that as surely as night follows day his plea will be ignored by the Government.  His  plea will go unheeded. . 
Honourable senators may ask me: 'Why are you so sure that his plea will go unheeded? The reason is that the Government has followed a policy of confrontation for the past few years. It has engaged in legislation by reprisal as far as the trade union movement is concerned. Then honourable senators may ask: 'Why do you say this? Why do you claim this?' The reason is that if one examines the track record of this Government in industrial relations one will find that in 1977 an amendment was made to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act or, as it is better known, the Industrial Relations Bureau legislation or, as some people describe it, the panzer division of the Government in industrial matters. That amending Bill provided for the deregistration of unions, the seizing of union funds and property, fines on officers and rank and file trade unionists, suspension from office of union officers, and the debarring of members of trade unions from elevation or election to full time or part time office in their union. 
Need I remind Government senators of the amendment to section 45D of the Trade Practices Act, which was introduced into the Parliament at about this time last year. What did that amendment to the Trade Practices Act provide? It provided that a union could be fined an amount of $250,000- a quarter of a million dollars- if it was found to be engaging in so-called secondary boycotts. We know of the turmoil and the inflammatory situation that was brought about by the introduction of the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Act. It provided that people could be stood down, sacked or retired from employment if they did not act or perform as their employers expected. But the most disgraceful element in that Bill was that employees could be declared redundant because, through the introduction of technology, there were no positions for them. There was no real right of appeal against early retirement. I will not weary the Senate by recapitulating all the provisions of that Bill because the very intensive debate we had on it less than three months ago must be in our memories. I am very proud to stand here this evening and inform the Senate that Bill Hayden, as Leader of the next Labor Government, has promised the repeal of all these measures. I am happy that he has publicly announced that and declared what the Australian Labor Party has promised to do when it becomes the next government of this country, because that is the only decent and right thing to do. 
On another front, the national Government tries to give the impression that it wants to keep the excesses of the Western Australian Government and the Queensland Government at arm 's length in respect to the right of assembly disputes in Western Australia and the essential services legislation in Queensland. However, I will lay at the feet of the Government this evening the claim that every action it has taken shows quite conclusively that this Government condones the actions of the Western Australian and Queensland governments in their repressive legislation. This legislation we are discussing this evening is just as much a part of the same pattern of attack against the trade union movement as the pieces of legislation in Western Australia and Queensland. What is more, as I have previously pointed out, the Government has followed this approach for the past two years. Let us look briefly at how the Queensland legislation fits into the situation that exists in Canberra today. The Queensland essential services legislation provides for the imposition of massive fines, the deregistration of unions, the encouragement of scab labour against unions, and the sacking of employees who go on strike. In other cases it forces people to work in so-called essential industries, and it prohibits employer-employee agreements based upon negotiation and conciliation. 
It also allows union property to be sold off for payments of fines imposed under this legislation. Already in Queensland one employer organisation has roundly condemned the Bill, and I refer to the Queensland Motor Industry Associated Ltd, a registered union of employers under the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act and a registered body corporate under the Companies Act. That employer association had this to say about the essential services legislation- in Queensland: 
On the overall situation if the Bill in its present form becomes law the Association see it creating more problems than it was designed to solve and it could lead to industrial relations situations that could be avoided. 
The statement continues: 
The 'essential service' definition is far too broad and is very open for interpretation. 
The entering of private premises, on the authorisation of the Minister, in times of emergency, is far too loose a power. 
There is a combination of Federal and State Awards in many essential services and this dual area of cover would present real problems of implementation of such legislation. 
The time limit for conciliation proceedings before the Commission is too inflexible. 
The right to claim damages against Unions is unclear and could be read to cover class actions by the whole community and not just the areas and bodies in disputation. 
The method of strict control and recording of 'responsible persons' who Unions of Employees now refer to as 'strike breakers' could cause greater ill feeling than needed when the dispute was settled. 
As mentioned above the loss of such accumulated benefits as long service leave, annual leave, and even superannuation are unrealistic penalties on individual employees. 
The recovery of property through the courts structure to pay fines placed on individuals is unacceptable. 
The Association does not agree with the principle of the introduction of an Act that can overrule the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
I thank the Senate for its indulgence in allowing me the time to read into  Hansard  those 10 opinions expressed in a position paper by an employers' association in Queensland in response to the essential services legislation in that State. It is important to have those opinions recorded in Hansard and to tell Government senators about them. We on this side of the chamber know that, despite the window dressing of honourable senators opposite in saying that they want to keep the Western Australian and Queensland legislation at arms length, they absolutely condone their provisions. That is evidenced by the measures that are contained in the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill that we are discussing this evening. 
We have heard similar statements expressed over and over again by senators on this side of the chamber, men who are experienced in industrial relations. We have heard also the opinions of the Australian Democrats expressed by their leader  Senator Don  Chipp. We know of the grave concern that we all share regarding the observations made by  Sir Richard  Kirby on the provisions of the Bill. Surely, when a man of his experience, standing and industrial knowledge goes on the public record and so strongly criticises the provisions of the Bill, any responsible Government or group of people would sit up and take notice. If the criticisms of  Sir Richard  Kirby were not enough we also have the statements from  Mr Justice  Staples, a man whose remarks have been quoted by honourable senators who have spoken before me. The opinions of  Mr Justice  Staples have been soundly and roundly supported. He is a man of great industrial experience. 
Of course, we witnessed the gutter-snipe tactics of some honourable senators opposite. They said that  Mr Justice  Staples used to be a member of the Communist Party. Do we ever say anything about the decision on income tax law by the Chief Justice of Australia,  Sir Garfield  Barwick? Do we condemn his decisions because he was a Liberal? Do we condemn the decisions of  Sir Nigel  Bowen or any of the other former Liberal parliamentarians who have been elevated to the High Court? Do we ever hear people on this side of the chamber condemn the decisions of those people on the grounds of their poltical persuasions? No, never! All that petty criticism comes from honourable senators on the other side. They say that  Mr Justice  Staples was a communist. I want to say to the Government Whip,  Senator Peter  Baume, who is sitting smugly on the other side of the chamber, that anybody who was not a mad radical at university by the time he was 23 years old would be an ultra conservative by the time he was 40 years old. I am waiting for a bit of a change in the honourable senator. 
It does not matter whether it is original. If it is good it is worth repeating. 
It is kosher as far as I am concerned. Does the honourable senator understand me now? Not only did  Sir Richard  Kirby have things to say; he was supported by  Mr Justice  Staples. Now we find that the 25 industrial commissioners share the same view. Surely it cannot be said that they were all appointed by the Australian Labor Party. Some 20 of the 25 commissioners were appointed by Liberal-National Country Party governments. 
As if outbursts from  Sir Richard  Kirby and  Mr Justice  Staples are not enough, we have had the public denouncement by the 25 commissioners. Now the  president  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has taken a stand. The matter was so important that the Minister for Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  had a meeting with him last evening, the real details of which seem still surrounded in mystery. This discussion of industrial law is unprecedented in our history. The discussion has involved a former  President  of the Court, a justice and 25 commissioners. The climax has come with  Sir John  Moore's saying that he can see the dangers in the legislation and is trying to talk the Government into pulling back and further considering the Bill. 
I have with me a document which I have had for some time. It was sent to me from Geneva some years ago by a top trade union official who was representing Australia at the International Labour Organisation. I have kept the document. I read it three or four times a year to keep me abreast of what justice is required for freedom of association not only in trade unions but also in employer organisations. I have never quoted it before because I have not thought that any situation has ever arisen in any industrial debate to warrant such a lofty resolution being read into  Hansard.  But now, with this unprecedented situation in the country where a former  President  of the Court, a justice, 25 commissioners and, the final climax,  President Sir John  Moore have expressed opposition to the Bill, I think the time is opportune to refer to the document which is entitled 'The Protection of Trade Union Rights: Twenty Years Work by the Committee on Freedom of Association.' The Committee not only protects the rights of association of trade unionists but also protects the rights of associations of employers. The resolution I am about to quote was carried at the International Labour Organisation and is referred to as convention No. 87. With the indulgence of the Senate I propose to read it. It states: 
In brief.  Convention No. 87  guarantees to all workers and employers, without distinction whatsoever and without previous authorisation, the right to establish and join organisations of their own choosing; these organisations are to have the right to draw up their constitutions and rules, to elect their representatives in full freedom, to organise their administration and activities and to formulate their programmes, without interference by the public authorities; they shall have the right to form federations and confederations, and to affiliate with international organisations of workers and employers; these rights also apply to federations and confederations; the acquisition of legal personality by organisations may not be made subject to conditions restricting the exercise of these rights; in exercising them workers and employers and their respective organisations must respect the law of the land- 
I repeat those last few words: 'must respect the law of the land'. I am appreciative of the nods of honourable senators opposite. It continues: 
. but in turn the law of the land may not be such as to impair, nor may it be so applied as to impair, the guarantees provided for in the Convention; 
So it is two-way traffic. To continue: 
. the extent to which the guarantees provided for in the Convention shall apply to the armed forces and the police is to be determined by national laws or regulations. 
I do not need to remind honourable senators opposite that the Australian nation, through its Parliament, is a member of the International Labour Organisation and a signatory to all these agreements. I suggest to honourable senators opposite that after they have read  Senator Missen  's speech they should read the relevant sections of the International Labour Organisation's conventions regarding freedom of association not only for trade unions but also for employers. 
I come to the point. Despite all these outbursts by such eminent men as those whose opinions I mentioned earlier and who are charged with the dispensing of justice in the industrial arena, we have received no responses from the Government. No opinions have been forthcoming from it. A statement was put down this morning, but we need refer only to the last paragraph to see the insincerity of the Government. It states: 

 Sir John asked when the legislation was expected to be passed through the Senate. I - 
That is  Mr Street,  the Minister- replied that the legislation would be dealt with in the normal way, but that the actual timing was of course in the hands of the Senate. 
I will leave the Senate to be judged on its performance this evening as to whether this legislation is being handled in the normal way. As I said, very forceful opinions have been expressed by  Sir Richard  Kirby,  Mr Justice  Staples and 25 commissioners, the climax being the meeting between the Minister and  Sir John  Moore. But where is the Government? It maintains the silence of Dean Maitland. No opinions or responses have been forthcoming from it. That makes those of us on this side of the chamber wonder what all this urgency is about. Why does the Government want the legislation passed today? Why is it prepared to steamroll through the Senate legislation which will have a vital effect on the whole of the nation. What is this all about? 
I have explained that the track record of this Government over the past two years is one of confrontation with the unions. It has condoned the public assembly legislation in Western Australia and the essential services legislation in 
Queensland. What is it building up to? I have heard previous speakers ask whether the Government is contemplating an early election. I do not know. I am at a loss to follow the performance of the Government in relation to the legislation before us. I do not know what it all adds up to. I do not know what is behind it all. What is the Government withholding from us? I do know. As I said, is it all leading up to an election? I hope that in the interests of this country the real reasons will be disclosed during the debate at the Committee stage when the Opposition will be able to give close scrutiny to the legislation, particularly to proposed new sections 22a, 25a and 143a. 
I present on behalf of  Senator Gietzelt,  who is otherwise occupied on parliamentary business, the following petition from 17 citizens of Australia: 
The Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the Federation of Parents and Citizens Associations of New South Wales respectfully showeth: 
That as citizens of NSW and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our schools be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for 
.  Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of 5 per cent in real terms on base level programs for 1 979. 
Restoration of the $8m cut from the Capital Grants for Government Schools 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. and your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I am prompted to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications following the numerous questions and answers of the past few weeks regarding the Australian Broadcasting Commission not taking up replays of major sporting events, including yesterday's Melbourne Cup, for the outback areas of Queensland. Does the Minister agree with answers that there is not a financial problem and that the commercial stations have offered the replays to the ABC free of charge? Does he agree that the programming or technical difficulties are not insurmountable? Is it the ABC's policy not to take up replays of major sporting events when it has been an unsuccessful tenderer for the exclusive rights to coverage? If so, when will the Government ask the ABC, which is the people's station, to change its policy and allow the people in the outback areas to have the same viewing opportunities as the people in the cities? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services aware that the Queensland Air Museum faces eviction by 31 March 1980 as the site presently occupied by it is required for the development of Brisbane Airport? Will the Minister ascertain from his colleague the Minister for Administrative services whether he will assist the Museum people by making available to them a site next to the Brisbane International Airport which I understand is regarded by them as suitable? 
I preface my question, which is addressed to the Minister for Social Security, by pointing out that the third main report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty, entitled 'Social-Medical Aspects of Poverty in Australia', contained a recommendation that pensions should be continued for all psychiatric patients eligible to receive them, regardless of whether they were 'excluded' or 'non-excluded' inmates of psychiatric hospitals. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the ad hoc committee of Ministers, the formation of which was mentioned in the Minister's statement to the Senate on 8 November 1977, has yet determined whether that recommendation will be implemented by the Government? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, is prompted by a report tabled recently in the Senate entitled 'Health Promotion in Australia 1978-79', issued by the Commonwealth Department of Health, distributed by the Australian Government Publishing Service and printed by the Government Printer. Is the Minister aware of the part of the report on page 132 which refers to 'Phantom-like campaigners who transform cigarette billboard advertisements into hard-hitting anti-smoking messages'? The report goes on to describe these people as 'resourceful advertisers, equipped with their wit and cans of spray paint'. I know the attitude of parliamentarians to anyone who interferes with their election signs so I ask the Minister to ask her colleague the Minister for Health what his attitude is towards that reference and whether he is aware that, if a statement is not made on it, it could be interpreted as being the policy of the Department and those people whose property is being attacked may be forced into the position of having to protect their property. While the Minister is making representations to the Minister for Health will she also ask him whether he does not think his Department is over-reacting to and being emotional regarding this advertising campaign? What health motive is there in the campaign literature distributed among school children in the Hunter region of New South Wales which says: 'Kiss a Non-Smoker . . . Taste the Difference '? 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment the following question, upon notice, on 18 October 1979: 
Will Japanese longline fishermen, under the proposed restrictions on their operations, be able to fish up to 30 kilometres inside the Great Barrier Reef region as defined by the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act 1975, in the waters between Innisfail and Lizard Island. 
