I second the proposal. 
May I have the indulgence of the Joint Sitting to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate commences I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the Joint Sitting to have a general debate covering this proposed law and the proposed law entitled Health Insurance Act 1973, as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest,  Mr Chairman,  that you permit the subject matter of the two proposed laws to be discussed in this debate. 
-I have listened with great interest to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  expressing his views on this legislation. Apparently, he has decided to lend his voice to the propaganda war against the national health scheme. Having heard him and the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  this morning, it appears to me that they represent in this country a political force that is a relic of the dark ages. I say this because apparently the policy of the Tories in the 1930s was more enlightened than the policy of the Liberals in the 1970s. 

 -The Deputy Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  says 'nonsense'. Thirty-six years ago a then senior Minister of the Government of the time- he was Treasurer in a United Australia Party Government- introduced a Bill into the Parliament dealing with national health. The Minister concerned later became a Minister in a Liberal-Country Party Government and, indeed, later became the Governor-General of Australia.  Mr Casey,  as he then was, introduced that Bill into the House on 4 May 1938 and said in his second reading speech: 
Voluntary insurance has failed to cater for a substantial part of our population. The greater portion of those who stand in most need of insurance are uninsured. 
-Mr Casey said that in 1 938. He went on to say: 
They are either unable to afford it without the assistance of the government or lack the initiative to become and to remain insured. 
He went on to say, 36 years ago: 
The story of voluntary insurance is marred by a tragedy of the number of lapses from insurance due to sickness, unemployment and other misfortunes. 
Again, referring to history, we have seen a Minister of a previous government,  Mr Menzies  as he then was, resign from the Ministry because that legislation was not implemented. It is to the shame of previous conservative governments, governments of the same political persuasion as the Party to which the Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Hotham and all other members who are taking part in this debate from the Opposition point of view belong, that the nation's so-called voluntary health scheme does not cater for at least a million Australians today. It is those people and their children more than anyone else who need the scheme to cover their health needs. Until they are fully protected and until they are fully covered, we as Australians will not have a truly national health scheme. 
Of course, in our own political time we have seen inquiry after inquiry reach practically the same conclusions as those enunciated by  Mr Casey  in 1938. We saw the previous LiberalCountry Party Government try to head off the establishment of a Labor sponsored Senate Select Committee to inquire into health and hospital costs. It did this by appointing another inquiry, namely the Nimmo committee of inquiry, only to find the Nimmo committee reach the inevitable conclusion that a new approach was required by all interested parties. We saw the Nimmo committee advocate the establishment of a national health insurance commission. A previous Liberal Minister for Health, the honourable member for Barker,  Dr Forbes,  who I understand will be taking part in this debate, stated in a ministerial statement on 4 March 1 970: 
It has been decided - 
This is by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government -  to adopt the Committee's proposal that a National Health Insurance Commission be established. The Government is currently giving consideration to the composition and functions of the new Commission. 
That was 4 years ago. Nothing was done between March 1970 and December 1972 when this Government came to office. In the last 20 months we have seen the Opposition in the Senate time after time reject important legislation on this subject. Indeed, it has refused even to give the legislation a second reading. The debate on this BUI, therefore, has raged and smouldered on many fronts since it was first introduced in the House of Representatives. Probably no Bill in the history of this Parliament has been more debated; no Bill in the history of this Parliament has been more represented. But at this stage in the long and repetitious debate that has gone on over the years there are 2 points that still bear reiteration. They have not sunk home to the people who matter, the people who pay the medical bills- the Australian people- because they have been caught up in this political propaganda war that has been waged by our political opponents. Red herrings have been spawned by the opponents of this Health Insurance Bill in a veritable ocean of propaganda that has almost swamped the real issues that are the subject of the debate. 
The Bill, let me stress, is not and should never have been the subject of a campaign between the Government and the medical profession. Yet there is again this false propaganda on the part of the Liberal Party and the Country Party and on the part of the health funds that in some way the doctors have to fight a so-called socialist plot to undermine doctor-patient relationships. No scheme that involves a fee-for-service payment by the patient- as this scheme does- as well as permitting the patient his or her choice of doctoras this scheme does- can possibly interfere with that relationship. The Bill really concerns the Government's relations with the Health funds- the so-called voluntary health insurance funds. The Bill seeks to improve and rationalise the system of health insurance because it is the Australian Government that is the major contributor to the health funds. The majority of Australians are simply unaware that the Government subsidises very substantially the patients' contributions to the health funds and that the funds are not simply private insurance organisations. Indeed, I have seen it written that the Australian Government pays for $2 out of every $3 that a medical practitioner earns. If that be so, the fact that two of the funds have more than $50m in reserves and recently signalled their intention to raise patient contribution charges naturally was very much a matter of concern to the Australian Government. So, the focus is finally where it deserves to be. 
In the Prime Minister's policy speech he stated that the Australian Labor Government would introduce a universal health insurance scheme, that it would be administered by a single fund and that contributions would be paid according to taxable income. That- no more and no less- is the hard core of this legislation. But,  Mr Acting Chairman,  the Opposition has deliberately set out to hoodwink the Australian people. It talks constantly about the alleged high cost of the Australian Government's scheme sponsored by my colleague  Mr Hayden,  the Minister for Social Security. As part of its propaganda war it conveniently forgets to mention some of the benefits accruing to the Australian people from this scheme. It refuses constantly to tell the people some of the things which they will get from the 
Government scheme. We heard the Leader of the Opposition talk about hospitals and the need for the modernisation of hospitals. The Liberals have not told the Australian people, for instance, that the present hospital bed benefit of 80c a day for uninsured hospital patients is the same as the amount which was introduced by the Chifley Labor Government in 1948- never changed by conservative governments over nearly a quarter of a century- and they have not told the Australian people that the Labor Government wants to increase that subsidy to hospitals for uninsured patients from 80c a day to $16 a day. They have not told the people either that the bed subsidy paid by the Government of $2 a day for insured patients is exactly the same as that which was introduced by a Tory government in 1958 or 1959-15 or 16 years ago- and that this Labor Government seeks to increase it from $2 a day to $ 1 6 a day. They have not told the people that the amount of subsidy payable for hospital bed accommodation for pensioners has remained at $5 a day since 1963- for over a decade under the Liberal and Country Party governments- and that this Government wants to increase it from $5 a day to $16 a day. 
If the Opposition will give us this Bill the subsidies that I have enunciated today will be raised by this Government. The Liberals have not told the Australian public that the pensioners, who now have to queue in a public hospital for specialist attention because the niggardly Liberal-Country Party Government that preceded us in this place did not give the States sufficient funds, under our scheme will not be discriminated against and that they, as much as any other Australian, will be able to see a specialist to whom they have been referred in the specialist's own consulting rooms. Surely, they, as pioneers of this country, are entitled to equal dignity and equal treatment. 

 Mr Acting Chairman, I do not intend to canvass the many other details of this Bill. The details are not nearly as important as the general aims, objects and purpose of the legislation, as has been demonstrated by my colleagues  Mr Hayden  and  Mr Berinson  and by the few examples I have cited. The Bill puts the interests of the majority of Australians far ahead of the interests of the anonymous, self-appointed pontiffs who supervise the hundred or more private insurance funds. The Bill says, in effect, that no Australian should be placed in a position where his health or that of his family can be jeopardised by his lack of money or where his health or that of his children can be further jeopardised by worry over his ability to pay.  Sir, all  fair minded Australians should support the principle enunciated in this Bill. That is really the gravamen of the whole of this debate. That is why we of the Government say that the motion before the Chair should be overwhelmingly carried and supported by this historic Joint Sitting. I support the motion. 
