Thank you,  Mr President.  I congratulate the previous  speaker, Senator Baume,  on his maiden speech. I know how he felt when he made it. I feel both privileged and honoured to have been elected as a senator for Western Australia. My first few words will have left no doubts in the minds of honourable senators as to the country of my birth. But I hasten to remind honourable senators that Federation took place 74 years ago and that I have been a resident of Western Australia for one-third of the life of that Federation. As a migrant it gives me, especially, a rewarding kind of joy and satisfaction to represent my adopted State of Western Australia. I believe that every honourable senator is concerned about his own State and, what is more important, the people who live there. After all, any State is only the sum total of the people who live in it. What is a State without people? There can be no State without people. I believe that every honourable senator should have his mind attuned to the needs, wants and aspirations of the people he is privileged to represent in this chamber. Let us remind ourselves that each State of the Commonwealth has its own peculiarities and that sight must not be lost of those peculiarities. At the same time let us not forget that it is right, proper and just for all of us to be able to see the problems that affect others, lest we become over-parochial about and over-protective of our own States. That could be detrimental to the good of the nation as a whole. 
Far be it for me to lecture honourable senators on the geography of Western Australia, but its vastness must be considered as one of the peculiarities that merit some consideration. Let us consider that for a moment. The Grants Commission has divided each State into 10 regions in order to facilitate its consideration of each State 's development. Let us now look at the vastness of Western Australia in this manner and see the magnitude in size alone of those 10 regions. Albany, the first region, is more than half as large as New South Wales. Bunbury, the second region, is 10 times the size of the Australian Capital Territory. Geraldton, the third region, is almost the size of New South Wales. Kalgoorlie, the fourth region, is  2½  times the size of Victoria. The fifth region is Merredin, which is half the size of South Australia. The sixth region is Narrogin, which is nearly twice the size of Victoria. Northam, the seventh region, is three-fifths the size of Tasmania. The metropolitan area of Perth is the eighth region. The ninth region is Port Hedland, which is half the size of South 
Australia. Wyndham, which is one-third of the size of the Northern Territory, is the tenth region. 
Outside the Perth metropolitan area are some 1 14 local government authorities which have an average population of 2,200 each. Some of the local government areas contain towns that are separated not just by tens of miles but by hundreds of miles. Some of the population pockets are isolated to such a degree that they simply cannot share in the quality of life enjoyed by other more fortunate sections of the community. The areas of disadvantage include the fields of education, cultural activities, social activities and community amenities. The areas of disadvantage are such that the people of these regions identify themselves with the nearest town rather than the nearest community. That makes any development that is engendered by the people very much more difficult and constitutes a serious problem. In order to share in the quality of life through regionalisation special attention must be given to those isolated areas so that the people in them can feel that they belong and know that they have not been forgotten but are in fact part of the nation. That applies particularly to the many company towns in the north-west of Western Australia. I felt sad and disheartened at the rejection of the referendum proposals, especially the one on local government. I do not wish to go into that subject at this time. The presentation of referendums is something that both the Government and the Opposition should go into more deeply. If one looked at the recommendations of the Constitutional Review Committee of 1959 and acted honestly I am certain that the results of referendums in Australia would be very much different. It is not right for the Opposition, for its own purpose of political expediency, to encourage the electorate to remain in the nineteenth century. The Senate election produced a result in Western Australia which has proved once and for all that right wing fringe elements like the secessionist movement have no appeal whatsoever to the people in my State. 
The people of Western Australia, despite the procrastinating efforts of some, do not think of their State as a huge mineral and mining camp to be exploited by foreign multi-national corporations. The people of Western Australia have shown that they know where they belong. They are equal partners with the rest of the Australian nation. For that reason it is necessary to assure them that their particular problems- remoteness and vastness- are borne in mind by honourable senators, and also by honourable members in the other place, when progressive legislation is brought before the Parliament. We, the legislators, must be aware of and attuned to the needs of people when we introduce legislation which affects the quality of life. It is our duty, our responsibility and our privilege to secure for every Australian man, woman and child the quality of life that will result in achieving, or at least may help people to achieve, a way of life of their own choice but of an intellectual, material and spiritual quality, if you wish, that is not discriminatory of anyone in any way, and I do commend that to honourable senators. 

 Senator wright (Tasmania) (9.12)-Mr  President,  there was one obvious omission from the courtesy that you accorded me in giving me the call but I expect that experience justifies your attitude because I could hardly claim that I am about to make my maiden speech. In the 24^ years that I have been in this place I have seen a fascinating course of development of Constitutional experience. However, I have yet to witness for the first time, as do all other honourable senators the possibility of the full development of section 57 of the Constitution in the form of a submission of Bills after a double dissolution of the Parliament, and a joint sitting of both Houses. It will be remembered that when we last addressed the Senate it was on an occasion when the Government was finally driven to a general election. Having indicated that we would vote against the gag on the Supply Bill, the Government accepted the challenge and then submitted to the Governor-General a recommendation for a double dissolution of the Parliament. That course of events has been the subject of comment throughout the country, and for the most part the comment has not been renowned, for its fruitfulness. There are some who would still challenge that the Senate on that occasion acted within its authority. There are some who would say that the course of action which the Senate took was against constitutional convention. I take this occasion to say firmly and patiently that those views are unfounded. Whether the Constitution is up to date-  Senator Button  from Victoria suggests that is not the case- or whether it needs revision has little relevance because one of the compelling facts in this situation is that it is the present Constitution. 
Before considering a revision of the Constitution we ought to realise the provisions it now expresses and then study them to ascertain whether they are prudent or otherwise. It is one of the remarkable oddities of life that the Labor senators who on some occasions pride themselves on being progressive, or to use another term, left-wing, in matters such as this yield to the temptation of equating the Australian Senate to one of the most conservative and probably outmoded bodies that still endures as an upper House in the world. They like to draw their experience from the British House of Lords and they like to remind their public of certain colonial and later State legislatures that were established here in Australia to some extent modelled on the 2-House system of the British Parliament. 
An important feature about the House of Lords is that it consists of lords who are born of parents who have the right to an inherited peerage. If they are born within a bed that is countenanced by peers entitled to inheritance they can come into the House of Lords without election or summons. They can come into the House of Lords simply by arriving at a certain age. They owe their position in the second chamber of the House of Lords purely to the accident of birth. But, in addition, the political manoeuvres of the British system are entitled if they have not got sufficient peers of their own political persuasion, to go to the Queen and recommend that she confer another 25 peerages upon nominated personnel and so add to the House of Lords simply by a minute of the palace on the advice of the Prime Minister. 
The next point about the House of Lords is that it is incapable of dissolution in any circumstances. Notwithstanding the vicissitudes in the political sense that overtake the House of Commons as an elected House, the House of Lords goes on undissolved in any circumstances. It is not surprising therefore that, in the century that followed the great Reform Bill, if there were to be an effective management of the country's finances by a House of Commons recruited by a general suffrage the House of Commons was going to insist upon a severe curtailment of any attempt on the part of the House of Lords to appropriate the moneys that were required for public revenues or to minimise taxes that were required for general services. So even before 1900 the convention was developing that the House of Lords could not amend or reject a money Bill. That convention was growing with great acceptance until a Liberal government came into power in 1906 and the House of Lords took a stand. I think my memory of the record is correct when I say that every major proposal put forward by the Liberal Government to increase taxes or requiring additional appropriations for public services after 1906 and before 1 9 10 was opposed by the Conservative Party in the House of Commons. Every single measure that was singled out by the Opposition Conservative Party in the House of Commons was rejected by the 
House of Lords. And so, of course, the House of Lords met its nemesis in 1911 and it has been having its wings clipped ever since because the Commons then established legal mastery whereby it was entitled to have its measures passed through Parliament with only a minimum of delay, no amendment, and with certainly no power of rejection, in the ultimate sense, in the House of Lords. 
Yet it is that precedent which the socialists, the left wingers and the superficial newspaper writers who presume to comment upon the propriety of the Senate 's exercise of its powers in this matter take as their precedent. It should be noticed that our Constitution was framed in the decade ending in 1 900 and finally was enacted in that year. It was at that period of" history. But we were not a unitary state. We were a federal body created as the appropriate Parliament for the newly federated Australian States. Therefore, far from the Senate being given just its historical existence, owing its constituent members to the accident of birth, the Senate was the first and vital suggestion, the foundation stone, of the Australian Federal Constitution. The first thing that was agreed to and subsequently ratified by referendum of the Australian people was that there should be equal representation for each of the original 6 States in the Senate. Is it to be suggested that the Senate here, with senators representing those States equally, should be likened to the House of Lords? And when State interests are concerned, particularly in these days when State revenues are such a dominant issue, are senators to be thought to be merely an upper House with revisionary powers? No, they are in the first place representatives of the States- not of the governments of the States, let me hasten to add; in view of some representations that were taken to London on recent occasions they are certainly not representatives of the governments of the States but of the people of the States. Therefore, we were given equal representation notwithstanding the population of each State. 
But once we get to electing the members of this chamber we cannot go to the palace and say: 'I want a dozen more'. In Australia the Senate owes its election to the general suffrage, the adult vote, of the people on as wide a democratic basis as the election of the Australian House of Commons, the House of Representatives. Therefore, it was appropriate that the Senate was given powers completely incomparable with anything that was appropriate to the House of Lords. When we come to the question of double dissolution and its application to money Bills we go to Part V of the Constitution which consists of a few significant sections of the Constitution. Section 5 1 enumerates the general powers of this Federal Parliament; section 52 enumerates the powers which belong to this Parliament alone, its exclusive powers; section 53 then devotes itself to the difference between the powers of the Senate and of the House of Representatives. The first thing it says on the limitation of the authority of the Senate is that the Senate shall not originate proposed laws appropriating revenue or moneys or imposing taxation. Then it applied the provision that the Senate may not amend proposed laws imposing taxation and some appropriation Bills. 
But the Senate's power of amendment was strictly limited to those appropriation Bills which deal with the ordinary annual services of the Parliament and, even as to new appropriations and new policies, the Senate has the same right of amendment as the House of Representatives. Even as to other Bills it has the power to request amendments and to pursue its requests so that the situation is that, amendments having been requested, the Bill cannot be accepted until it is accepted by the Senate. Then the section provides that except in those respects the Senate shall have equal power with the House of Representatives in all proposed laws. It is after an enumeration of the powers of the Parliament, the exclusive powers of the Parliament, and a definition of any distinction between the powers belonging to this place and another place that we find section 57 brought into the constitution. Section 57 provides that if any proposed law is rejected or amended by this chamber twice after an interval of 3 months then the GovernorGeneral may dissolve both Houses of Parliament. So in section 57, apart from the context to which I have referred, it is completely clear that having dealt with money Bills a section or two before, and section 57 referring to any proposed laws, and realising the degree of attention and the very great study that was given to section 57, it is not by any inadvertence but by deliberate enactment that the double dissolution power applies to money Bills as to other Bills. In the contemporary text that expounded that Constitution, a text that is regarded with veneration as an authority, except in certain respects where experience has disclosed need for amendment, Quick and Garran at page 687, when commenting by way of notes upon section 57, says: 
MONEY BILLS-These dead-lock provisions apply to all bills- as well bills which the Senate may not amend as bills which it may amend. 
So that on every argument it is incontrovertible that section 57 was designed so as expressly to refer to all proposed laws, including money Bills. 
The second thing to notice is that when the Senate takes the course of rejecting a Bill, including a money Bill, and after an interval of 3 months repeating that rejection, the course that is taken is not to send the House of Representative alone to the country. The Constitution provides that the Senate, as well as the House of Representatives, shall be dissolved. If honourable senators look to the text of Quick and Garran they will see this printed for our information: 
The provision made by this Constitution for the dissolution of the Senate is the latest and greatest experiment in Federal Government. 
Other federations, up until that time, had not provided for any circumstance in which a dissolution of their upper houses could occur. Therefore, the balance which came into the Constitution was that if the Senate, specially constructed with the powers to which I have referred, deemed it proper in the exercise of its responsibility twice to reject a Bill after a 3 month interval, it put its judgment to the decision of the people just as the House of Representatives action in relation to the Bill is put to the judgment of the people. These great democrats-  Mr Whitlam  and those whom he cites for his authority- who state that the Senate is trenching upon democratic rights when it interrupts the free flow of mischief by a government within its 3-year term completely falsify the situation because each House goes to the country for a decision by the people. What do Quick and Garran say with regard to that? After discussing the prudence that would be required in the exercise of these powers and the responsibility that they would command on the part of the Senate, Quick and Garran state: 
This much is certain, that the people as final arbiters will be the gainers of power by the liability of both Houses to dissolution. 
That is to say, the true constitutional exponents recognise that this procedure is one whereby the Senate takes its risk to its members in the exercise of what it feels is a public duty. But why does it do this? It is to obtain a decision from the people on the deadlock. Quick and Garran state that those who gain in authority by the exercise of this process are the people who act as the final arbiters. These political personages who are so superficial as to suggest impropriety in the Senate action in putting up the processes for a double dissolution and committing both Houses to a decision by the people are completely betraying the fundamental rights of the people to democracy. 
All this having been said, we want to arrive at the conclusion that the Senate now is no longer what was sneered at by  Mr Whitlam  for a few months before June as a Senate elected in 1957. He claimed that the House of Representatives only was the contemporary House. This House is just as contemporary as the House of Representatives and entitled to claim direct representation from the people at the same election as the House of Representatives. As  Senator Baume  so appropriately said, is it not satisfying that the people returned a Labor Government in the House of Representatives with a majority significantly reduced but not uncontrolled? The same election constituted the Senate in such a way that the Labor Party section of it does not have a majority. Therefore, it would be within the spirit of democracy that in that situation the Government in another place should recognise that we in this chamber have inescapable and inalienable duties to study the legislation on its merits. If we feel that it is proper to reject or radically amend it, then, of course, we have to take the consequences; but they will not be the consequences dictated by  Mr Whitlam.  They will be those that are decided upon by the people. That is particularly important at the present time in view of the dangers to this country that are developing. 
I do not go on to refer to the subsequent constitutional provisions which yet have to develop in a fascinating experience over, perhaps, the next days, weeks or months. It is proposed that there will be joint sittings of the Houses of Parliament and further discussion of legislation. But that will take place in a setting in which we will have the Labor Party imposing on the people the highest interest rates in history, interest rates which, if they had been mentioned before 2 December 1 972, would have led to lynching on the part of people who were so lunatic as to generate them. People who have $50,000 to deposit with the trading banks of this country have been able to obtain an interest rate of 22 per cent. Today, they are able to obtain an interest rate of about 13 per cent or 14 per cent. Now, by Government decree made this week, the general bank interest rate charged on borrowings has increased to the outrageous figure of between 9.5 per cent and 1 1.5 per cent. At the same time, the small depositor who has less than $4,000 deposited in a savings bank is compelled by the law of the same Government to accept an interest rate of about 4 per cent on his savings. This is creating a situation in which the cost of money is increasing the intense heat of inflation coming from rising prices in all other directions. 
I am told that during the last 12 months general building costs in Victoria have increased by 36 per cent and that in New South Wales they have increased by 38 per cent. That leads me to quote from a reported statement made by Professor Downing which appeared in today's Press. The report states: 
Rapid acceleration of income was likely to destroy democracy rather than reshape it through redistribution of wealth,  . . He said that the ultimate outcome of accelerating inflation was economic collapse and political revolution. 
Democracy will not survive, here or elsewhere, unless its people can develop the self-restraint necessary to control inflation. 
That statement is couched in language that cannot fail to engage the attention and concern of every serious person in this country. But tonight we listened to a speech that outlined the transition from compulsory arbitration and an ordered series of resolutions of industrial disputes to a socalled system of collective bargaining whereby combinations of industries are continually pounding their pressures on the economy and producing increases in economic rates which permit of no stability. That is the chief cause of this inflation that Professor Downing says is so dangerous. It is this policy and action by a militant, irresponsible, small coterie of union bosses that this Government encourages. Does that not pose a challenge to this Senate in accordance with its constitutional powers which we must keep in mind as the Government unfolds its program in the next week or two? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Agriculture, concerns the twenty-sixth meeting of the International 
Whaling Commission in London late last month. For what reasons did Australia move an amendment to the motion moved by the United States for a complete moratorium on commercial whaling, and what was the amendment? 
I direct my question to the Postmaster-General. Will the PostmasterGeneral consider the introduction of a scheme of quarterly billing of telephone subscribers in lieu of the present 6-monthly billing? 
-Can the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation provide the number of ex-service men and women who have applied for treatment of malignant cancer? 
-Can the PostmasterGeneral say what steps are being taken to extend computer billing of telephone subscribers, already in operation in Sydney and Melbourne, to other States? What are the advantages of computer bulk billing? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Is it a fact that the more seriously incapacitated of the general rate pensioners have had the amount of their compensation seriously eroded by the abolition of the special compensation allowances previously paid to them? 
-I direct a question to the Postmaster-General. Is it a fact that $lm is lost each year by the Postmaster-General 's Department through telephone debts? Does he take any other action apart from the threat of disconnection to protect the Department against bad debts? 
-Is the AttorneyGeneral familiar with the provisions of the Western Australian Government's proposed Fuel Energy and Power Resources Amendment Bill? Should the Court Government pass this Bill and at some future date invoke its fascist provisions could any action be taken by the Australian Government to protect the civil liberties of Western Australian citizens and the existence of parliamentary democracy in the State? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. It was announced in the Treasurer's Budget Speech that British ex-servicemen would be eligible to receive service pensions. Can the 
Minister say when British ex-servicemen will be able to receive these pensions and what the conditions of eligibility will be? 
-Can the PostmasterGeneral advise whether the Australian Post Office proposes to lower the qualifying standard for an amateur radio operators ' licence? 
My question which is directed to the Postmaster-General relates to the decision of the Government to reduce charges on the shortest distance trunk calls. Can the Postmaster-General now supply information on the number of subscribers to benefit and the extent of the overall benefit? 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Defence been drawn to an article in a Western Australian newspaper which stated that Derby airport will be upgraded to allow full operational use by the Royal Australian Air Force? If this is a fact, will he inform the Senate what steps have been taken to date? 
I present the following petition from 600 citizens of the Commonwealth. 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
We the undersigned citizens of Australia do humbly petition the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia that it might take such steps as may be necessary either to direct the Commonwealth Banking Corporation to preserve and restore the Palace Hotel or itself acquire the said Palace Hotel, St George's Terrace, Penh on its present site so as to preserve and restore it in perpetuity. 
Further we do humbly petition this honourable Parliament to make such funds as may be necessary available to purchase the entire contents of the said hotel from the owners thereof. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
On a serious note, I can see nothing undignified about shorts, long socks and a tie. 
-Or kilts, for that matter. So long as they are not compulsory,  Senator Georges  does not have to worry. I join  Senator McLaren  in saying that we should test the feeling of the Senate on the mode of dress. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. The Minister will remember keeping the Senate informed from time to time over the last financial year of the Government's activities in the field of road safety. Can he advise at this time details of any major projects that the Department of Transport intends undertaking in 1974-75 for road safety research and promotion? 
-I ask the Minister for the Media whether there have been any moves towards the establishment of a national television service for the mining township of Pannawonica in the Pilbara region of Western Australia? If there have been any developments, will the Minister inform the Senate when the service can be provided? 
-Can the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation confirm that pensioners who lose their pensioner medical service card cease to be entitled to fringe benefits? What is the reason for this, and what action can be taken to avoid such situations in the future? 
-Has the Minister for the Media seen the article in the issue of 'Nation Review' of 6 December headed 'Mercury Editor Holds Breath' in which it is reported that the Mercury', a Hobart newspaper, has retaliated against the 5 Tasmanian Labor senators who issued a writ against it for defamation in October by instructing its editorial staff that until the defamation action is resolved the names of the senators are not to appear in any section of the Mercury' administered by the editorial department? Does the Minister believe that the effect of this so-called retaliation is that, even in relation to the Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Wriedt,  the 5 Tasmanian senators who are plaintiffs in the court proceedings have been 'sent to Coventry' and their existence is not admitted by the Mercury'? Does the Minister view such retaliation as an oppressive act, especially from a medium which asserts the so-calledfreedom of the Press'? In short, is such action by a newspaper which enjoys a monopoly in the south of Tasmania an example of political censorship? Is there any action which the Minister is able to take to end this retaliatory action? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. Has there been a move to use Australia's first frequency modulation stereo radio station for educational broadcasting? Is the Government looking at ways to help this move by considering a network arrangement of educational broadcasts? 
-Has the Minister for the Media received any representations from people concerned with the growth of a healthy local music recording industry? Has he looked into ways in which the Government might assist in its growth? Is it not a fact that the Australian Labor Party agreed at the recent conference at Terrigal that the Government should investigate ways by which the progress of the recording industry could be encouraged? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture, follows a question asked by  Senator DrakeBrockman  and relates to the Australian Country Party's demands that the Government should interfere with free enterprise in the beef industry. I ask: Is the Country Party's present attitude a contradiction of its demands, right up to a year ago, that the Government keep out of the free market? Is the Country Party now advocating nationalisation of the beef industry? 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Media. Is it true that the Australian Broadcasting Commission pays residuals -or payments for repeats of performances- to local artists? Is it true that the commercial television stations do not make those payments and that that is of some concern to the local artists? What has the Government done to remedy the situation? 
I rise to support the Bill and to commend the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  on his understanding of the industrial situation today and also his ability to recognise what will happen in the future and to make allowances for future developments in the industrial situation. I realise that this Bill has been before the House on a number of occasions and that there is very little that anyone can add to what has been said already. I have listened to  Senator Greenwood  speak on this subject on 2 occasions. He is completely unemcumbered with any knowledge of what goes on inside the trade union movement, although he seems to have plenty to say on it. I think that he should do some homework on the voting system in relation to the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. Anyone in the AMWU who wants to apply for a court controlled ballot can do so at any time he wishes. 
When the Minister prepared this Bill he was obviously aware of the fact that the days are going, if they have not already gone, when the local union organisation could negotiate with the local employers and come to some agreement which was acceptable to both parties. What is happening today is that local employers are being reduced to the level of contractors and subcontractors. Bigger business has taken over- the national and multinational combines- and they have the facilities to look at the economic situation throughout the world in order to decide policy. Their policy is determined on a national or international scale without any feeling or consideration for the local situation as it exists. 
It is not uncommon for a number of unions to be parties to a single award or agreement. The trade union movement can no longer allow this situation to continue. It must streamline its organisation in order to be able to compete against the employer organisations which are merging and amalgamating year in, year out. The trade union movement must put itself into a position where it can afford full time officials to do field work and provide research officers and all the necessary staff. If it does not, then I am afraid it just will not survive. It is a matter of survival in today's world. Even the employer organisations cannot be bothered with a multiplicity of awards and agreements. They are on record as having stated that they are in favour of amalgamation. 
Three of the unions in the metal trades group have already amalgamated. They were well aware of the situation which was developing and went ahead with amalgamation, but since then the Democratic Labor Party has managed to convince the Country and Liberal Parties that it is a good thing to obstruct amalgamation, and they have been obstructing it ever since without any consideration of what the future holds for the trade union movement, or the arbitration system for that matter. On the other hand we can find quite a number of employer organisations amalgamating. There are all sorts of evidence of it. The Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia and the Australian Council of Employers Federations are merging, according to the 'Canberra Times' which stated: 
Negotiations which are scheduled to culminate on January 1 next year in the amalgamation of the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia and the Australian Council of Employers Federations probably will be the most significant development in the employers' industrial relations for decades. 
-I will come back to that in a minute. In the 'Sydney Morning Herald ' the following appeared under the heading 'Big Employers ' Merger Planned ': 
The Chamber of Manufactures will soon consider a similar resolution, leading to establishment of the new organisation on April 1 next. 
The 'West-Australian' on 4 November 1974 said: 
Two of the biggest and the most powerful employer groups in Western Australia- the Employers Federation and the Chamber of Manufactures- appear to be on the brink of a merger. 
From the Parliamentary Library Legislative Research Service I have obtained details of mergers of employer organisations and the dates of the mergers. At the federal level, in April 1970 the Metal Trades Employers Association, operating in New South Wales and Queensland, merged with the Metal Industries Association of Victoria, and with the Australian Metal Industries Association of South Australia and the Metal Industries Employers' Association of Western Australia joined as affiliates. The new organisation is called the Metal Trades Industry Association. In June 1971 the autonomous State organisations of the Printing and Allied Trades Employers Federation of Australia adopted plans for a national organisation and called itself the Printing and Allied Trades Employers Federation of Australia. On a State level, the South Australian Chamber of Manufactures and the Adelaide Chamber of Commerce Inc. have merged. In 1 973 the Tasmanian Chamber of Manufactures and the Tasmanian Employers Federation merged. On 1 January 1974 the Western Australian Chamber of Manufactures and the Western Australian Employers Federation merged as did the Queensland Chamber of Manufactures and the Queensland Employers Federation. 
I am not quarrelling with this. I have no quarrel with it whatsoever. If they wish to merge, go ahead, let them merge. I am not quarrelling with it. What I am quarrelling with is the obstructionist attitude of the Opposition here when it comes to mergers in the trade union movement. The Opposition has no idea of the nature of trade unions; it has no idea of what goes on in trade unions when it talks in the way in which it does. There is no need for the employer organisations I referred to have a ballot of every one of their shareholders any more than it is a necessity for everyone to vote in a local government election. 
There is a growing feeling in the trade union movement that the arbitration system has been designed to fragment and penalise the unions, that it is designed to discriminate against workers and wage earners and rob them of an independent trade union movement. I do not wish to take up too much time but I would like to make it clear that I am not putting up a case for the survival of the trade union movement. The trade union movement was fighting for the rights of its members long before arbitration and will continue to fight long after arbitration has withered or has been choked or killed by the Opposition here. If we wish arbitration to survive the Opposition had better have a close look at what it is doing because amalgamation is inevitable. The unions will amalgamate whether it is done inside or outside the arbitration system. The way the Opposition has continued to obstruct amalgamation is a warning to me. It sounds like the death knell for the arbitration system. 
-Has the Minister for the Media seen Press reports which say that 2 small children nearly burnt out a section of their parents' home after watching a television advertisement for a cigarette lighter? If these reports are true, at what time was the advertisement shown on television? What action will the Minister take in regard to this advertisement if the reports are true? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for the Media been drawn to allegations that the film production company Transalia Productions Pty Ltd, which owns the film and television rights to the story 'The River Kings' has had its proposed television series plagiarised by an American company? As the story is by an Australian author and is set in Australia and was to be produced by an Australian company, is the Minister prepared to assist the company to establish its rights? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. With the general insurance industry experiencing serious difficulties due to unfavourable and heavy claims, does the Australian Government insurance office expect to take over other insurance businesses? If so, how will such takeovers be effected? Also, is the establishment of an Australian Government insurance office likely to precipitate staff dismissals in the industry? Has the Minister consulted the appropriate staff organisations in the insurance industry on this matter? If so, will he please state whether the Government is concerned about the impact of staff retrenchments on the insurance industry? 
-My question is directed to the Posmaster-General. It was recently announced that the Government would establish temporary transmitting facilities for Radio Australia in Western Australia to replace the facilities put out of action by cyclone Tracy at Cox Peninsula, Darwin. Can the Postmaster-General indicate whether a site in Western Australia has yet been chosen? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Is the Minister aware that an attempt in Western Australia to provide special insurance cover against the failure of wheat crops is in trouble and in fact has been suspended? Is this an indication that there may be a need for special national interest insurance in Australia to protect farmers and other primary producers from contingencies that at present they are unable to insure against? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction. Is it true that the Western Australian Government is the only State Government to refuse to join the Australian Government's Housing Indicative Planning Council? Is the Minister aware that the Western Australian Minister for Housing has claimed, as a reason for that Government's refusal to join, that the Council will not cater for the distribution of resources according to the requirements of the many regions of the State and for assessing the many competing demands in the building industry? Has the Council 's proposal been explained to the Western Australian Minister, and, if it has, what reasons can be put forward for the Minister's misguided and mischievous opinions? 
I direct a question to the Postmaster-General. I refer to a question asked by  Senator Walsh  yesterday relating to improved telephone communications between Perth and the eastern States. Is the Minister aware of the rising telephone and telegraph needs between Perth and Norseman? If so, what action is the Australian Post Office taking to meet those needs? 
-Has the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation seen reports in several daily newspapers this morning of statements attributed to  Sir Vincent  Fairfax that there ought to be a truce in the debate on the proposed Australian Government Insurance Corporation? Has  Sir Vincent  consulted the Minister at any time concerning the establishment of an AGIC? Have  Sir Vincent's  views on the proposed truce been communicated to the Minister personally? Does a truce mean that the insurance companies' hysterical campaign against the AGIC in public rallies, public misstatements about the AGIC and other parts of the campaign to discredit the Government will cease forthwith as part of the proposed truce? 
I understand that the Opposition will support this Bill in principle and move a number of amendments, but  Senator Wood  certainly fooled me. I realise that it is often most difficult to establish discrimination on race, colour or ethnic grounds, and of course there is always the risk of creating the converse situation. Nevertheless, that does not mean that the necessity to protect these people on such grounds should be neglected in any way. There is nothing worse than the mental cruelty that can be and is being inflicted on minority groups in our community by so-called law abiding citizens, and when the only ground for this discrimination is racial it is indeed high time that something was done about that form of cruelty which not only disadvantages a person in the fields of employment and housing but robs him of his dignity and his pride. Racial prejudice should not be tolerated. In a progressive society real social progress can be measured only by the attitudes of the majority of people to minority groups and the impact of those attitudes on the minority groups. This Bill helps to protect people from racial discrimination in the fields of employment and housing and in access to places and facilities. 
Previous speakers have dealt with employment and housing and have made an excellent job of it. There is little to be gained from my labouring those points much further. However, I will say that racial discrimination in the 1970s is not as blatant as it was in the 1950s, but it is just as latent, and that is where the danger lies- in the latent discrimination that goes on, especially in our education system. However, there is one area that receives little attention and virtually no publicity, and that is the area of expectation. Everyone has certain expectations in life. Surely this is part of ambition, whether it be in the field of employment, housing or elsewhere. People in ethnic groups are no different from anyone else in that regard, but within their framework of expectation they make allowances for the likelihood of being discriminated against on purely racial grounds. I am talking about people in ethnic groups who protect themselves from being disappointed or hurt simply by not applying for higher employment or better accommodation, solely because of the fear of discrimination on sheer racial grounds. To appreciate this one must feel it. One must experience it to know what it is like to have the feeling of being rejected and to realise how it can break a person's spirit. In many cases these people could be quite wrong, but it happens so often that they are not prepared to take a chance. Their fear is real. Their fear of rejection does exist and it can be passed on to the next generation. Should one's skin happen to be black by chance or by the grace of God, then this fear of rejection will be passed on to further generations. When young Evonne Goolagong was chosen in 1 972 as Australian of the Year she said: 
In the past I have been referred to as an Aboriginal. Now I will be truly known as an Australian. 
I was moved by that. I was most touched indeed. Quite innocently she had reflected the type of cruelty that society, with its Anglo-Saxon conformity, inflicts on the minds of minority groups. These minority groups form an integral and most important part of our community. Nevertheless, I feel that we should never lose sight of the fact that, whether we like it or not, we are a nation of migrants. In no way can we claim to be an egalitarian society and at the same time foster the type of thinking that prevents sections of our community from being able to feel and say quite proudly: 'I am an Australian'. They should be able to say this without having to conform to an Anglo-Saxon myth- and that is all it is- of what an Australian is supposed to be. The Canadians have an all-embracing term. They take a person's national origin and then apply the name of the country of adoption after it. A person is a French-Canadian, an Irish-Canadian, a ScottishCanadian and so on. I am not arguing all the pros and cons or merits and demerits of this issue. What I should like to say is that in Australia if one takes the national origin and couples it with the term of endearment that Australians use, it could hardly be printed in Hansard. 
Quite apart from the personal tragedies involved, our nation is the poorer for our attitudes. Instead of people of this ilk being more outgoing and mixing with their fellow citizens, they cling together. Often this is not entirely out of national pride. They are seeking some form of security that does not exist in the community at large, and more's the pity. Not only do we lose any contribution that they can make to the community from their different personalities but we could be missing out on the undeveloped talents that they are holding back because of a perfectly natural instinct to protect themselves from being hurt on racial grounds. I realise that education is the kernel of this issue and that there are several organisations in the community which are quite well aware that the only cure is education and conciliation. I will quote the relevant sections from comments made by three of those organisations. The Victorian Council of Churches Ecumenical Migration Centre has stated: 
Legislation is but the necessary first step. To be effective it needs the combined services of the educationist and the researcher. 
Each of the International Conventions on which the bills are based recognise the vital role of education. Parties, for example, to the International Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimination undertake to adopt immediate and effective measures, particularly in the fields of teaching, education, culture and information with a view to combating prejudices which tend to racial discrimination and to promoting understanding and tolerance'. (Article 7) 
At a 2-day conference held in Sydney in April 1974 the United National Association of Australia touched on the field of education and moved the following motion: 
That the widest possible educational and publicity campaign be undertaken and, in particular among disadvantaged sections of the population, with respect to the Human Rights Bill and the Racial Discrimination Bill, if and when enacted, and the Legal Aid Schemes. 
That motion was carried at that conference with one dissension. This year  Mr Walter  M. Lippmann, M.B.E., in an Australia Day address touched on education. He said: 
The most important challenge for the community relations program however lies in the field of education. 
I have already spoken of the importance of ethnic identification for many children caught in the no man's land of ambivalence between their home environment and that of their school still geared to the  assimilationists  ' goal of Angloconformity. 
Those organisations, together with a number of other organisations, will be delighted when they look at Part III of the Bill which deals with conciliation and educational standards. The existence of the Bill would offer security to people in the position I have outlined. It would help to eliminate man's inhumanity to man. It would give redress where redress is just and proper. What is most important, the educative steps proposed in the Bill would serve to diminish tensions and ameliorate problems. So long as the Bill is unambiguous it need not be offensive in any way. Franklin D. Roosevelt said: 'There has never been, there is not now, there never will be any race of people on earth fit to serve as master of his fellow man'. I think that thought is worth bearing in mind when we are considering the passage of legislation of this nature. I commend the Bill to the Senate. I sincerely hope that the Opposition's proposed amendments will serve to enhance the Bill and in no way water it down. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (9.12)- It is probably a very good idea that this Bill is moved from one position on the notice paper to another, up and down and around and about, because whoever is responsible, whether it is the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  or the Manager of Government Business in the Senate  (Senator Douglas McClelland),  at least it serves the purpose of diminishing the emotive terms with which various honourable senators have addressed themselves to the Bill. To that extent its movement on the notice paper, I think, is of some value. I am sorry that  Senator Button  is not here tonight. I understand that he is not very well. When he was speaking I interjected that I was involved in antiracism long before he embraced it. 1 think I owe a duty to myself, if not to my Senate colleagues, to illustrate in simple language, by 3 stories, the attitudes which I have taken, as a person, in the context of racism. I can remember as a young boy of seven or eight years of age, in about 1914 or 1915- somewhere about then- finding a little German migrant girl weeping near some bush. I stopped beside her and asked what was the matter. She could not speak English. Obviously she did not understand what I was talking about. The memory has remained with me ever since. She was alienated from the surroundings in which she found herself. The Great War was raging. People of German descent were not accepted. Obviously this atmosphere spilled over on to the child. She could feel the hostility. She could not communicate with other children. That is the first story. 
The second story relates to an event which occurred just after the War, when I was far more muscular and able physically than I am at present. I remember forcing one of Ansett 's buses to stop when it was travelling in western Victoria to throw off physically 2 young thugs who were attempting to ill-treat in one way or another 2 young Aborigines. These youthful or even middle age memories remain and condition one's attitudes, I suppose; so much so that in the early 1950s, when it was unfashionable to embrace the problem of the Australian Aborigines, I was able to persuade the Chief Secretary of Victoria, the late  Sir Arthur  Rylah, to set up a royal commission to examine the problem of the Australian Aborigines in the context of the society in which they found themselves. Notwithstanding the report of the royal commission and its acceptance by the Victorian Government, the impact and drive by the Victorian Government to try to change the situation of Aborigines in Victoria in the context of the society in which they found themselves were destroyed by all the egg-heads at the University of Melbourne who proceeded to get into the act. The problem that besets  Senator Cavanagh,  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, at present in relation to Aborigines is bedevilled to a major degree by the intellectual egg-heads at the universities and by the anthropologists because they cannot see the wood for the trees. They do not understand the social structure in which the problem exists. That has been the main thrust of some of the arguments raised, inferentially and directly, in the Senate tonight and on the 2 previous occasions that we have debated this Bill. 
I wrote on a piece of paper some of the observations that were made by 3 honourable senators on the Government side who addressed themselves with some vehemence to this problem. They have this fantastic belief that we can solve all social problems in the same way as the mediaeval Christian church attempted to solve problems- by an act of canonical law. Because we live in a materialistic society today rather than a religious society, the same urge exists to solve all the problems of racial discrimination of one sort of another, not by the canonical law but by statute of Parliament. It is not possible to solve the problems that relate to human nature by passing Acts of Parliament. Yet that has been the thrust of the arguments in support of this Bill. 
I remember  Senator Coleman,  for example, making a great speech. She attacked the whole problem of racial discrimination on the basis of sexualism that is to say, women are a deprived element in the community. No doubt they are. The problem in the city of Canberra, for example, will not be solved on the basis of the arguments that I have heard  Senator Coleman  advance. Racial discrimination against women as a sexual problem will not be remedied by passing laws.  Her  argument was that we could pass laws to solve the problem. As a matter of fact, most honourable senators know the story.  Senator Coleman  said that there should not be an exclusive bar for males in one of the Canberra hotels, notwithstanding that there are four other bars in the hotel, I understand, which she could frequent if she wished. There is one bar which the men regard- apparently the licensee of the hotel regards it in the same way- as a place which should be a male refuge. 

 Senator Button adverted to  Senator Coleman's  observations. He praised the Ontario Human Rights Code. I have taken the trouble to look up that Act. It is a very good Act, as he said. He did not say, for example, that in section 2(1) there is inserted an exception provision. I am dealing now with arguments put by women's lib organisations. The sub-section in the Ontario Act states: 
Sub-section 1 does not apply to prevent the barring of any person because of the sex of such person from any accommodation, services or facilities upon the ground of public decency. 
I deal now with  Senator Gietzelt  's speech. It was an emotive piece of mob oratory from its beginning to its end. He concluded by quoting a poem by  Mrs Walker  from Queensland. I have read the poem. If I had sent that poem to a newspaper with my signature at the bottom it would not have been published. I will not quote the story of Boswell and  Dr Johnson  on this because it would immediately arouse a little bit of enmity around the place, but the fact is that according to  Senator Gietzelt,  this has become a poem of some import apparently because  Mrs Walker  happens to belong to the Aboriginal race. Therefore it is a good poem. But if I had written it, because I belong to the European race it would have been a bad poem. 
I turn to what I regard as the most dreadful form of racial discrimination which came out inferentially in  Senator Button's  speech.  Senator Button  said that he believed in a multiracial society. If he wants to believe in a multiracial society, so what? What he forgets is that the majority of the Australian people do not want to have a multiracial society; they want to have a homogeneous society. As  Senator Sheil  has said, the problems in relation to racial discrimination in Australia exist to a large degree because we have tried to create a multiracial society at least based on some common ground of a European descent, which  Senator Mcintosh  appears to disregard. No wonder he left the Clydeside. 
I accept the declaration by the United Nations Organisation that there should be no discrimination in the terms in which the United Nations made this declaration. The propaganda which was distributed in Australia by the United Nations Organisation and which was mentioned by  Senator Mcintosh  states that the United Nations was unanimous on this declaration regarding racial discrimination; that all the people in the United Nations subscribe to this declaration without any demurrer. This is not true. I have here a list of the nations that have acceded to the United Nations International Convention for the Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimination. It is worth reading. Australia acceded to it. It was signed by  Sir Paul  Hasluck, representing Australia, in October 1966. We are in this present jam, to a large extent, because under questioning in the House of Representatives, on 2 occasions  Sir Paul  Hasluck said that the matter had been referred to the States for consideration because it was in the States where the common law existed. 
This Senate is now confronted with the problem of an inability of the States to accept their responsibility in this context. Although this matter remained on the agenda of the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General nothing was done about it. Finally, this present Government- for which I commend it- realised that Australia could not be isolated from the area of the United Nations and that something had to be done about it. One of the problems about this matter is that if we look at the Bill carefully we see that Australia's accession and ratification to this declaration will depend on the Senate passing this Bill. When we look at the nations of the United Nations which have acceded to this declaration we find that they have imposed all sorts of Reservations. 
I understand the problems of the Republic of India perfectly well. There it is, a great part of the sub-continent of Asia with some 450 million or 500 million people, wracked by racial, religious and caste discriminations, yet that country acceded to the Convention. But what did India do when it came to signing the Convention? I will tell honourable senators what it did. The Government of India declared that for reference of any dispute in the International Court of Justice, for decision in terms of article 22 of the International Convention for the Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimination, the consent of all parties to the dispute is necessary in each individual case. Do honourable senators know why India put in that reservation? I will tell them. India did that so that no one in the United Nations can take India to the International Court of Justice without its consent. India will not have the United Nations interfering with the internal arrangements in India as regards religion, caste, creed or anything else. 
Italy used about 2 columns to write its reservation about the Convention. Other countries which have submitted reservations to the Convention include Jamaica, Kuwait, Lebanon, the Libyan Arab Republic, Nepal, the Netherlands, Poland, Spain, Sweden, Romania, Tonga and then a clutch of communist countries. Even the United Kingdom has made reservations about the Convention. Finally, the United States throws the whole Convention out of the window and says: 'We will make our own arrangements in relation to racial discrimination on the grounds of religion, cast and colour'. What are we going to do? Have we any reservations about this Convention, because this is the matter that bedevils  Senator Wright?  Once we accede to this Convention without any reservations, under section 5 1 of the Australian Constitution we hand over in its entirety to the United Nations the capacity to interfere in Australia's internal arrangements without any demurrer on our part. We give the ground away, not on the basis that we are ashamed in any way, but simply on the argument that I first adduced, namely, that you cannot eliminate discrimination on the ground of religion, race, colour or anything else except if it is done by an educated society. 
If honourable senators have read the Melbourne 'Herald' this week they would know that in the Canadian Province of Ontario, which  Senator Button  praised as having a model statute of racial discrimination of one sort or another, there is more discrimination than in any of the other Canadian Provinces. Yet it has this model racial discrimination legislation which, as I mentioned earlier, carries this exception to protect  Senator Coleman  from affronts of one sort and another. The racial legislation in Canada has been praised by  Senator Button  and is held as a model for the Senate to follow. Yet a report in an Australian newspaper by, I understand, a well respected correspondent says that there are more racial problems in Canada than any other kind of problem. 
I asked an eminent Canadian in the Canadian House of Commons some months ago: 'How is the Indian problem in Canada?' He said: 'There is no Indian problem in Canada. Where did you hear about that?' I said: 'I have been reading a great deal about the Indian problem in Canada'.  His  answer may strengthen the heart of  Senator Cavanagh,  who is not in the chamber at present. He replied: 'There is no Indian problem in Canada; it is an industry'. The thrust of this Bill is to create a racial industry in Australia. This Bill will polarise racism in Australia. If honourable senators do not believe that assertion it would be a good idea for them to obtain a copy of the report of a select committee of the House of Commons in Great Britain which has been looking at the problem of racism in England. The main thrust of the report of that select committee is that the basic problem with regard to racism is in the area of housing. 
I have obtained a copy of a monograph by someone in the United Kingdom in relation to race relations. It is probably a bit out of date, but on page 128 it mentions the Race Relations Board in England. That board is the equivalent of the organisation proposed for Australia whose director-general, I understand from  Senator Greenwood  and other informants, will be quite a notable man who once served in another place,  Mr Grassby.  I am informed that he is the director-general designate. Observations were made by  Senator Gietzelt  about racial discrimination in the election which  Mr Grassby  lost. No one has ever discussed the racism that was involved in the election for the seat of Riverina when  Mr Grassby  won. The monograph which I have mentioned, referring to the Race Relations Board in England, states: 
In 1970-71, the Board and its conciliation committees investigated 40 complaints with regard to privately rented accommodation. 
This has happened in a country with a population of 53 million. I notice that  Senator Mcintosh  has left the chamber. The report continues: 
In 18 cases, it was decided that there had been  discrimination.  Twenty-two complaints in the sale of houses were investigated and discrimination found in 3 cases . . . The Race Relations Act seems to have been effective in reducing discrimination in public houses. 

 Senator Coleman would be happy about that. The report continues: 
In 1970-71, the Board and its committees found 23 such cases, in twenty-two of which conciliation was successful. 
We are not arguing against conciliation. The population of the United Kingdom is involved in racial discrimination to an infinitely more emphatic degree than the population of this country. The Race Relations Board and its committees found 23 cases of racial discrimination concerning public houses in 1970-71 and in twenty-two of those cases conciliation was successful. I do not intend to go through the whole of this book. All I am saying is that there is racial discrimination in Australia. We on this side acknowledge this fact. To a large degree I have been fighting against it in a personal sense most of my adult life. The Opposition supports the thrust of this Bill. But its essential empire building projection, which in a substantial way, I understand, comes from the fair hand of  Mr Grassby,  will not succeed in solving the racial problems in Australia. 
The report of the select committee of the House of Commons in Great Britain- it is the third of such reports- found that the causes of discrimination were other than colour, caste and creed. It has been forecast that some amendments will be made to this Bill. I support the Bill. It will not solve the problem of racial discrimination as referred to in the United Nations Convention. I think that any government requires at least two lines of attack on this problem. First of all it must tackle the problem of racial discrimination at its base.  Senator Mcintosh  has referred to the young Australian tennis player. I suppose that  Senator Cavanagh  would not disagree that she was alienated from the community because she was part of a submerged culture. I do not say that in any disagreeable sense. I give  Senator Cavanagh  full marks for his attempt to do something in relation to Australian Aborigines. It is a racial discrimination problem in which he is involved. The objective is to try to bring the indigenous Australian people up in social terms.  Senator Cavanagh  is attempting to cut out the root cause of the problem. This is a different area altogether from that into which  Mr Grassby  is projecting himself. Work in it will probably begin to solve the problem of racial discrimination. But it will not be done to any major degree by creating a statute which provides for an inquisitor whose job it is to frame people. This could lead to ludicrous circumstances. 
I mention one as an example because I can see with great clarity the possibility of it happening in Australia. A Pakistani in London applied to be a member of a Welsh Rugby Union club which was a society exclusively for Welsh people who lived in England and were fond of Rugby Union. I am damned if I know why anybody should be fond of Rugby Union. I know that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson is fond of it and that a few New South Wales people round here seem to be fond of it. I cannot see any sense in it, but the Welsh find a lot of comfort in it. 
Because we are committed internationally to try to solve this problem, I believe we must introduce a racial discrimination statute onto the Australian statute books. But I do not agree with the Bill which has been presented to the Parliament. This Bill must be subjected to the scrutiny of the Senate in the Committee stage. It must be scrutinised very carefully because there are more mantraps in this Bill at present than the wit of man has ever devised, not because of malice but because of ignorance. I support the second reading of this Bill but I give notice to honourable senators that I will argue to the limit of my capacity in the Committee stage that some of the more wrongly drafted elements should be thoroughly amended. In principle, I support the Bill. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs been drawn to a recent statement by  Mrs Lorna  Hume, the Manager of the Western Australian Aboriginal Advancement Council, regarding criticism of the Australian Government by the Western Australian Minister for Housing,  Mr O'Neil?  Will the Minister advise the Senate whether the Australian Government can take any action to improve the homemaking service that  Mrs Hume  has asked the State Government to set up? 
Would the Minister for Social Security advise the Senate whether there is any evidence to support any suggestion  that there is an abuse of Medibank by either doctors or patients? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Agriculture. In view of the continuing threat of foot and mouth disease to Australia's cattle industry, will the Minister indicate whether anything is being done to combat the disease in countries geographically close to Australia? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Police and Customs. Did the Minister note the statement by the Leader of the Liberal Party that if his Party were in Government it would reduce expenditure this year by abolishing the Australia Police? What opportunity exists for reductions in expenditure in this area? 
I rise to support the Budget and to commend the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  for bringing down a good and well thought out Budget. The Budget is neither cruel nor unfair. It protects the lower paid bracket, the large families, the pensioners, the sick and the disabled. The Government has a duty to protect and we are protecting against inflation those who are hurt most. There is nothing new about inflation. It is an inborn sickness of a laissez faire economic system that we inherited. We did not invent it; we inherited it. We will do all we can to make sure that those needing protection most in this laissez faire system will be protected. 
We are not back in the Menzies era when that gentleman promised to put value back into the pound and inflation rose from 8.4 per cent to 22.5 per cent. There was no protection in those days for those on a lower income or those on a fixed income. There was no Medibank; pensions were nothing but a miserable pittance. There was very little assistance towards education; and housing could not have been at a lower ebb. I have no doubt that we will pull out of this world wide recession without losing the ground in the field of social security that was gained after 23 years of neglect. 
Quite frankly I am sick of looking at the crocodile tears of the Opposition. That is what they are; they are only crocodile tears. When Opposition supporters start talking about sections of our community they should hang their heads in shame. For 23 years they sat on this side of the chamber and they never lifted a finger to do anything about the deterioration in social security in this country. Not one finger did they lift to try to stop it. Now they have the gall to say that this is a terrible Budget. It is high time that Opposition senators got out on to the hustings to ask pensioners whether they are prepared to turn the clock back 3 years; to ask the workers whether they are prepared to turn the clock back 3 years to the conditions they had then; and to ask the workers whether they are prepared to turn the education assistance program back 3 years. Why do not Opposition senators wake up to themselves and realise that they are not born to rule? They have to earn the right to rule and I do not think they have earned it. 
Let us look at one or two of the achievements that show that we have earned the right to the confidence of the people of Australia. We have increased social security benefits at a very fast rate. We have abolished the means test for people over 70 years of age. The single rate pension for invalid and aged widows has been increased by 80 per cent between 1972 and June 1975. The married rate has increased by 74 per cent from $34.50 to $60 a week. During the same period weekly earnings increased only 52 per cent, as  Senator Carrick  said. He was quite right when he said that they rose by only 52 per cent but he neglected to tell the Senate that the consumer price index increased by only 41 per cent. Former class B widows have had an increase of 1 10 per cent and we have brought in supporting mothers' benefits. Payments for children dependent on pensioners, on the unemployed and on the sick have been increased significantly. Parents of handicapped children now receive $10 a week. 
When talking about the confidence of the public, who could have confidence in the FraserLynch alternative budget and the ideas of those gentlemen as to how to save government moneys? Let us have a look at some of them. In his earlier statement  Mr Fraser  said that the Government could halve the $2.8 billion deficit by not going ahead with Medibank at a cost of $ 1 .4 billion. That completely ignores the fact that between $900m and $ 1,000m would still need to be spent this year under the old private health insurance system.  Mr Fraser  claims that he would save $75m by zero Public Service growth. The only way in which he could cut the growth of the Public Service any more than the Government has done would be to break contracts and to lay off staff. He spoke of an estimated saving of $75m from a cut in the Treasurer's Advance. That is a contingency sum and is not included in the Budget.  Mr Fraser  said that he would save by abolishing the proposed Overseas Trading Corporation but there is no provision for the Corporation in the Budget. He said that he would wind back the National Capital Development Commission works but the Government has already done that.  Mr Fraser  obviously has not thought out his alternative budgetary measures. The savings that he specified do not add up to $ 1 billion as he claimed. 
Let us explore the hypocrisy of the Opposition's attitude to the increases in indirect taxation. In this chamber the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  bemoaned these increases as inconvenient, inequitable or disastrous according to one's income level. He said that the Government wished to drag everyone down to the lowest common denominator. He had the temerity to ask whether these increases meant social justice and equity. That attitude coming from a party which has always sought and is still seeking to advantage the wealthy at the expense of the needy leaves me completely dazed. 
The Leader of the Opposition in another place  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  took a similar attitude. Yet within days of his speech he conceded that for present planning purposes the indirect taxes were not touched. So the truth is out. The Opposition will retain the increases of indirect taxation. Yet their spokesman fulminated against the Government in the classic manner of putting a two bob each-way bet on it. There is no point in my going on any further with the Fraser-Lynch budget. I think it is just one huge joke. But it does serve to show the soundness of the Hayden Budget. 
Any kind of joke you like. It is just one huge joke. The Opposition is trying to make a mockery of the Parliament by dishing up a whole pile of figures that it is not willing to substantiate or to defend. I reckon that we should be most grateful for this Fraser-Lynch Budget because it shows the soundness of the Hayden Budget. One aspect of  Mr Hayden's  budget is in line with American thinking. I quote from a background paper relating to America: 
Leading administration spokesmen such as Treasury Secretary William Simon and Whitehouse economic advisor Alan Greenspan have been saying for months that they support a moderate rate of recovery- 
Is this not what  Mr Hayden  is doing?  that will protect the country from a new round of inflation. 
Administration spokesmen argue that if the Government were to rush strong stimulative medicine to the economy at this time, the result would be a new bout of inflationary sickness and unemployment that would be even more severe than that during the past eighteeen months. 
I suggest that if we followed the FraserLynchLynch, not L-i-n-c-h- line I am quite sure that we would land in the mess as outlined by the American economist. I support the Hayden Budget and commend to the Senate a real and true Treasury Budget. 
-Can the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation advise the Senate of the position with regard to claims for compensation as a result of the damage caused by cyclone Tracy? 
I direct my question to the Postmaster-General. Is he aware that several days ago I rang Superintendent Daniels at the Western Australian police headquarters in Perth and found that at 1 5 second intervals there was a beep tone which, according to the Postal Department's manual, indicates that the conversation is being recorded? Is it a fact that telephones used by Western Australian police officers are subject to interception and, if so, how many, at whose request and on whose authority? 
My question follows on from a question I asked of the PostmasterGeneral yesterday. I direct my question now to the Acting Attorney-General. In view of the fact that recording devices are attached to telephones in the Western Australia Police Department, and I daresay other departments, what protection has an individual caller, or for that matter an officer, when such officers have no power to control devices installed by their superiors? Does this constitute a breach of civil liberties? If so, what is the Attorney-General prepared to do to rectify the situation? 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State. I refer to the Minister's announcement last Saturday, 27 September, that he had invited 7 members of the Cocos community, including the 3 longest serving headmen, to serve on the newly established Interim Advisory Council to advise the Administrator and the Government. I also refer to the Minister's announcement that he had invited 2 members of the Cocos community to provide secretariat services to the Council. Have  Mr Clunies  Ross and the Cocos community been informed of the Minister's announcement? 
-Can the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation say whether the insurance companies were telling the truth in their advertising campaign against the establishment of the Australian Government Insurance Corportion when they said that 'investment by insurance companies promotes growth and expansion in industry and commerce and results in increased employment'? 
I direct my question to the Special Minister of State. Is it a fact that some critics of the Prices Justification Tribunal claim that it has had no noticeable influence on prices and others accuse it of damaging business confidence by keeping prices too low? Can the Minister say what influence, if any, the Prices Justification Tribunal has had upon the level of prices charged by companies? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. Since the Government agreed to provide the Australian Wheat Board with cash discounting facilities the Board has arranged one discounting service to wheat growers to enable an early payment of money due in the future. Will the Wheat Board continue this service for those who want it? 
-Has the Minister for Police and Customs seen reports in today's Press that popular singer, John Denver, upon his arrival in Sydney talked freely with the Press about his use of marihuana? Can he advise the Senate whether  Mr Denver  carried marihuana into Australia upon his arrival here? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to an article in yesterday's  Daily Telegraph  quoting a report by the Victorian Employers Federation which has suggested that Australia's 300 000 unemployed are costing the taxpayers nearly $1 lm a week? 
I present the following petition from 1 52 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we strongly oppose any violation and interference in Portuguese East Timor by the Indonesian Government and we urge the Australian Government to extend its humanitarian aid to the East Timorese People and prevail upon the Indonesian Government not to interfere with the domestic problems ofPortuguese East Timor. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Has the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation seen a letter which was published in yesterday's  West Australian  from a member of the Liberal Party who expressed regret at  Mr Fraser  's apparent 'bending' to expediency and to pressures from within business circles to refuse Supply and bring on an early Federal election? Has the Minister any evidence to suggest that the pressures from business circles on the Opposition Leader are coming from the private insurance companies? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the policy of the insurance companies of slashing social welfare expenditure is also being adopted by the Opposition? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence: Can he inform me of the current position in regard to the proposal to establish a base in north-west Australia? Does the Government intend to go ahead with this proposal? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the considerable publicity given to the student demonstrations against Tun Abdul Razak, can the Minister tell the Senate what is the Government's attitude to those demonstrations? 
I present the following petition from 34 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully, showeth: 
That we are fearful that any further delay by the Senate of the Loan Bill and Appropriation Bills will bring Australia into a constitutional, economic and social crisis, leaving indelible scars on our democratic institutions. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should proceed forthwith to allow passage of these Bills so that the government, legitimately formed by a majority of the members of the peoples' House (the House of- Representatives) may proceed with its administration without further disruption. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask that the petition be read. (The petition being read by the  Clerk)- 
No reference shall be made in a Petition to any Debate in Parliament of the same Session. 
The prohibition is against referring to the actual debate or part of the debate in relation to the same matter, and I submit that none of these petitions refers to the debate. The petitions refer simply to the Bill, and as other honourable senators have said, the Family Law Bill was for months the subject of petitions, the majority of them, I imagine, emanating from the Opposition side. 

 Opposition senators interjecting- 

These Bills have been returned to the Senate because the amendment carried by the Opposition is unacceptable to the House of Representativesthe people's House. And rightly so. I reckon it would be about the most irresponsible amendment that ever came out of this Senate. The House of Representatives- the people's House; the only House that can form a government to run this country- has been handed an amendment to the Appropriation Bill that would be the absolute pinnacle of obstruction. This House is getting the name of being a House of obstruction. Two or three of the honourable senators on the opposite side have bragged quite openly that 22 Bills have been rejected and that therefore the Government has the grounds to call for a double dissolution. There is nothing to be proud about in the rejection of those Bills. One Bill that comes to my mind is the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. This Bill, by the way, was to facilitate the amalgamation of trade unions. The trade union movement was in agreement with amalgamation; the Employers' Federation was in agreement with amalgamation; and indeed a number of the Opposition senators agreed to amalgamation in principle. The Opposition had the numbers and the power to take this Bill into Committee and amend it in any way it saw fit. But it decided to obstruct and not even take the Bill any further. It just disregarded the Bill. It even rejected a move by the Government to impose a levy to pay for Medibank. 
The position today is that the Opposition has decided that, if it were to get to the Government benches, it would introduce a levy to pay for Medibank. The Opposition hides behind the letter of the law. It claims that its actions are lawful and proper. I am not qualified to go into the finer points of law and, indeed, I do not intend to do so. That is not the way the people of Australia will judge our actions. However, I do know that should anyone care to enforce a number of laws and Acts in Australia, particularly in the Australian Capital Territory, he would be held up to ridicule by the nation. For example, we have the Gambling Act of 1739, the Witchcraft Act of 1735 and the Murder Act of 175 1. This last Act provides the death penalty for anyone who saves a murderer. Anyone found with his face blackened or wearing felt or other slippers or otherwise disguised can be prosecuted in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Yes. A lot of people go around in disguise. In the United Kingdom the death penalty is provided for stealing sheep. The United Kingdom has a law to prevent anyone leaving the district on a Sunday. Surely it would be the height of irresponsibility for one to enforce these laws. One of the reasons that nobody would be so stupid as to try to enforce the letter of such laws- quite apart from insulting the intelligence of the people- is that one would not be prepared to reap the wrath or the indignation of the people. I believe that the Opposition, by its actions of blocking Supply and hiding behind what it claims to be a lawful and proper exercise, is inviting the wrath of the people. It is the height of irresponsibility for the Senate to demand an election of the people's House just because it feels that the popularity poll is in the Opposition's favour. It is of no use the Opposition saying anything else. That is exactly what it feels. 
The Opposition props up a leader at the behest of  Mr Anthony.  It is  Mr Anthony  who goads the Opposition on. Whenever the Opposition thinks that its new leader has hit the top of the hit parade it tries for another election. The truth of the matter is that the Opposition thought it could see in  Mr Khemlani  another Petrov. It has fallen flat on its face. The trouble is that the Opposition does not have a Bob Menzies to pull the wool over the eyes of the people. The Opposition has ended up catching a tiger by the tail. I think that if I were a member of the Opposition 1 would hang my head in shame. Not only has the Opposition blotted its copy book but also it has written the blackest page in Australia's political history. To say that the Opposition's action is a proper and lawful exercise is bad argument. This has been demonstrated by people in all cities. Today 1 received a letter from the Methodist Church of Australasia. I think it is worth reading. I believe most honourable senators have received this letter. 
-All honourable senators got one. I still think it is worth reading. 
When  Senator Jessop  gets the floor he can say that. 
Thank you. I hope  Hansard  recorded that interjection. The letter states: 
At the meeting of the South Australia Methodist Conference of Australasia held on October 23, the following resolution was passed- 
That is too bad. I ask the honourable senator to take some notice of it. The letter continues: 
That the following message be sent to the GovernorGeneral and all Federal parliamentarians. 
The South Australian Methodist Conference meeting in Adelaide and comprising men and women of differing political party sympathies, believes that there are times when matters of principle and national well-being must clearly be put above party loyalty. 
As a Conference we could not give, nor be expected to give unqualified endorsement to the performance of the Government. There is much which gives cause for disquiet. 
-Yes. The letter goes on: 
Some of us would sympathise with the Opposition's claim regarding the incompetence of the Government . . . 
The 'some of us' would be the left wing to which  Senator Jessop  referred, I suppose. The letter continues: 
We believe, that to seek electoral change at this time by using the power of the Senate to effectively block supply is to use that power in a way which threatens the future of stable government in this nation, and bring great hardship upon many people. 
We would therefore earnestly plead with all Senators, and especially those from South Australia not to block supply. A strong and responsible decision on your part not to pursue such a course would not only afford a solution to the impasse which threatens our nation, but could only enhance your standing within the Church, the Parliament, and the Community. 
I hope  Senator Jessop  takes note. 

 - Mr K. D. Seaman,  President  of the Conference.  Mr President,  I seek leave to have the letter incorporated in Hansard. 
METHODIST CHURCH OF AUSTRALASIA SOUTH AUSTRALIA CONFERENCE 
24 October 1975 

 Senator G. D. Mcintosh, 
Parliament House, 
CANBERRA. A.C.T. 2600 
Dear  Senator Mcintosh, 
At the meeting of the South Australian Methodist Conference of Australasia held on 23 October the following resolution was passed: 
That the following message be sent to the GovernorGeneral and all Federal parliamentarians. 
The South Australia Methodist Conference meeting in Adelaide and comprising men and women of differing political party sympathies, believes that there are times when matters of principle and national well-being must clearly be put above party loyalty. 
As a Conference we could not give, nor be expected to give unqualified endorsement to the performance of the Government. There is much which gives cause for disquiet. Some of us would sympathise with the Opposition 's claim regarding the incompetence of the Government, and given opportunity would doubtless be pleased to see a change in Government. 
We believe, that to seek electoral change at this time by using the power of the Senate to effectively block supply is to use that power in a way which threatens the future of stable government in this nation, and bring great hardship upon many people. 
We would therefore earnestly plead with all Senators, and especially those from South Australia not to block supply. A strong and responsible decision on your part not to pursue such a course would not only afford a solution to the impasse which threatens our nation, but could only enhance your standing within the Church, the Parliament, and the Community. 
We assure you, and all the Members of the Parliament, of our genuine concern and interest and of our continuing  goodwill and prayerful support at this time, and at all times, as you seek to fulfil the responsible duties which are yours. ' 
The resolution was carried 144 for/41 against. 
Yours faithfully, 
D. SEAMAN 
President of the Conference 
K. WATERS 
Secretary of the Conference 
-Mal Fraser, the Leader of the minority Party in the House of Representatives, has, at the behest of  Mr Anthony,  instructed the Liberal-Country Party Opposition to block Supply and to try to force the democratically elected Government to the polls. This is a sheer abuse of the power which the Opposition thinks it can use at a whim. If the Opposition were more attuned to the realities of life and less to its lust for power, it would realise that the use of that power is resented by the people of Australia. Doug Anthony has put Liberal leader after Liberal leader up for political sacrifice to gain his own. ends. I do not think members of the Liberal Party have woken up to that yet. But Anthony is an honourable man and Liberal senators are honourable senators. As long as the Opposition thinks it has the letter of the law to hide behind, the shrewd boy, the smart politician, the one who keeps putting the Liberal leaders' heads on the chopping block still rules supreme. He still survives. 
-I may have the Shakesperian names mixed up but the characters are right. I sincerely hope that the actions of the Senate will not cause violence in the streets of our cities. I believe it is cold comfort to be able to say that our actions are lawful and proper. Of course, the Opposition senators are honourable senators. I have one word of gratitude for the Opposition. Its irresponsible actions over the last 2 or 3 weeks have welded the Australian Labor Party into one good fighting machine. As a matter of fact, the Opposition has taken from the benches of office an arrogance and resentment of the people who now occupy the Government benches in this chamber. Unfortunately, one or two of our members have been almost apologetic about occupying those benches. But now the Opposition has given them a dignity of office. For that I thank the Opposition. When the Senate uses its executive powers to dictate to a democratically elected government, then we can say that the principles embodied in a free constitution are irrevocably lost. I appeal to the Opposition to study the situation and to pass these Bills. I commend the Bills to the House. 
-I ask the Special Minister of State a question about the Royal Commission on Alleged Payments to Maritime Unions. I am aware that the Royal Commissioner,  Mr Justice  Sweeney, presented an interim report which dealt with payments and demands by maritime unions on foreign vessels entering into the Australian coastal trade under permit. In that report,  Mr Justice  Sweeney indicated that the Royal Commission would go on to examine demands and payments in respect of certain work claimed to be that of shore labour being performed by ships' crews. I ask the Minister: What progress has been made on this subsequent inquiry and when can the Commissioner's report be expected? 
I would like to add my support to the remarks made by  Senator Wood  on the report and point out to the Senate that the delegation was very fortunate to have had the opportunity to visit the north-east province of Thailand where we were able to get into proper perspective the many problems of provincial civil administration of refugees in that area. I think Australia has much to be proud of in respect of its agricultural aid programs in Thailand and the Philippines. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I direct a question to the Postmaster-General. What action has been taken by the Australian Telecommunications Commission to improve communications between Western Australia and the eastern States? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Was there any mention between him, as the caretaker Attorney-General and the Prime Minister, prior to 22 December of published allegations against the honourable member for Curtin,  Mr Garland? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. Is the Minister able to refute a recent Press statement which claimed that the Liberal Party has scrapped its long-standing promise to abolish the means test on persions within 3 years? Will the Minister give an asurance to the age pensioners of Australia that the Government will honour its promise to abolish the means test within the next 3 years? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware that 7300 people in Australia are National Employment and Training Scheme trainees? Is he aware also that the NEAT scheme began in 1974 to give unemployed redundant and retrenched people a chance to develop new work skills to make it easier for them to get work in new fields? Will the Minister inform the Senate how many of the 7300 people presently receiving NEAT allowances will have their $96 per week allowance cut to $23.40 per week? How many of these people are women and how many will now be forced to leave their NEAT training? Finally, will the Minister say whether the present Government considers it essential to develop new work skills for people made redundant and people who have been retrenched? If it does, will he inform the Senate how this is to be done? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. In view of the Minister's reply to a question asked in another place about cigarette and tobacco advertising and the proposed uniform legislation to ban such advertising, could the Minister explain to the Senate how she reconciles such action with subsidies given to the tobacco growing industry? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware that handicapped exservicemen, war widows and ex-regular servicemen have been receiving training under the National Employment and Training scheme? Is he further aware that there is no longer a repatriation training scheme as this was transferred into the NEAT scheme some time ago? Does the Minister know that many veterans and their families are now gravely concerned about the cuts in the NEAT scheme? Can the Minister tell the Senate whether the Government will give special concessions to veterans and war widows who will have their NEAT scheme benefits cut back on 1 April? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General, relates to the Australian Legal Aid Office and the new level of disposable income above which a citizen will not be eligible for legal aid. I ask: Under the new guidelines will a dependent wife be eligible for legal aid in a matter involving advice about, or assistance with, legal proceedings against her husband? 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, concerns the Minster's recommendations to alter the Family Law Act. I preface my question with the observation that in theory it may be worth while to insist that each man be responsible for his own actions, but I observe further that in practice this does not happen. I ask: Is the Minister aware that there is a great deal of evidence, empirical evidence, to show that deserting husbands do not meet or keep up with large maintenance orders? Is the Minister further aware that the Family Law Act amendment she has suggested is considered by many professional welfare workers to be inhumane? Will the Minister tell the deserted women and children in Australia why she felt it necessary to return them to the Draconian preFamily Law Act times? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, by saying that the Minister for Health said on 8 April in another place, in reply to a question on notice, that the Commonwealth Government had decided to reduce by 10 per cent the proportion of its contribution to the school dental scheme. I ask the Minister: Has the Minister for Health discussed this reduction with the State Ministers? If so, has there been any opposition from the State Ministers to the cuts? Is the Minister aware that in Western Australia alone the State Government will have to find $400,000 to maintain the scheme? Is the Minister aware that the harsh decision will result in hardships for thousands of Australian families? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware that laxative drugs are no longer available as pharmaceutical benefits for pensioners and that this means that all laxatives have been removed from the free list for pensioners? Will the Minister reconsider this decision because thousands of pensioners are now faced with the added financial burden of paying the full cost of these expensive drugs? Can the Minister explain why the infirm and the elderly who over many years have become reliant on these drugs are now forced to pay for them? 
-Is the Minister for Science aware of the need for a very limited program of scientific drilling on the Great Barrier Reef? Does the Minister agree that such a program will lead to a greater understanding of the Great Barrier Reef and hence aid in its preservation? Does the Minister believe that such a program should be planned jointly by the Institute of Marine Science and pertinent departments within the James Cook University of northern Queensland? Will the Minister recommend finance for such programs for the coming financial year before the Barrier Reef is further destroyed by various interests? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Will the Minister confirm whether it is true that there has been a complete embargo on capital expenditure for the financial year 1976-77 for both independent and State schools? 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I preface it by reminding the Government of its tight-fisted monetary policy which has resulted in the abolition of committees, some of which incurred expenses of less than $100,000 per annum. In the light of this, how can the Minister justify his Government's proposed legislation for control by the Australian Electoral Office of secret ballots in unions and employer organisations, which will cost in excess of $ 1 .5m a year? 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Social Security relates to the national compensation scheme. Is it true that the recent meeting between the Minister and State Ministers was a flop because the Minister had no national compensation scheme to consider? Does the Minister agree that there is an urgent need for such a scheme? Will she say whether she has a scheme to be considered or have her promises about an impending scheme been window dressing to pacify the growing unrest among State governments and others who are gravely concerned about the soaring costs of compensation schemes in Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Child Care Matters. Will the Minister inform the Senate whether recent reports claiming that the Government is to slash child care funds are true? Can the Minister say whether the Government will appoint permanent commissioners to the Childrens Commission? Has the Government any commitment to the thousands of Australian families who desperately need child care? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. Is it true that Cabinet decided last February that the Australian Assistance Plan is to be disbanded? If the Government is to scrap the AAP, would the Minister agree that the cost of holding conferences for State Ministers, regional officers, local councillors and others is a waste of government money? When will the Minister inform those still actively working on the AAP that the 37 regional councils will no longer be financed or supported by the Government? 
-Is the Minister for Science aware of the desirability of having at least one one million volt electron microscope in this country? Is he aware that many aspects of scientific research particularly in the fields of material science and mineral chemistry are greatly hindered without access to such an instrument in Australia? Will he undertake to make available the funding required for a one million electron microscope? 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) Is there need for a very limited program of scientific drilling on the Great Barrier Reef; if so, would such a program lead to a greater understanding of the Reef, and thus aid in its preservation. 
Does the Minister agree that such a program should be planned jointly by the Institute of Marine Science and pertinent departments within James Cook University of North Queensland. 
Will the Minister recommend finance for such a program for the coming financial year before the Reef is further destroyed. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Is it a fact that she announced in Darwin that the Social Policy Planning Units would cease to receive Commonwealth funding in 4 weeks' time? Why was this program, costing only a modest amount, not phased out over a year as is the Australian Assistance Plan, allowing staff a reasonable time to wind down operations and to find suitable employment rather than pushing them out at such short notice? 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Will the Minister undertake to make available the funding required for a million volt electron microscope for use in the many aspects of scientific research, particularly in the fields of material science and mineral chemistry since such research is greatly hindered because of the lack of access to such an instrument in Australia. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security whether the Government has received the second report of the Hancock Committee on national superannuation? If not, when does it expect to have it? Will the Government then table the report for public discussion as did the Labor Government in 1 974? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, by reminding him that at present the Darwin Employment Bureau has only one acting vocational guidance officer working in the Aboriginal employment section. Will the Minister take appropriate action to ensure that the Darwin Employment Bureau will not suffer from further financial cutbacks? Will the Minister initiate action to ensure that those Aborigines living on isolated settlements in the Northern Territory, especially where unemployment is most ciritical, are visited regularly by the vocational officers? 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, follows on the question asked by  Senator Georges  earlier on. Is it true that this Government was responsible for the confiscation of a radio transmitter in Darwin and that this radio transmitter was the only means of communication between the Fretilin forces in East Timor and the outside world? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation. I refer to the Minister's recent statement that an amount of $2.2m will be saved by admitting repatriation patients to nondepartmental hospitals as hospital service patients. How is that $2.2m to be saved? Does the saving mean that the States will now have to bear half the costs of the patients when they are in State hospitals? If so, have the States been advised that they are now financially responsible for the repatriation cases? What has been the response of the States to the transfer of financial responsibility? 
I suspect the motives behind this legislation. The Government has decided that substantial voting in union elections is necessary. So not only is it going to make it a moral and social obligation but also a legal obligation on organisations such as trade unions. I believe it would be more fitting for it to look closely at some of the local government organisations to see how democratically they are run. The Government hides behind the guise of democratising the unions. The truth of the matter is that the Government objects to one or two leaders in the trade union movement and has hit upon a marvellous plan to remove those leaders. It can try any way it likes to interfere with the trade union movement, whether through penal clauses, fines, or rules and regulations, but it will never break the spirit of the trade union movement because the trade union movement was working for its members long before this 76-year-old Parliament started and will continue to operate for many years to come. 
In respect of fines, I remember the thousands of dollars it cost my trade union, the Amalgamated Engineering Union, which eventually became the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, in fines. I can remember the rumblings among the rank and file which were reflected by the shop stewards in the quarterly meetings. They were beginning to object to these fines and would continue to object to them. Eventually we said: 'This is the end of the penny section. You have had it. We are paying no more fines'. And that was the situation before the Government was changed in 1972. That was the feeling in the rank and file ofthe trade union movement. 
We have had our share of court controlled ballots and at the same time we ran our own ballots as a check in the Amalgamated Engineering Union. We had court controlled ballots for Brother Horsburgh, Brother Hennessy, Brother Garland and somebody else and the check ballot was run side by side. 
The ballots differed on only one thing and that was the number of people who voted. There was no other difference in the results. There was never any suggestion that 2 per cent forced their will on the other 98 per cent, as  Senator Scott  implied when he was speaking earlier about there being something untoward.  Senator Carrick  said that there was something far wrong. If he thinks there is something far wrong let him put his finger on it, but do not imply it. We had a ballot in Western Australia for Brother Stewart and Brother Marks. Brother Stewart was as right wing as they come- I do not want to be disrespectful- and Brother Marks was as left wing as you make them. Brother Stewart won that court controlled ballot. Again we ran a check ballot side by side and he deserved to win. However, after being in office for 3 years he proved how unworthy he was and he was dumped. He was dumped not in a court controlled ballot but in an ordinary ballot. Stewart then took the matter to court and challenged the ballot. He decided that there were irregularities in the ballot. The matter was defended in the courts. Brother Garland was the person who defended the case. The lawyer was a person called Ian Viner, who is now the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in the House of Representatives. He won the case. There was nothing crook in the ballot. Those people who are eligible to vote can do so if they wish to. The possibility is always there if they wish to use it. The non-voters in the union tacitly agree to accept the verdict of the voter as to the representation and, consequently, the policies on the strict understanding that the channels are kept open. They may exercise that vote if they feel there is the necessity as they have done in many other ballots. The non-voter accepts the situation as it is. There is nothing crooked and nothing untoward about such ballots. 
I object to the innuendos which have gone around the chamber about the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. I ask honourable senators to prove those innuendos. I say to them: 'Put your money where your mouth is'. Honourable senators are talking about tradesmen. I challenge any honourable senator on the Government side to tell me what is the going rate for a fitter and turner. 
-About 50 per cent time! That is a real smart alec answer, something we could expect from the Minister for Science. The award rate for a fitter and turner is $134.80- a real big deal. What does it cost to travel backwards and forwards to work?  Senator Messner  talked about the bank union. I do not know what kind of union principles he learnt there. A toolmaker gets $141.40 a week- a real big deal. He is working to very fine measurements. He may be working on an optical flat to 5 millionths of an inch. Yesterday we were talking about the medical profession and the wonderful hands the surgeons have. Honourable senators spoke about how they got the cornea off a person's eye; how they could cut in with an instrument and remove the cornea. But I ask: Who makes the instrument? It is the bloke on 141 bucks a week. This is the person honourable senators opposite are trying to hold down. 
We talk about industrial relations. This is a wonderful way to get industrial relations. I ask honourable senators to think about it. Industrial relations are two wonderful words. We can conjure up all sorts of pictures. I wonder what pictures have been conjured up in the minds of honourable senators on the Government benches when they think about industrial relations. The employer's attitude to industrial relations, from a trade unionist's point of view, would be a way of keeping harmony in industry so that the boss can get on with the business of making profits. The unionist's attitude as the employer sees it is this: Whatever industrial relations are I do not know, but I am against it in any case. So never the twain shall meet. Until this Government or some other government really gets down to the business of doing something about industrial relations and introducing some form of worker participation we will never get harmony in the community. All the rules and regulations which the Government continually brings in do not mean a damn thing to the trade unionist. He could not care less because once he finds that it is between him and his principles he will fight like a Kilkenny cat. I warn honourable senators on the Government side. The unions do not have to be parties to the arbitration system. They can pull out. Honourable senators should be careful that they are not sounding the death knell of the arbitration system. They could quite possibly be doing that. With these few remarks I oppose the whole blooming Bill and not just the last part. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. On 9 May 1 976  Senator Guilfoyle  stated that the primary objective of national compensation was to establish a right of long term income security benefits for wage earners who, because of injury or sickness, had either lost or had reduced their capacity to earn. What measures are being considered to provide equity to ensure that persons providing services without pay in the communityespecially housewives providing child carehave the right to the long term security of knowing that their children will not be disadvantaged should they be injured or sick? 
-Is the Minister for Social Security aware of the anomaly in the present conditions of eligibility for sickness benefit? I refer to the fact that under section 1 10 of the Social Security Act sickness benefit for a man can be paid irrespective of his wife's income but that sickness benefit is not payable to a wife if it is reasonably possible for her husband to maintain her. Since the conditions of eligibility for sickness benefit differ from the conditions of eligibility for unemployment benefit without any apparent logical reason, will the Minister consider removing this anomaly from the Social Security Act? 
I support  Senator Douglas  McClelland 's motion on the Cocos (Keeling) Islands lands acquisition ordinance. I do so because the Government has not revealed any policy whatsoever to deal with the situation in the Cocos (Keeling) Islands and it does not seem to be making any moves at all to rectify the feudal system that exists there. We heard something from  Senator Withers  about rights and liberties. There are also the rights and liberties of the people who are living on the Cocos (Keeling) Islands as well as those of Clunies Ross. These people are anxiously looking towards this Government to see what it is prepared to do about the situation on the Islands. 
We heard  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack say that he witnessed something for the first time, namely the opposition against this ordinance. We have witnessed a lot of 'first times' in this Parliament. We witnessed for the first time something that happened in New South Wales; we witnessed for the first time something that happened in Queensland; and we witnessed for the first time something that happened with the Supply Bills. So there is nothing new in something happening for the first time. The honourable senator spoke about a conspiracy on the part of the previous Government when it was dealing with the Committee of Twenty-Four of the United Nations. There is nothing new about conspiracies either and  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack should be aware of that. 
I go along with much of the feeling expressed about the United Nations. The United Nations has no formal obligations to implement the grant of independence to non-self-governing territories. But the General Assembly has exerted constant pressure on administering powers to implement articles 73 and 74 of the United Nations Charter not only to achieve selfgovernment but also to achieve independence. 
The honourable senator can tell us about that the next time he is on his feet. This pressure infers that the United Nations' conception of democratic government with self-government or independence is,  ipso facto,  better than the existing system. This inference may not be valid in the short run or necessarily true for a small isolated community such as Cocos. Nevertheless people on the Islands born since 1955 are Australian citizens. People on the Islands of 22 years of age are Australian citizens but are still living under a feudal system. The Government is responsible for administering those Islands. 
Since 1955 when Australia became the administering power little has been done to remove or alleviate the worst aspects of the truly feudal system operating on the Islands. There are no elected community representatives. The 6 head men who comprise the Island council and court are appointed by Clunies Ross and are presided over by Clunies Ross. There are no community elections of any sort on Cocos (Keeling) Islands. The workers are paid by plastic tokens redeemable only at the estate store, and the estate is effectively Clunies Ross. Travel to West Island.which is mainly occupied by Australians, is permitted only by express permission of the estate. Any person leaving or residing overseas is not permitted to return to the Islands. Apart from about 600 acres or 150 hectares owned by the Australian Government on West Island, all land, including Malay housing sites, is owned by the estate, which is Clunies Ross. 
Education is not compulsory. In fact, students leave school at the age of twelve. The students have primary education but provision is not made for secondary or tertiary education. Yet, we administer these Islands. All the school children on the Islands are Australian citizens. I have received letters from 3 people on the Island who wish to further their education. There is nothing we can do about this situation; there is nothing we seem to be prepared to do about it. These people did not wish me to answer their letters in case they were victimised. They only asked me to see whether we could do something about them furthering their education. They wish to come to Australia and then return to the Islands with some new-found knowledge that they hope to acquire here. But the situation is that we are not prepared to do anything. This is why I am on my feet at the moment and I will refer again to this matter in a moment. The punishments inflicted by the court invariably benefit the estate. For example, people do so many days unpaid labour as some form of punishment. 
It appears obvious that a population of fewer than 600 persons with limited resources and technology could not if it were fully independent, provide a viable social and economic structure and some sort of association with a larger, more advanced and richer society seems to be necessary. If Australia is that society it would need to act positively and would need to acquire, by compulsion if necessary, all the land comprising the Cocos group. It would need to acquire the land compulsorily because there is no other way it could administer justice to its citizens living on the estate. 
It would need to ensure that the island group is administered by a capable and qualified Australian with due regard to the social and legal customs and mores of the islanders. I believe this is necessary. I believe that if we do anything quickly we could destroy a culture, but we have to do something. Once the curiosities of people have been aroused- their curiosity has been aroused; there is no doubt about that- then it is not up to us to act as God and say: 'That is enough. You are happy where you are. CluniesRoss tells us that you are happy and some other people tell us that you are happy. Therefore, we can be God and say that your level of education can stop at 12 years of age'. We cannot play that part. Whether it is right or wrong we cannot stop people from satisfying their curiosities. 
We have to provide primary, secondary, technical education and, in selected cases, tertiary education on the mainland. I believe this is a responsibility of the Government but I see no Government policy on it. I stand here to oppose the ordinance because no policy has come forward from this Government. We have to ensure that the people are paid in Australian currency and not in tokens. At present, they are paid in tokens which are useless. The people cannot even save up to get off the island because they are paid in tokens. 
We have to introduce some form of democratically elected political assembly which, perhaps initially should be an advisory body to the Administrator but which eventually should be fitted to deal with the internal affairs of the islands. There are many things we can do and there are many policies we can have. I turn now to what perturbs me most and it is the only reason I rose to speak on the subject. I refer to a statement on Cocos (Keeling) Islands by the Australian Representative,  Mr Forrester,  in the SubCommittee on Small Territories of the Committee of Twenty-Four, on 23 July 1976. This would be the nearest to a policy statement that has come from this Government. It was made on 23 July 1976.  Mr Forrester  eulogises the Government and says how proud he is of the Australian Government and its achievements as an administrating power. Further in the report he states: 
At the time of the Minister's visit - 
That would be  Senator Withersover  200 of the SOO Cocos Malays had registered with the Administrator their interest in re-settlement away from Cocos. The Minister received strong representations that the Government should assist them in meeting the cost of the air fares to the Australian mainland. 
There has been a concomitant interest in gaining Australian citizenship by those who do not already possess it. 
That will be those persons over the age of 22 because anyone who is 22 and under is already an Australian citizen. The statement continues: 
Those with Australian citizenship are entitled to enter Australia, subject only to prior counselling on employment  and accommodation matters. There is nothing particularly new in a division within a community between the traditionalists and those who look for early and significant change in their circumstances. It is by no means new to Cocos. Such divisions have surfaced before, most recently in 19S8, as detailed in the annual report. 
Therefore, there is a situation which requires immediate attention. In fact, the previous Government was the Administrator for 17 years and no progress was made. During the 3 years- the two 18-month terms- when the previous Government was in office, it tried to do something. The acquisition of land seemed to be the only road that was open to the Minister at the time. I think the acquisition of land is necessary in order to do something for the Cocos Malays on the island. The part of the statement to which I referred earlier that perturbs me states: 
Australia is conscious of the need to seek measures which will heal the divisions within this fragile community. 
The Government is aware that there are divisions within the fragile community. 
It recognises the risks to the continued viability of the community which these recent developments pose. 
In the present situation and with all these matters currently under Government consideration, my delegation is unable at this time to make a statement of policy. 
The Government is not prepared and is unable to make a statement of policy. Yet, the Government wonders why we are moving this motion. The report states further: 
We feel that, in the circumstances, the Committee will accept that there must be a pause and that it must be left for a later report to indicate what particular policy courses for the future have been adopted by the Australian Government. 
I strongly suspect that it will be swept under the carpet. This Government had 17 years to do something but it did absolutely nothing during that 17 years. Once again the Liberal and National Country Parties are in government, by conspiracy, and it has disallowed the original ordinance. The reason I oppose the disallowance of that original ordinance is that I feel nothing will be done if the ordinance is revoked. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. When did the Minister take the decision to eliminate about 20 regional offices of the Department of Social Security from the Department's establishment? Was this decision taken as a result of recommendations of the Bland Committee or did the Minister have advice from her Department that these offices were no longer necessary? Will the Minister release a statement on the assumptions and evidence relating to this decision for the benefit of those communities which will now be deprived of an essential reference point for their legitimate claims and queries? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether it is true that the Australian Government has terminated allocations of aid to East Timor through international channels and, instead, will channel future humanitarian and relief aid through the Indonesian Red Cross. Secondly, in view of the support by the Indonesian Red Cross for the Indonesian invasion of East 
Timor, can the Minister outline what assurances have been received from the Indonesian Government and what steps have been made to ensure Australian Government participation in the distribution of aid to all areas in East Timor? I ask the Minister whether several Press reports covering this change in the Timor aid policy reflect a change in Australian Government policy recognising the Indonesian annexation. Finally, will Australia maintain an active policy of support for the proper process of self-determination in East Timor during the deliberations of the United Nations Committee of Twenty-Four on 8 and 9 September? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security, and it is on Medibank. Where there are 2 wage and salary earners in a family- that is, husband and wifeand they choose to take out Medibank at standard rates, will the 2!£ per cent levy be deducted from each salary and partially refunded at the end of the taxation year? Will this mean that exemption from paying the levy will not apply to those choosing Medibank standard in contrast with those choosing Medibank Private or private health fund insurance? 
The Minister for Social Security will remember that, in her statement of 2 1 May 1976 on the future of the Australian Assistance Plan, she proposed that the Commonwealth should assist State governments in the transfer of AAP functions after the States had had consultations with local government. In subsequent statements, she made reference to Commonwealth-State discussions which were to take place on the funding and administration of the AAP. I therefore ask the Minister: Have discussions taken place at a ministerial or office level? In view of the suggestion by the Prime Minister that these programs were appropriate for local government, does this mean that the States have turned down the opportunity to take over the AAP without specific grants? If so, is it intended to hold discussions directly with State and country local governments? 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: What matters are currently being considered by the Incomes Security Review Committee? Has the Minister given urgent priorities to any of these matters? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Is he aware of the plight of people in Albury-Wodonga who have made agreements to sell their land to the Albury-Wodonga Development Authority? Can the Minister inform the Senate when such agreements will be adhered to and when sufficient funds will be made available for the Authority to undertake its commitments this financial year? Is the Minister aware of considerable public opinion in AlburyWodonga that the Government is attempting to abandon the development of this and other growth centres? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence: Can the Government inform the Senate whether any discussions have been held between Australia and the United States of America on the proposed utilisation of the Learmonth air force base in Western Australia? Further, have there been any discussions with the United States in relation to the reported usage of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands for an air force base designed to provide an air link between Guam and Diego Garcia? 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs assure the Senate that Sandra Birch, the Western Australian woman who is appealing against a 6-year gaol sentence in Penang, Malaysia, is receiving the best possible assistance and protection from the Australian High Commission in Malaysia? Is it a fact, as stated in the Press, that an officer from the Australian High Commission was able to attend only the first 2 days of Miss Birch's 3-day trial because Canberra's cut-back on funds had imposed travel restrictions on the mission? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. The Minister for Health, in answer to a recent question on notice, said that studies were in hand regarding ways of alleviating the hardship suffered by pensioner, low income and chronic illness groups who have to pay the $2 fee for pharmaceutical benefit items. Has this matter been referred to the Income Security Review Committee? If not, has the Department of Social Security been consulted by the Department of Health on alleviating the hardships referred to? Why will it be some time before the studies are completed? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Australian Government terminated the allocation of aid to East Timor through international channels, and will future humanitarian and relief aid be channelled through the Indonesian Red Cross. 
In view of the Indonesian Red Cross's support for the Indonesian invasion of East Timor, can the Minister outline what assurances have been received from the Indonesian Government and what steps have been taken to ensure Australian Government participation in the distribution of aid to all areas in East Timor. 
Do Press reports concerning this change in Timor aid policy reflect a change in Australian Government policy, recognising the Indonesian annexation. 
Will Australia maintain an active policy of support for a proper process of self-determination in East Timor during the deliberations of the United Nations Committee of Twenty-four on 8 and 9 September 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware of the plight of people in Albury-Wodonga who have made agreements with the Albury-Wodonga Development Authority to sell their land. 
Will the Minister inform the Senate when such agreements will be adhered to and when sufficient funds will be made available to the Authority to undertake commitments in this financial year. 
Is the Minister aware of the considerable public opinion in Albury-Wodonga that the Government is attempting to abandon the development of this and other growth centres. 
-Has the Minister for Science read a report that monster sea sponges have been found recently some 64 kilometres off the coast of San Francisco? Is the Minister aware that these sponges are of a new genus and are thriving in water at depths in excess of 900 metres? Can the Minister enlarge upon the significance of this discovery and say whether it has anything to do with radioactive leakage from the drums of nuclear waste to which the sponges are attached? 
-I ask the Minister for Science: Have there been any reciprocal visits this year between Australia and India under the Science and Technology Co-operation Agreement signed in February 1975? If not, can the Minister indicate when the next exchange of personnel under this agreement is proposed? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science. The Minister may recall that last year the New South Wales Government was concerned that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation fisheries research vessel  Courageous  might duplicate the research efforts of the New South Wales State Fisheries Division and operate within New South Wales waters. Will the Minister state where the  Courageous  is operating at present and on what projects? Can he assure the Senate that it is not duplicating the work of the New South Wales State Fisheries Division? 
-I ask the Minister for Science: What was the outcome of a meeting of Commonwealth and State Ministers at Moree, New South Wales, on 28 July, concerning the control of water hyacinth? Has a control program been devised? How much will it cost? How will this cost be spread between the national Government and the States? 
-Will the Minister for Social Security inform the Senate whether she made a promise on a television program  Telethon  in Perth on the weekend of 16 and 17 October that the Fraser Government would give the  Sir David  Brand Handicapped Children's Centre a $1 for $4 subsidy? Is it true that the promise of money has since been withdrawn? Is it a fact that the film of the program has been destroyed so that no record of the Minister's promise is available? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. Is the Minister aware that at the office of his Department in William Street, Perth, no provision is made for members of the public to discuss their affairs in private when seeking information and advice on pensions and other related matters? Can the Minister look into the possibility of providing a private area where people can feel free to discuss their business in private with members of his Department? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What, over the past two years, was the (a) number of family groups and (b) number of one parent family groups, which arrived in Australia under the Fairbridge Scheme and, in each case, what was the average number of children per family. 
Why are these people travelling under the Fairbridge Scheme. 
Why are these people not able to be accommodated in hostels. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to the opposition of the Australian Association of Social Workers to the application of the term main user principle' to social workers- that is, the proposition that all welfare workers should be centralised in the Department of Social Security? Has the Minister or her Department expressed a view on this matter to the Prime Minister and the Public Service Board which have authorised a study on the corollary of social workers? As all the staff involved have condemned a move towards what they term a centralised social control mechanism, will the Minister press for the inclusion of clients among the groups whose views are being canvassed before an irrevocable decision is made which will gratify no one but the bureaucracy? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is it true that  Mr R.  Lobato, a senior member of Fretilin, has been refused an entry visa to Australia? Is this change of policy in relation to representatives of Fretilin entering Australia directly attributable to statements made by the Indonesian Foreign Minister,  Mr Malik?  Is the Government not abrogating its responsibility for determining Australia's foreign policy in acceding to Indonesian demands? Does the Prime Minister agree that this deliberate exclusion of  Mr Lobato  runs in complete contradiction to Australia's condemnation of Indonesian actions in East Timor? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to a question asked by  Senator Georges  on 11 November 1976 concerning East Timor refugees. Is the Minister in a position to state whether the Government will assist East Timorese refugees now living in Portugal to come to Australia? Will the Government undertake to provide some of the $250,000 which was promised to the discredited Indonesian Red Cross to be diverted to assist East Timor refugees in Portugal? Will special priority be given to this most necessary humanitarian task? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs explain the decision to abstain on the East Timor resolution that was adopted by the United Nations Fourth Committee? Does the Minister not agree that such an abstention amounts to nothing more than complete compliance with the demands of and to appeasement of the Indonesian Generals? In view of this vote on a resolution calling for the right of selfdetermination of the people of East Timor, can the Minister explain the current Australian policy? Will the Minister not agree that such a decision demonstrates before the world 's people an inhumanity and a lack of principle in the Australian attitude? 
-I present the official report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to Indonesia, Singapore and Malaysia, the visit of which took place between 23 June and 15 July this year. As only a limited number of copies of the report are available, copies have been lodged in the Senate Records Office for the information of honourable senators.  Mr President,  I seek leave to make a brief statement relating to this report. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer the Minister to the case of  Mr Da  Silva, a Fretilin member now in Australia. Is the Minister aware that  Mr Da  Silva has been charged for operating a radio link with East Timor from a point near Darwin? Is the Minister aware that  Mr Da  Silva was held in the Phillip Street, Sydney, cells on the night of Friday, 26 November? Why was  Mr Da  Silva arrested on a warrant instead of being prosecuted through a summons? Who made the decision to proceed on the warrant that was issued on 25 November, almost 2 months after the confiscation of the radio? Why was there such a delay in proceeding by warrant against  Mr Da  Silva? Will the Minister state whether it is intended to proceed against  Mr Da  Silva through summary or indictable proceedings in the Darwin Court on 1 December? Why has  Mr Da  Silva not been granted an exit visa in order to leave Australia? Finally, does the Minister not agree that such proceedings against  Mr Da  Silva are tantamount to political persecution of Timorese people who wish to see their country freed from the brutal Indonesian invaders? 
I take this opportunity to speak briefly to the Historic Shipwrecks Bill 1976. My colleague,  Senator Douglas  McClelland, dealt with the legalities in the Bill and compared it with State legislation. I found the account given by Government senators of the early history of the shipwrecks very interesting. It was at the stage cf hearing that account that I decided to gathe together a few notes which I had to give a more modern history which I consider to be pertinent to the Bill. 
It was in the beginning of the 1950s that it was known to some historians that there were wrecks off the Western Australian coast. A man named Robinson, who was an underwater diver and who was very active in looking for those wrecks, located one in August 1957. He claimed that the wreck he had found was the  Gilt Dragon.  After taking legal advice, Robinson reported the location of the wreck and his discovery of it to the Commonwealth Receiver of Wrecks in 
Fremantle, pursuant to the provisions of the Commonwealth Navigation Act. After that time neither Robinson nor anyone else was able to relocate the wreck which was situated under a reef at least some 3 miles off the Western Australian coast. It was not until 1963 that the wreck was rediscovered by Robinson, Henderson, Henderson's son and some other people. 
Yes, I know. For the present it is enough to say that the group fell out and there were some bitter arguments between Robinson and Henderson. 
-Senator Chaney can have his say later on. In the meantime I have the floor. There was some hostility between Robinson and Henderson. Of the group, Robinson was the only one to report the wreck again to the Commonwealth Receiver of Wrecks in April 1963. He claimed an interest in that wreck. The Commonwealth took no discernible interest in the wreck. The Receiver never formally took possession of it or carried out any other procedures to exercise control. At about the same time the  Batavia  wreck was discovered in 1963, and between 1963 and 1964 there was a period when quite a number of divers were going down to these wrecks and retrieving some of the articles of historic value. It was in that period that the dispute between Robinson and Henderson became most significant. There was no doubt that Robinson was working the  Gilt Dragon  at that time. Henderson contended that Robinson had taken no part in the discovery and that it was he and his son who were doing most of the work. 
Quite a Press campaign was run. Robinson was the one who was being run down by Henderson who was a journalist on the local newspaper. This resulted in the Museum Act Amendment Act of 1964 being passed in November 1964. This was the first piece of State legislation on the subject. Subsequent to that Robinson ceased any work on the wreck and kept making representations to the Western Australian Museum to be allowed to assist in the salvaging of the wreck, but he did not get anywhere with that. Robinson was at odds with the Museum. Henderson was a reporter on the  Sunday Independent,  and a series of articles was run against Robinson. Robinson brought a libel action against the  Sunday Independent,  and damages were awarded against the  Sunday Independent.  State legislation was again amended in 1969 to a minor degree. Robinson had loaned his coins to the Museum and they were seized. There was an action in the Supreme Court concerning who had the right to a lot of coins. That action was determined on the basis that all the coins should be returned to Robinson because it was conceded that they were in his possession before the Act of Parliament. 
Robinson has contended all along that the proper authority and the proper owner for these wrecks is the Commonwealth. His actions have been consistent with that claim from the very beginning. Because of the inactivity of the Commonwealth it was necessary for someone to do something, and the State has legislated. Robinson says that it does not give him any recompense or any credit for finding the wreck. If the Commonwealth is the true owner of the wrecks, then there is a provision in the Navigation Act which recognises a claim for salvage, which would have to be considered, entitling him to payment for a reasonable remuneration for the time and effort he had already given. The only way in which to clear the air was to have the validity of the State legislation decided and to have declared what is considered to be the position with the Commonwealth legislation, which should prevail, and that the Commonwealth should be dealing with the action, 
The case was heard in Sydney before the High Court of Australia in March 1976. The Full Bench convened and all the States, except Queensland, were represented, and they intervened. The case lasted for 3 days and is still awaiting the decision of the High Court. The decision is expected at any time. According to the Western Australia Registry the case is between Ellis Alfred Robinson, plaintiff, and the Western Australian Museum, defendant. I have been led to believe that if the decision comes down before the legislation is enacted and if the decision is in favour of Robinson there is every chance that a vacuum will exist. During the period until the legislation is enacted the wrecks are open to plunder. Whether or not that is true, I do not know. I will leave it to the Minister to answer. 
On 3 November I asked a question of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in regard to a promise she made when she appeared on a telethon program on television Channel 7 in Perth. I asked her whether it was a fact that the film had been destroyed so that no record of the Minister's promise was available. On 9 November I received a letter from TVW Channel 7 which stated that the company's attention had been drawn to an article published in the  West Australian  on 6 November which referred to my question. The company felt from the terms of the article that I had posed a question which reflected upon its integrity. I was assured that the videotape of the interview was completely intact and I was invited personally to view the videotape. I accepted this offer. So that the record may be put straight, I wish it to be recorded that the tape and all that it contains are intact. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. What is the position of school leavers who complete their schooling in one State but register for employment in another State where school resumes earlier or later than in the boy's or girl's own State? Is benefit uniformly payable on the date of the resumption of school in the State in which he or she is registered? Is there a mandatory 6-week waiting time, or in some cases will this be 5 weeks or 10 weeks according to the inter-state movements of the school leaver? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. Is the Minister aware that an Australian company may be forced to withdraw from further exploration and development of the Kapunda copper mine in South Australia because of a shortage of funds? Will this withdrawal result in a further increase in foreign ownership of this deposit through Utah Development Co.? Will the Government take steps, as outlined in its Australian equity policy, to ensure that this does not happen? 
I present the following petition from 3710 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth do humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government: 
Subscribe to the view that the Australian Broadcasting Commission belongs to the people and not to the Government of the day, whatever political party. 
Eschew all means, direct or indirect, of diminishing the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Reject all proposals for the introduction of advertising into ABC programs. 
Develop methods for publicly funding the Commission which will prevent the granting or withholding of funds being used as a method of diminishing its independence. 
Ensure that any general enquiries into broadcasting in Australia which may seem desirable from time to time shall be conducted publicly and that strong representation of the public shall be included within the body conducting the enquiry. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Today is the first anniversary of the Indonesian invasion of East Timor, without a doubt a day of shame and tragedy from which Australians can draw very little comfort. I ask the Minister: Is he aware of a letter to the Prime Minister from the Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace calling upon the Government to renew its efforts towards persuading the Indonesian Government to allow international aid organisations into East Timor? Is the Government prepared to act on this request? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to the article in today's  Australian Financial Review  on the ambiguous nature of the discretion of the Director-General of the Department of Social Security in refusing or allowing the unemployment benefit to be paid to school leavers. If the Director-General can grant the unemployment benefit if he is satisfied with the procedures under section 107(c)(m) of the Social Services Act, will the Minister instruct him to withdraw the letters currently going out to applicants saying that they will not be paid before the end of the school vacation? 
 I had not intended to speak on this matter because, after all, I do not think that this is some form of confessional chamber. What I did in attending that ceremony I did with dignity and pride. I can assure honourable senators I enjoyed  Senator Walters'  speech very much indeed. It was a wonderful contribution to the Parliament. 
As I was going to say, it is one of the best speeches she has ever made. But I can assure honourable senators that it was not the speech that was delivered yesterday at the War Memorial. The honourable senator can nod her head; I could not care less. 
-Well, shake it. As far as I am concerned, it was not the speech that was delivered by Tom Uren. It is a very good speech. I am glad that it has been incorporated in  Hansard.  As for  Senator Harradine,  he could quite easily have found out the conditions that were laid down by the Board, or whatever it is called. That was up to him. To me he is a sick joke; so I do not intend to answer anything he said. 
 All parties recognise the need to amend the Bill so as to protect anyone who might quite innocently commit an offence. After all, not too many people are as well informed as the Hendersons, when they located and recognised the  Gilt Dragon  in 1963, who assigned the ownership of the wreck to the Western Australian Museum because they believed that it was of historic value and belonged to the nation. 
-It was indeed. The honourable senator should know. I am sure that the amendments will be supported not only by those who are keen to protect relics from shipwrecks, but also by all fair-minded sections of the community. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that  Mr E.  Da Silva has been charged for operating a radio-link with East Timor from a point near Darwin. 
ls the Minister aware that  Mr Da  Silva was held in the Phillip Street Cells, Sydney on Friday night, 26 November 1976. 
Why was  Mr Da  Silva arrested on warrant instead of by summons. 
Who made the decision to proceed on a warrant that was issued on 25 November 1976, almost 2 months after the confiscation of the radio. 
Why was there such a delay in proceeding by warrant against  Mr Da  Silva. 
Is it intended to proceed against  Mr Da  Silva through summary or indictable proceedings in the Darwin Court on 1 December 1976. 
Why has  Mr Da  Silva not been granted an exit visa in order to leave Australia. 
My question, addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, refers to the Federal Government's loans through the States to fruit canneries. I would like to know why no money has been advanced to the Manjimup Cooperative Cannery in Western Australia? Is the lack of money due to the negligence or disinterest of the State Government? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to reports of proposals made by the Australian Department of Defence to the Indonesian Government for the holding of joint naval exercises in the Indian Ocean. Who authorised such proposals? Who conducted discussions concerning the proposals with the Indonesian Government? In view of the public stance of the Australian Government of opposition to Indonesian intervention in East Timor, does the Minister not agree that such proposals could be interpreted as  de facto  support for Indonesian military activities in East Timor? 
Honourable senators who are arguing against the view that senators ought to be allowed to read their speeches should examine their motives for doing so. Is it because they feel they have an advantage in some way? Those who have argued the case against senators being able to read their speeches have been those honourable senators who are capable of speaking off the cuff. They have an advantage. Do they wish to retain that advantage, or do they wish to carry on the hypocrisy of saying that an honourable senator has no right to read a speech when they know full well that that person can get off the hook by using copious notes? People with copious notes have an advantage and they feel great. The reality of the situation is that we speak about many subjects. A person may be able to talk freely and clearly on a subject with which he or she feels emotionally bound up, or a subject in which he or she has been involved. But we have many subjects before us. All honourable senators get their research officers to look into the topics. If an honourable senator has the advantage of being able to talk off the cuff with the aid of a few notes supplied by his research officer he wants to hang onto that advantage. The greatest egotists and actors in the world are in this Parliament and, by heavens, they are going to hang onto that advantage for as long as they can. 

 Senator Withers mentioned that the individuality of the Senate would be taken away if honourable senators were able to read their speeches. I doubt it. I think individuality is being taken away from the Senate by retaining a standing order which gives an advantage to four or six honourable senators. On many occasions if honourable senators were allowed to read their speeches they could contribute much to the Senate. If honourable senators were able to use what we hypocritically call copious notes they would be able to contribute far more than they do now. I am losing the point. I should have copious notes. 
-I thank  Senator Missen  very much for saying that but I ask: How would I react when it comes to a Bill on which I feel I should be speaking, to which I feel I should be contributing? I can do my research. I can write out a speech. We know whether a person is talking from his heart, even if he is reading his notes. But under Standing Orders I cannot have my notes with me so I have to sit mum in case some smart alec gets up and says: 'He is reading all his speech '. An advantage goes with good eyesight. 
A few honourable senators have good eyesight. They can read from very small notes and they stand and read their speeches. Honourable senators talk about discrimination. Are they not discriminating against a person who does not have good eyesight, or against a person who is incapable of talking off the cuff, I hope that honourable senators will reconsider their whole attitude towards this standing order and examine their motives in taking the attitude they are taking. 
-Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware of the United States law which prohibits a country from using American military equipment for operations not based on legitimate self defence? In view of the possible use of Australian military aid by Indonesia in East Timor, is the Government willing to review Australia's requirements for military aid and implement prohibition clauses similar to those currently in operation in the United States. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer the Minister to a cable sent by  Mr Woolcott,  the Australian Ambassador to Indonesia, in which he urges the Australian Government to play a positive role in supporting a high level of assistance to Indonesia at the April meeting of the Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia? What is the Government's position concerning Indonesia's request for $US60Om in aid to be channelled through the members of IGGI. In view of the reported atrocities in East Timor, will Australia press for a lower level of aid to Indonesia through IGGI? Will Australia's delegation to IGGI be instructed to raise the question of the alleged gross violations of human rights? Has the Government any knowledge of moves by the Netherlands Government to raise the question at the IGGI meeting? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is the Minister aware of reports that East Timorese refugees who left the Portuguese territory late last year and are residing in Portugal are now prepared to speak publicly on their experiences during the Indonesian invasion? Is the Government prepared to obtain evidence from them relating to the deaths of 6 Australian journalists and reported atrocities by Indonesian forces in 
East Timor? Would the Government be prepared to send an all-party parliamentary delegation to Portugal for the purpose of collecting information? 
That note came from Rex Sydell. He said: 
I have a bad heart. I cannot walk SO paces. Will you kindly come down to meet me as I have much evidence to give to you and many stories to tell you. 
We went to see Sydell and he told us stories about the Indonesian atrocities and the military movements that were taking place along the borders of Timor. Since I was in search of the truth I was not much concerned about this man's opinion. After all, he had a bad heart, could not walk 50 paces and was some 1 50 miles from the border of Indonesia and Timor. I had better not express the opinion I gave when I was asked what I thought of the man by the other two members of the party who were with me. It is not fit for  Hansard.  What I thought about the man would probably suit my argument now. 
Normally I would say to a remark like that that you would keep, but quite frankly after having a good look at you I doubt whether you will keep very long. This man Sydell did not have 2 pennies to rub together. The same person went to the United Nations and gave evidence entirely opposite to the stories he told to the 3 members of Parliament who visited him in Lospalos. He has plenty of money now. This is the picture image. Honourable senators can draw their own conclusions. I have drawn mine. 
While we were in Dili we also listened to broadcasts from Radio Kupang. The broadcasts started with bursts of machine gun fire and then followed all sorts of spurious propaganda in support of the Apodeti Party. I managed to form my opinion by making inquiries. I think it behoves the Senate to make more inquiries about the atrocities that have been committed there. On 2 May 1 975 the UDT-Fretilin coalition collapsed. On 10 August the UDT launched its coup. The Fretilin party did not react immediately. Hopes were high that the Portuguese would take control. The people had high hopes that the Portuguese would come back. They waited patiently. Honourable senators should not forget that it was the UDT which carried out the coup. It was not until 20 August when the bitter fighting started in the hills around Dili that it looked as though the UDT was completely finished. By mid September 1975 the UDT took control. 
On 26 September 1975 a further delegation visited East Timor. I believe  Senator Bonner  was a member of that delegation. He can speak for himself on his observations and inquiries there. In September Fretilin wanted the Portuguese to return to institute the decolonisation process which it had started. But the Portuguese were too busy evacuating themselves from the troubles and avoiding their responsibilities. On 7 October there was a major Indonesian attack along the borders, and on 16 October the Indonesian troops entered Balibo, where the 6 Australian journalists were killed. If those journalists had been killed in the course of their duties, that would have been fair enough. They take that risk upon themselves when they decide to go into a war zone and report the news. But there are grave doubts - 
Debate interrupted. 
-Is the Minister representing the Prime Minister aware of an announcement by Congressman Fraser that the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on International Relations proposes to interview East Timorese refugees who now reside in Portugal? Has the Minister noted that on the Channel 2 national news on 24 March East Timorese refugees were interviewed about atrocities in East Timor? In view of the preparedness of the East Timorese refugees to appear before properly constituted inquiries, will the Minister outline what steps the Government proposes to take to gather information or to hold an inquiry involving the refugees? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. During the 90-day price-wage freeze proposed by the Prime Minister and the State Premiers last week, will the Australian Government publicly denounce the price rise of any item or commodity? If that action fails to restrain any price increase, what action does the Australian Government propose to take? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on notice, on 23 March: 
Did the Australian Ambassador to Indonesia,  Mr Woolcott,  in a cable urge the Australian Government to play a positive role in supporting a high level of assistance' to Indonesia, at the April meeting of the Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia? 
What is the Government's position concerning Indonesian requests for US$600m in aid to be channelled through the members of the Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia? 
Will Australia press for a lower level of aid to Indonesia through the Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia, in view of reported atrocities in East Timor? 
Will the Australian delegation to the InterGovernmental Group on Indonesia be instructed to raise the question of the alleged gross violations of human rights by Indonesia? 
Has the Government any knowledge of moves by the Netherlands Government to raise these questions at the Inter- Governmental Group on Indonesia meeting? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of an announcement by Congressman Fraser that the United States Congressional Committee on International Organisations proposes to interview East Timorese refugees who now reside in Portugal? 
Has the Minister noted that on the Channel 2 national news on 24 March 1977 East Timorese refugees were interviewed regarding atrocities in East Timor? 
In view of this preparedness by East Timorese refugees to appear before properly constituted inquiries, will the Minister outline what steps the Government proposes to take to gather information or hold an inquiry involving the refugees? 
My question, addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, refers to the application by  Mr Chris  Santos for permanent residence. Will the Government grant permanent residence to  Mr Santos?  Is the Minister aware that due to her not having permanent residence  Mrs Santos  has been barred from receiving a tertiary education assistance scholarship to enter Prahran College of Advanced Education? When will permanent residence be granted to the Santos family so that it will be able to receive the same rights as other East Timorese refugees now residing in Australia? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the visit of 2 Australian officials from the Embassy in Jakarta to East Timor. What are the full purposes of the visit? Is the visit being carried out under the auspices of the Indonesian Government? If so, does the Minister not agree that this action implies recognition of Indonesia 's sovereignty in East Timor? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the report on atrocities in East Timor that was prepared by  Mr Jim  Dunn. In view of the fact that this report was forwarded to the Government early in February, will the Minister state when the Government intends to make a statement relating to the allegations contained in the report? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister, refers to reports of jamming of messages from East Timor on 14 and 18 May. Is the Government aware of such incidents of jamming? Can he state whether such jamming emanated from any source in Australia? Further, can he assure the public that no Australian Government agency or individuals were involved in such jamming? 
-Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware of a report in the  Canberra Times  of 21 May that United States military aid to Indonesia will be terminated at the end of the current financial year and that this decision was conveyed by the United States Ambassador on 18 May? Is the Government aware of the reasons for ending military aid to Indonesia? In view of continued breaches of United Nations resolutions on East Timor, is the Government prepared to take an attitude similar to that of the United States? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. It relates to the vast energy field of the north west shelf, the development of which is at present under negotiation between the Government and Woodside-Burmah Oil NL. Is the Minister aware that in his address to the annual general meeting of WoodsideBurmah Oil NL this year the  Chairman  stated that, if the company was refused permission to export 6.5 million tonnes of liquefied natural gas per year, development of the field would be delayed at least 7 years and possibly forever? Does the Minister feel that a just and equitable result can be obtained from these negotiations while they are being conducted in such a climate of blatant blackmail? Is the Minister convinced that the  Chairman  of Woodside-Burmah Oil NL has the power to carry out his threat to deny the energy benefits of the north west shelf to the people of Australia if his demands are not met? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport and relates to the economics of the proposed natural gas pipeline from the North West Shelf to the eastern seaboard. Is the Minister aware that at this year's annual general meeting of Woodside-Burmah Oil NL, the  Chairman  stated that the transporting of gas from the North West Shelf to Sydney would cost $1.70 and perhaps $2 per thousand cubic feet and would not be acceptable to industry in the eastern States? Is the Minister aware also that the United States Federal Power Commission has recommended that a planned pipeline to carry natural gas from Alaska's north slope be built across Canada and that the Commission's economic study indicated that the cost per thousand cubic feet delivered to Chicago would be 80c? That information is from the  Financial Times  of 4 May 1 977. As the distance from the north slope of Alaska to Chicago is far greater than the distance from the North West Shelf to Sydney and the terrain much more difficult, would the Minister care to investigate or have investigated the trustworthiness of the Chairman's economics? If the Chairman's figures are proved to be wrong, this question in some way may be able to help preserve a great Australian asset from being shipped overseas, along with all the other energy sources that this Government is hellbent on getting rid of at giveaway prices. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. When the Government was preparing to massacre Medibank a very expensive campaign was launched to promote the new system of health insurance to the people of Australia and it was stated that dental cover would be included in the private Medibank health insurance package in the near future. This was some considerable time ago. Given that the Hospital Benefit Fund of Western Australia covers people for dental treatment, when does the Minister envisage that dental cover will be included in the private Medibank health insurance scheme? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
1 ) Is the Prime Minister aware of reports that East Timor refugees who left the Portuguese territory late last year and are now residing in Portugal are now prepared to speak publicly on their experience during the Indonesian invasion; if so, is the Government prepared to obtain evidence from them relating to the deaths of six Australian journalists and reported atrocities by Indonesian forces in East Timor. 
Will the Government be prepared to send an all Party Parliamentary delegation to Portugal for the purpose of collecting information. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Since the Minister,  Senator Guilfoyle,  was bom in Northern Ireland it is most appropriate that she should answer the question. Will the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs be seeking legal means of deporting migrants, who could be citizens of this country, because they choose to become active members of the trade union movement? If so, will this policy be extended to mirants in the political arena? Maybe I should ask  Senator Bonner  that question. 
-Is the Minister representing the Prime Minister aware of articles by  Mr Richard  Carleton, who has recently visited East Timor, which confirm details of atrocities by Indonesion armed forces? Does the Government intend to interview  Mr Carleton  concerning his statement? In view of the mounting evidence of massive atrocities by Indonesians in East Timor, will the Government now attempt to assist the International Red Cross to get into East Timor and renew calls for immediate withdrawal of Indonesian troops? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. What estimate does the Government have of the price elasticity of demand for petrol? Who prepared the estimate? What percentage decline in purchases does the estimate predict would follow a price increase of about 1 5 per cent, that is, an increase of 1 lc per gallon? If the Government has no evidence, how will the 11c price hike conserve our petroleum resources? 
-I associate myself with my colleagues in paying a tribute to Rex Connor. I knew Rex for only a short time, but he was a man who impressed me very much indeed. I believed him to be a dinkum Australian, a man who loved his country, a man with a vision and a man who believed in and worked towards Australia being owned by Australians. I am sure he will be recorded in Australian history as such a man. 

 Honourable senators having stood in their places- 


 Senator WITHERS (Western AustraliaLeader of the Government in the Senate)- As a mark of respect to the late  Mr Connor,  I move: 
That the sitting  of  the Senate be suspended until 8 p.m. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 3.7 to 8 p.m. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. Firstly, what indexes, projected or actual, have been applied to base capital and base recurrent programs for 1977-78 in each sector of the Tertiary Education Commission and each program of the Schools Commission so as to arrive at the estimated total of $75m which is provided for cost supplementation of grants made by these bodies in the financial year 1977-78 and which appears in the financial tables in Budget Statement No. 3- Estimates of Outlay 1977-78? Secondly, how is the $75m estimated to be apportioned amongst capital and recurrent programs of each sector of the Tertiary Education Commission and the Schools Commission? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Will the Minister confirm or deny reports that Indonesia is preparing for a large-scale offensive against East Timor? Will the Minister provide details? What is the Government's attitude to this new invasion? Further, will the Minister outline the steps, if any, taken by the Government to persuade the Indonesians not to pursue such an outrageous, inhumane and callous action against the suffering people of East Timor? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 19 August 1977: 
1 ) Will the Minister for Social Security inform the Senate of the bona fides of an organisation known as Employed Action Committee, Box 81, Mayfield, New South Wales 2304. 
Specifically, will the Minister provide the following information: (a) when was the organisation formed; (b) where does it meet; (c) how often does it meet; (d) who are its President and Secretary; (e) does it receive support from the Minister's Depanment; and (f) is it affiliated in any way with the Australian Uranium Producers' Forum. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer Is it a fact that many small businesses in rural and urban areas have suffered greatly from fluctuations in their incomes, particularly when consumer demand is depressed as a result of the Government's economic policies? Is it a fact that the Industries Assistance Commission's report that recommended the introduction of an income equalisation deposit scheme and the retention of tax averaging provisions for rural producers recommended also that these proposals should be extended to all taxpayers? Will the Government give consideration to implementing this IAC recommendation in the near future, particularly to protect small businesses from bankruptcy in the present recession? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport the following question, without notice, on 31 May 1977, relating to the economics of the proposed natural gas pipeline from the North West Shelf to the eastern seaboard: 
Is the Minister aware that at this year's annual general meeting of Woodside-Burmah Oil NL, the  Chairman  stated that the transporting of gas from the North West Shelf to Sydney would cost $ 1 .70 and perhaps $2 per thousand cubic feet and would not be acceptable to industry in the eastern States? Is the Minister aware also that the U.S. Federal Power Commission has recommended that a planned ipeline to carry natural gas from Alaska's north slope be uilt across Canada and that the Commission's economic study indicated that the cost per thousand cubic feet delivered to Chicago would be 80c? That information is from the 'Financial Times' of 4 May 1977. As the distance from the north slope of Alaska to Chicago is far greater than the distance from the North West Shelf to Sydney and the terrain much more difficult, would the Minister care to investigate or have investigated the trustworthiness of the Chairman's economics? If the Chairman's figures are proved to be wrong, this question in some way may be able to help preserve a great Australian asset from being shipped overseas, along with all the other energy sources that this Government is hellbent on getting rid of at giveaway prices. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Does the substantial outflow of speculative capital over the last two months indicate that overseas and other investors have no confidence in the Australian dollar and that a further substantial devaluation of the Australian dollar is imminent? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Has the Australian Government received reports about increased military activities in Irian Jaya? Is the Papua New Guinea Government or the Indonesian Government informing the Australian Government of what is happening? Are reports correct that up to 1,500 people have crossed the border from Irian Jaya into the Sepik River district? Can the Minister advise the Senate of the current position? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. The Minister, in answer to a question asked by  Senator Douglas  McClelland on Thursday 22 September, indicated that in his view it was desirable to use 12-month periods when attempting to gauge an accurate measure of the annual level of inflation. Can the Minister therefore explain why the Prime Minister chose to use quarterly data to measure the implicit price deflator when speaking to his electorate on 18 September about the current annual rate of inflation? Will the Minister request the Treasurer to ensure that henceforth only data collected over 12-month periods will be used when statements are made by Ministers concerning annual inflation rates and not indices like the implicit price deflator based on quarterly statistics? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 18 August 1977: 
Is the Minister aware of articles by  Mr Richard  Carleton, who has recently visited East Timor, which confirm details of atrocities by Indonesian armed forces. 
Does the Government intend to discuss with  Mr Carleton  these matters. 
In view of the mounting evidence of atrocities by Indonesia in East Timor, will the Government now attempt to assist the International Red Cross to gain entry into East Timor and renew calls for an immediate withdrawal of Indonesian troops. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 23 August 1977: 
1 ) What indexes, projected or actual, have been applied to (a) base capital and (b) base recurrent programs for 1977-78 in each sector of the Tertiary Education Commission and each program of the Schools Commission, to arrive at the estimated total of $75 million provided for cost supplementation of grants made by these bodies in the financial year 1977-78 (Financial Tables in Budget Statement No. 3-Estimates of Outlays 1977-78). 
How will the $75 million estimate be apportioned among capital and recurrent programs of each sector of the Tertiary Education Commission and the Schools Commission. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I remind the Minister of several questions asked of her in the autumn session relating to a visa application by  Mr Chris  Santos and his family. As I have not received any reply to my questions relating to the Santos family, I now ask: What stage of consideration has the case reached? Is the Minister aware that  Mr Santos's  visa expired on 30 April 1977 and that  Mrs Santos  has been refused a tertiary education assistance scheme application on the basis of not having a current visa? When will the Government make a decision on this case and end the months of concern of the Santos family due to the delay? 
I rise to speak to the Budget brought down by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  on 16 August 1977. Before I speak on the Budget, I would like to take up a remark made by  Senator Missen  when he was talking about the log of claims. It is pretty obvious that he knows very little about the ambit in which trade unions have to work when they are placing a log of claims. I think his understanding of the trade union movement, like  Senator Kilgariff's,  is appalling.  Senator Kilgariff  obviously knows nothing about the leadership of the trade union movement or what is going on in the trade union movement. Otherwise he would have realised that on many occasions and probably in the current dispute the rank and file set the pace and not the leaders.  Senator Missen  also mentioned sewerage works. I cannot quite remember his words but they were to the effect that he would be pleased to see sewerage works once again going ahead. Quite frankly, I think it is deplorable that money for sewerage work was stopped. The worst sewered cities in the English speaking world are here in Australia. What happened when the sewerage work was stopped? We had unemployed engineers, subcontractors and contractors right down to the man with the pick and shovel. Yet the Government wonders why the ranks of the unemployed are swelling. 
I do not think anyone looking at this Budget could call it an imaginative Budget by any stretch of the imagination. It is not an imaginative Budget. It does not seem to be planned to attack unemployment and inflation in the slightest. In fact, I think that the only description that could be applied to this Budget is a 'non-event'. The Government's attitude is: Let us wait and see if things get better. Let us wait and see if private enterprise will get us out of the mire that we have put ourselves in. Instead of bringing down constructive policies, the Government seems to have concentrated on its bitter and vicious attacks upon the trade union movement. The Treasurer never even tried to look at alternative policies. In fact, instead of choosing a Budget which would create jobs, he has chosen a Budget that intends to swell the ranks of the unemployed. One would think the Government intends to fight the next election against an army of unemployed. 
The first three or four pages of the Budget Speech continually harp on wages. Then, on the next page the Treasurer has the audacity to say that unemployment is a human problem, not just a question of statistics. A first-year student would know that unemployment is a human problem. The trouble is that we do not have any humanitarians in the Government who are willing to come out with a humanitarian-type Budget to alleviate the situation. On the next page, not only does the Treasurer attack wages, but also he takes a sideswipe at the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. He says: 
The Commission must be prepared to face, with a greater degree of reality, the employment consequences of its decisions. It is obvious to me - 
-If the honourable senator wants to talk, he can get up and talk later on. It is obvious to me that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission certainly is not a commission that has been generous in the granting of wage increases. It has never been generous in regard to wages. Therefore, I think that a sideswipe at the Commission, which has been the Government's greatest ally during the years, is rather unkind. Let us look at what is also stated in the Budget Speech. This interested me. The Treasurer said: 
It is now up to the private sector to respond to the brighter outlook which is in prospect. 
As we have emphasised, a re-vitalised private sector is essential to increased productivity and more jobs. 
Governments can only do so much; this Government has consistently pursued the course of making way for expansion of the private sector. 
It is now up to the private sector to play its part in furthering the progress we have made towards establishing and building upon the pre-conditions for economic recovery. 
I find the sentence 'governments can only do so much' quite pathetic. I ask honourable senators: Is this the voice of confidence? We are told that the governments can only do so much. Let us go back to the presentation of last year's Budget. I quote from an article written by Tony Warton. The headline is: 'Now it's up to you, Fraser tells business'. This article was written after the presentation of the Budget last year. It reads: 
Canberra: The Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  gave a plain warning to business yesterday that the Government had done all it could to stabilise the economy and that it was time for the private sector to get moving. 
In a statement that described Tuesday's Budget as an imaginative blueprint for national recovery and reform, he said: 'It is a Budget that throws the ball fairly into the court of private enterprise. 
Private enterprise now has unparalleled opportunities to realise its full potential. 
It has its chance to demonstrate that the free enterprise system can restore the economic health . . . 
Last year, the Prime Minister was telling business that the ball was at its feet. We saw the headlines such as: 'Fraser now says it is up to business', 'It is up to big business' and 'It is time the private sector got moving'. It is a far cry from last year to this year when the Treasurer makes a pathetic statement that governments can only do so much. Is this inspiring? I am sure that the phrase 'governments can only do so much' must fill the nation with confidence. 
Quite frankly, I think that this Government has done enough. It has done too much. As long as it continues to keep biting off the public sector as it is doing, there is no chance of the private sector responding because it is the public sector that provides the private sector with most of its work in any case. I am talking about small business and manufacturing business in particular. 
Last year I was a member of a delegation that visited a number of cities throughout Asia.  Senator Collard  was part of that delegation and  Mr Viner  led it. I noticed in Asia that quite a number of factories were being set up with their home base here in Australia. We visited one particular factory in Kuala Lumpur- this was one of many such factories- at which this situation existed. I noticed that the machinery at the factory was highly sophisticated machinery. It was intended to export goods to Australia at the cost of perhaps 200 or 300 jobs at the home base factory in Australia. Even if the Australian worker worked for nothing in those factories, I doubt very much whether he could compete against the highly sophisticated machinery that was in South East Asia. There seems to have been no control over the outflow of capital from Australia to South East Asia. An amount of $11 5m has been invested in South East Asia in these manufacturing industries setting up a rather unfair trade between Australia and South East Asia. I am not against the development of South East Asia. I am not against development at all. But I am rather concerned about the direction that development is taking. 
We travelled down the east coast of Malaysia and visited a number of kampongs. We found that the people in those kampongs were happy. They had good community lives. They were harvesting the sea for the fish and harvesting the land for vegetables and fruit. As I say, they had excellent community lives. Towards the south of the east coast a town called Kuantan was being built. The Malaysians intended to try to entice more manufacturing industries into Kuantan. If it was intended to employ the people in Kuala 
Lumpur- the people who did not have any other means of livelihood-this would be fine. It might be all right. But it was intended to employ the people in the kampongs down the east coast of Malaysia. Who would be employed? It would be the strong and the able. What would happen to these communities? It is anyone's guess what would happen to them. What I am trying to say is that I am concerned about the direction that this development takes. 
Let me return to quote from the article written last year in the  West Australian  newspaper. It goes on to state: 
His words - 
That is the words of the Prime Minister- echoed a strong opinion among back bench members of the Government that it was time for the business sector to show more enterprise after all the concessions given to it since the change of government. 
A prominent back bencher with wide business contacts said: 'If business can not rake up some confidence after all we have done for it, then maybe it is time to do a bit of nationalising'. 
Many a true word is spoken in jest. This Liberal Party back bencher said that the business sector does not respond- 
I am quoting from the West Australian of 1 9 August 1976. 
The article does not say. I am only quoting from the newspaper. The honourable senator may take this up with the author of the article. As I say, many a true word is spoken in jest. I am not suggesting that the nationalisation of our inefficient industries will get us out of the morass the Government has put us into. We should not delude ourselves: The Government certainly has led us into a real morass so far as the industrial section of the nation is concerned. Honourable senators opposite talk about the responsibility of the trade union movement and about what its responsibilities should be. Honourable senators opposite keep blaming wage increases for all the ills that beset the nation and for their own inefficiency and inadequacies. What do we mean by 'more responsible trade unions'? For what must the trade union movement be responsible? It has to be responsible for the wages and the conditions of its members so that they can live with dignity in 1977. This is the field of responsibility. I agree that that responsibility should go much further. That field of responsibility should extend into the decision-making area. Trade unions should make decisions at the point of production, management and control. Until the responsibility is extended into those fields, I am afraid there will always be strife in the manufacturing industries in general. At one dme the trade union could negotiate with an employer. It could come to some form of agreement with the employer. There was such a thing as loyalty- a misused word. The employee felt part of the firm. He had this feeling of belonging to it. 
Now a feeling of alienation exists because the employer himself is only a sub-contractor of some other national or trans-national company. So the feeling of alienation grows. A disenchantment exists amongst the work force- a disenchantments that hire purchase companies cannot remove with motor cars, refrigerators and colour television sets. That disenchantment exists and it will always exist until more responsibility is put on the shoulders of employees- and that responsibility has to be in the decision-making and planning processes. I am not talking just about worker participation. I do not mean that the bosses make the decisions and the workers participate. I am talking about the democratisation of industry, and if honourable senators opposite do not believe that that is what the situation is going to be in this country, I am afraid I have nothing but pity for them because there is no way that they are going to screw down the trade union movement. This Government tells us that the responsibility of the trade union movement should be to screw down wages to the level that suits it and the employers. Well, they can forget that and they can forget it now. They will have to extend the area of responsibility into the decision-making field before they can get peace and harmony m industry. They are deluding themselves if they believe anything else. What is required is common sense, negotiation and a proper understanding of the trade union movement. I am sure the Government lacks these things very much. 
I am not talking to the honourable senator as an individual. If he does not like it, just keep quiet and listen in the meantime. Common sense is required. The fear of hell is a hangman's whip to keep the wretch in order. Only a few months ago we had a situation in which Bjelke-Petersen, Charlie Court and Mai Fraser got together and decided to introduce some other form of repressive legislation to get the wretch in order. They can forget that one too. I think it is a sick joke when they believe that they can bring down repressive legislation in order to screw down people to a level at which they would desire them to be. They may as well forget it because there is no chance of it ever happening. They still have to use common sense and negotiation before they can make any advancement. We need a greater democratic state in industry and complete organisation of industry in this country before we will make any advancement. I am afraid that I can see the whole Budget only as a recipe for greater unemployment and there is no way whatsoever I could support a recipe for more unemployment in the country. It looks as though the Government wishes to fight the next election against an army of unemployed and so long as the Government has a lack of understanding in the industrial field and its supporters continue blindly to make the remarks about the trade union movement that have been uttered by the two previous Liberal speakers, I am afraid there is very little hope unless the Government resigns. If the Government is really concerned about the country I think it should resign, and that is about the most sensible course it can take. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it a fact that the Government intends to introduce legislation to amend the Commonwealth Superannuation Act to change the annual adjustment of superannuation payments from one related to the consumer price index figure to one related to average weekly earnings? Does this mean that other payments indexed to the consumer price index, such as pensions and social security benefits, also are to be changed to conform with average weekly earnings? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Will claimants for unemployment benefit now registering as a result of the Victorian strike be paid unemployment benefit under the current system or are they to be the first group to be paid in arrears, that is, before the introduction on 1 November of the system of payment in arrears as announced by the Minister? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek permission to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I refer the Minister for Industry and Commerce to the reply he gave on Thursday of last week to  Senator Sibraa  concerning the source of funds to be made available to the Commonwealth Development Bank for small business financing. The Minister's immediate reply then was: 'Why does the bank not ask the Government direct?' Does this indicate a lack of consultation and, indeed, an element of tension between the Government and the Development Bank? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs on 22 September 1977- 
1 ) Has the Australian Government received reports concerning increased military activity in Irian Jaya. 
2 ) What is the current position on this matter. 
Are reports correct that up to 1,500 people have crossed the border from Irian Jaya into the Sepik River district. 
Is the Papua New Guinea Government or the Indonesian Government informing the Australian Government of what is happening. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to the Minister's answer to  Senator Melzer  and to  Senator Douglas  McClelland this afternoon concerning the creation of a Commonwealth Development Bank in its own right. Did the Bank in its submission to the Government on a proposal to establish a national rural bank state that it had examined the feasibility of creating within the Commonwealth Banking Corporation structure two new banks to replace the existing Commonwealth Development Bank? These were, firstly, a Commonwealth Rural Bank and, secondly, a Commonwealth Industrial Development Bank. Has the Government agreed to the establishment of a Commonwealth Rural Bank but not a Commonwealth Industrial Development Bank? 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether the Governor-General will issue a statement explaining his reasons for prematurely dissolving the Parliament, in accordance with the precedent he established in 1975. If so, will such a statement reconcile the Governor-General's action with the view he expressed in New Delhi in February 1975, namely, that he had to have good and sound reasons for calling an early election? 
During the debate on the salary increase to be granted to the incoming Governor-General I asked you,  Mr President,  whether work value should be taken in consideration. You said that you would listen to the debate as it proceeded and then make a judgment. Naturally, if one is discussing work and work value one must talk about duties and responsibilities.  Senator McLaren  made it quite clear that he was vague about the work, the work value and the duties and responsibilities of the Governor-General. He cited a few examples in which he felt that certain things were the duty and responsibility of the Governor-General. He thought of one occasion when in his opinion, when a vote of no confidence was taken in the House of Representatives, the Une the Governor-General had taken was the wrong line. He used the words 'in his opinion'. He stressed that it was his opinion that the Governor-General fell down in his responsibilities there. 
For the life of me, I cannot see that there was anything disrespectful, especially when we are discussing the work and the work value of the Governor-General which must incorporate his duties and responsibilities. If  Senator McLaren  or any other honourable senator feels that on one occasion or two occasions the Governor-General is not living up to those responsibilities,' especially when a rise in salary is being considered, it is fair enough to say that in his opinion the Governor-General was not living up to those duties and responsibilities. If another honourable senator feels that the Governor-General was living up to those duties and responsibilities, he has the opportunity to correct what  Senator McLaren  had to say. For the life of me I cannot see that there was anything disrespectful. In the Senate we are rather supersensitive about the position of the Governor-General. We must take this into account as well. I feel that there was nothing disrespectful in what  Senator McLaren  said. We must bear in mind when we are making a judgment on this, that we are talking about salary rises and work value. Duties and responsibilities must come into the matter when we are making such a decision. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is it correct that the Prime Minister's Principal Private Secretary has sought a consulting position with MAN Australia Pty Ltd, a substantial engineering and automotive company? If so, does his proposed departure from the Prime Minister's staff immediately prior to an election display a singular lack of confidence in the prospects of the Prime Minister? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 1 9 August 1977: 
1 ) What estimate does the Government have of the price elasticity of demand for petrol. 
2 ) Who prepared the estimate. 
What percentage decline in purchases does the estimate predict would follow a price increase of about 15 per cent ( 1 1 cents per gallon). 
If the Government has no evidence of the price elasticity of demand for petrol, how will the 1 1 cent price rise conserve our petroleum resources. 
Did the Minister for Education write to the  Chairman  of the Australian Council of Independent Business Schools on 19 July informing him that fee subsidies would be terminated? In that letter did the Minister state: 'The Government's decision must be regarded as final and is not one which I would seek to have reversed*? Other than the fact that there is an election on 10 December, what was the reason for the Government's complete somersault on what appeared to be an irrevocable refusal? Or is it a case of the Cabinet again overruling the Minister? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 September 1977: 
1 ) How many persons were registered as unemployed in each Employment Office area in Western Australia at the end of August 1975, August 1976 and August 1977. 
What percentage of the persons was (a) males; and (b) females; (i) under 21 years of age, and (ii) 21 years of age and over. 
What were the principal work categories of the persons registered as unemployed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 12 October 1977: 
1 ) How many persons were registered as unemployed in each Employment Office area in Western Australia at the end of September 1975, September 1976 and September 1977. 
What percentage of the persons was (a) males; and (b) females: (i) under 21 years of age, and (ii) 21 years of age and over. 
What were the principal work categories of the persons registered as unemployed. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 19 October 1977: 
1 ) Does the Government intend to introduce legislation to amend the Commonwealth Superannuation Act 1922 to change the annual adjustment of superannuation payments from an adjustment related to the consumer price index figures to one related to average weekly earnings. 
Will adjustments to other payments such as pensions and benefits, which are currently indexed to the CPI, also be changed to relate to average weekly earnings. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs whether the Government has considered the question of the nationality of the nearly 2000 Timorese in Australia. What is their present citizenship, in the light of the Government's decision to legitimise the brutal annexation of East Timor by Indonesia? 
I present the following petition from 22 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in the Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on 13 September 1977, Steve Biko, President of the Black People's Convention died, aged 30, while being held incommunicado for questioning in detention without trial in South Africa; 
That this is the 20th death of a black political prisoner in similar circumstances in South Africa in the last 18 months; and the 44th death of a prisoner while in police custody in recent years; 
That Steve Biko had been held in detention since 22 August; and had previously been held for 101 days without trial; and in addition, was under a Five year house arrest and restriction order; 
That Steve Biko is the acknowledged leader of the black people's resistance to apartheid, racial exploitation and injustice in South Africa, and that in this context his death in the hands of the white police must be regarded with grave suspicion; 
Your petitioners accordingly request the Australian Government to register the strongest protest to the South African Government at the circumstances of Biko 's death. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for 
Health. Is the Minister aware of Press and television reports stating that  Dr Jonas  E. Salk, the doctor responsible for the development of the poliomyelitis vaccine, is now in the process of developing a vaccine that he thinks may cure multiple sclerosis? As multiple sclerosis is a chronic crippling disease of the nervous system, but one which unfortunately this Government does not regard as being sufficiently serious to be worthy of consideration for assistance from the Medibank scheme, will the Minister follow up this information and make known publicly any progress that may be made? 
I enter the debate because I feel that my State- Western Australia- has a special case to put in connection with the development and management of water. Australia is a vast, dry continent, and we are all aware of the great responsibility we have in the development and management of water. I often wonder whether the Government is really conscious of Western Australia's geographical position both internationally and in relation to this country as a whole. Certainly I have my doubts concerning the Government's awareness of our significance internationally. When it comes to talking about our vast mineral resources we all think that we are rich, and indeed we probably appear to be until we start looking at the question of ownership and control. The question then arises of just how rich are we. One wonders just how far one should go into that aspect. 
Our development can stagnate if we do not utilise with care and caution such water as is available to us. Western Australia is a vast, dry State. It is a State which covers almost one third of our continent and which has an area that is more than three times that of New South Wales, 1 1 times that of Victoria, almost one and a half times that of Queensland, more than two and a half times that of South Australia, some 37 times that of Tasmania, almost twice that of the Northern Territory and more than a thousand times that of the Australian Capital Territorythe nation's capital. Western Australia has a coastline which represents more than one third of Australia's total coastline, but our population represents less than 10 per cent of the nation's population. Having a dry, arid climate, no one is more aware of the need for forward planning in Western Australia than the people of Western Australia. 
Much criticism has been levelled at the Ord River project. Quite a lot of it has been justified. But I wonder whether we should not take a long term view of the situation that exists there. If methyl alcohol has an important part to play as a future source of energy- I believe that it has- the Kimberleys will provide us with an ideal place to supply Australia with all of that substance that it needs. Indeed, we shall probably be able to export it to other countries also. The Kimberleys are ideally situated for the shipping of such a product to other areas. Most of our vast mineral resources are situated in the Pilbara region, but water will be required for future development there. Surely we do not visualise the future of this area as one which will be used only for the supplying of mineral resources, without an attempt being made to develop it further. 
-We must plan for the development of the Pilbara region if we wish to do more with our mineral wealth than just ship it out by the millions of tonnes. Naturally, the provision of water will take a great deal of money and planning, but water is a necessity to the area. The Fortescue, De Gray and Robe Rivers are in the area. I understand that quite a bit of study has already taken place in regard to their potential. Such development will undoubtedly take a lot of money. But this Government, in setting aside a mere pittance for developing the national water supply, certainly lacks the spark which existed in our forefathers, who decided to build a pipeline from Perth to Kalgoorlie at the turn of the century and who planned the Snowy Mountain project. They had full faith in the future of the country and concern for those unemployed at the time. This Government lacks concern for the unemployed in which its forefathers showed some interest. We have the materials, the natural wealth, the expertise and the skills required; it is just a matter of getting people to work to do something with the country's future and have a bit more faith in what they can do. An amount of $200m is not much. It will not go very far. 
The development of a national water supply would take a great deal of money. It certainly could not be done with the pittance that has been made available by this Government. Much of the water in the metropolitan area of Perth comes from artesian bores. This Government drastically reduced the money available for the deep sewerage program. In fact, I think it cut out funds altogether. When this work stopped it added not only to unemployment but also to the lack of proper sewerage in the inner city. Eventually, this could have an effect on the water supply. In the management of the water supply the Government should make a special grant for deep sewerage to re-employ the engineers, the contractors and the men with the shovels who became unemployed because of the lack of money for deep sewerage. If we do not do something about deep sewerage it will eventually affect our water supply. 
I return to the Ord River scheme. Perhaps we should take a serious look at the Ord River project. Sometimes I wonder whether future generations will be thinking of piping water from the Argyle Lake on the Ord to Perth. I know this would cost large amounts of money. It would probably cost $2 billion. By comparison, the $200m that the Government is providing is a bit of a joke. A 150-millimetre pipeline from Lake Argyle would take 12 years to construct. 
-It probably would be, but a pipeline is something we may have to look at. This Government is not taking the situation seriously when it is allocating only $200m. It is a joke. The proposal for a pipeline from Lake Argyle to Perth may have much merit. Earlier today an honourable senator mentioned the possibility of towing icebergs from the Antarctic to Perth. This would involve a continuing expense. At least a pipeline from Lake Argyle to Perth would be permanent. It would benefit not only the people of Perth but also the new mining areas north of Kalgoorlie- the Pilbara and Carnarvon and other developing areas which have never had the benefit of a permanent water supply. 
If Perth is to continue to expand at its present rate the ground water required will increase in direct ratio with the result that the water tables will drop, lakes and streams will disappear and the quality of life will diminish. The building of dams in the south-west of Western Australia could have a disastrous effect on the already fragile environment. The Ord system contains water in massive quantities. Its usage is virtually nil. There is a back-up average rainfall in the area of approximately 700 millimetres a year. This water is pouring into the sea. A greater amount of fresh water pours into the sea than the amount used in the metropolitan area of Perth. Perth has a water shortage of such proportion that what was once one of the city's main features is now rapidly disappearing. I refer to the individual gardens which were as much a part of Perth as were its hot dry summers. We were told that there was a drought and that things would get better the next year. We have been told that for the past two years. Things have not got any better. We have been told this in the face of world findings that there could be a change in the climate, but we are not sure whether there will be any change. Some of the findings and statistics today tell us that there will be permanent dry areas for many years to come. 
Perhaps there is much merit in looking at the Ord scheme and piping water from it. Perhaps it is not such a joke as  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack said it was. I think he was being facetious when he said that perhaps we could use the water for the Pilbara area. Perhaps this is possible. The cost of a pipeline from the Ord could probably be reduced by using open ducting in those areas flat enough to accept such a method. A pipeline would be of great benefit to the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Ltd, for example which at the moment has lost its European export market. Steel plates for a 1 50- millimetre diameter pipeline that length would amount to approximately 1.5 million tonnes. With continual usage the water supply to Perth from the River could be between 150 million and 200 million gallons a day. With unemployment standing at 600,000 we have no excuse for not developing our nation. 
I support the amendment, but my view is that there is not enough money even to whet the appetite of Western Australia, let alone do something for its future development. Development of our water resources could not only benefit the country as a whole but would also provide useful constructive employment to the unemployed in this land of plenty. 
I ask the Minister for Administrative Services: Now that the Federal Government has completed its negotiations with the Clunies-Ross Estate for a site on the Cocos Islands for an off-shore animal quarantine station, can the Minister inform the Senate of the financial consideration made by the Commonwealth for the acquisition of that site? Have any arrangements been made to ensure that the people engaged on the building of the quarantine station will receive Australian rates of pay or will they be paid in plastic tokens? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) Has the Government considered the question of the nationality of nearly two thousand Timorese people now resident in Australia. 
What is their present citizenship status, in the light of the Government decision to recognise the annexation of East Timor by Indonesia. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister whether it will be necessary for Australia to change its recognition of Indonesia's annexation of Timor from de facto to de jure recognition in order to facilitate the conclusion of negotiations over the exploitation of seabed resources in that area. 
-I ask the Leader of Government in the Senate whether it is a fact that General Yoga Sugana and General Benny Murdani, two top ranking intelligence officers who played leading roles in the Indonesian invasion of East Timor, are coming to Canberra for talks with Australian officials? If so, when is this visit to take place? In view of the critical roles played by these generals, especially Benny Murdani in the brutal seizure of East Timor by Indonesian forces, which has repeatedly been condemned by the United Nations General Assembly, will the Government now reconsider its refusal to allow the Timorese leader,  Mr Horta,  to make a private visit to Australia? 
-I refer the Minister for Administrative Services to a statement made in the other place by the Prime Minister on 1 3 April that the Government would not make any decisions on implementing the report by  Sir Robert  Mark concerning the organisation of police resources in the Commonwealth area until it had fully studied the report. In view of the fact that the review of protective security to be undertaken by  Mr Justice  Hope will include a review of the relationship between State, Territorial and Commonwealth police and in view of the fact that  Mr Justice  Hope is presently calling for public submissions, may we assume that the Government will make no decision on the Mark report until the second Hope report has been presented and made public? 
-Has the Minister for Social Security received a report from  Mr Justice  Kirby of the Law Reform Commission on privacy and de facto marital relationships as they apply to social services legislation and procedures since she referred the matter to  Mr Justice  Kirby. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer him to my question of 6 April concerning negotiations between Australia and Indonesia over the seabed resources between this country and East Timor. On that occasion the Minister said that he would get advice from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I now ask: Firstly, are negotiations between Indonesia and Australia concerning seabed resources between East Timor and Australia still continuing and, if so, when are they likely to be concluded? Secondly, will not the conclusion of any arrangement with Indonesia on this issue effectively amount to a de jure recognition of the Indonesian takeover of East Timor? Thirdly, what is the attitude of the Portuguese Government on this issue? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the fact that the Australian Taxation Office has decided to enforce strictly the taxation of rent subsidies which are usually paid to employees in remote areas of Australia, what additional measures does the Government propose to take to provide incentives for people living in remote and high cost areas such as the Pilbara? Should the Government fail to introduce additional incentives for employees in those areas, will this not cause industrial unrest in those areas and actively work against the Government's decentralisation policies? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. As the principles and procedures controlling the social security appeals system state that appeals may be lodged by personal attendance will the Minister see that this information is printed on the appeals forms to give those people appealing an opportunity to indicate whether they want to state their case in person? Will the Minister also consider requiring appeals tribunals in all States to give people the chance to appeal in person if they wish to do so? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
Do General Yoga Sugama and General Benny Murdani intend to visit Canberra for talks with Australian officials? 
2 ) Did these top-ranking officials play leading roles in the Indonesian invasion of East Timor? 
) When is the visit to take place? 
Will the Government reconsider its refusal to allow the Timorese leader,  Mr Horta,  to make a private visit to Australia? 
The Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill, which we are discussing in Committee, deals with nuclear codes which in effect may exist after consultation with the States. In the letter that the Minister read out and in his own summary of that letter, he said that a code was going to be developed. In other words, the Minister is not quite satisfied with the Bill that has been introduced. If a code is going to be developed, I cannot see the Minister's objections to our amendment, which states in part:   . . a date to be fixed by proclamation: which date shall be after the Commonwealth and the States have further consulted and reached agreement on a uniform code. 
What is the objection to waiting? I fail to see the Minister's objections to that amendment when he himself says that a code will be developed. 
Is the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  prepared to answer the question that  Senator McLaren  and I have asked? I should like to know his specific objections to our amendment. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Under the new health arrangements that have been announced does the Government intend to make any provision for the more than half a million social security beneficiaries who are not entitled to pensioner health benefit cards but whose weekly income is below the poverty line? Is the Government considering issuing special health benefit entitlements, such as under the subsidised health benefits program, or extending the pensioner health benefit program, or extending the pensioner health benefit card to this already financially disadvantaged group? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I wish to follow up a question I asked on 26 May regarding social security beneficiaries who are not in receipt of pensioner health benefit cards. Has the Minister had any assurance from the Australian Medical Association or any other organisation representing the medical profession that they will not demand cash on the nail from this group of welfare claimants who, as the Minister knows, are the poorest of all her Department's clients? Further, has the Minister had any assurance from the AMA that it will accept a pay-doctor cheque for 75 per cent of the total fee as payment from this group? If the Minister does not receive such assurances, will she then make provision for the issue of pensioner health benefit entitlements to these beneficiaries? 
I think that the whole matter has been presented quite wrongly. The Opposition's attitude was not as the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has outlined. In the beginning we were looking for a uniform code. According to the way the Minister has presented the case, it appears that the uniform code for the Commonwealth will be the lowest common denominator. Never mind which State has the highest code and which the lowest, the Commonwealth will have the lowest uniform code if it is going to choose the lowest common denominator and say that that is the code that is going to run nicely and evenly all the way through. That is the Opposition 's objection. There can be no such thing as a proper uniform code while the Government chooses the lowest common denominator to represent that code. 
The Minister for Social Security will be aware that the maximum amount allowable for pensioners to earn before their pension is affected is currently $20 a week and that this rate has been operable since October 1972 despite the fact that the pension itself has increased considerably during the same period. When is it anticipated that the $20 figure will be increased- preferably doubled? 
-Has the Minister for Social Security ascertained the identity of the senior Commonwealth policeman quoted in the Sydney  Sun-Herald  on 28 May as saying that social security cheats have ripped off more than $100m in bogus unemployment benefits'? Who is the officer concerned and what proof does he have for making the statements concerned? How many persons are currently under investigation by police and Department of Social Security officials in connection with these claims, and how many have been charged? 
We could have a situation in which a senator was elected in 1974 for a six-year term, being number one on the ballot paper and was elected again at the 1975 election for another sixyear term and at the end of the second six-year term had completed only seven years. There does not seem to be any provision to cover that situation. 
As I understand it, this anomaly was taken care of when there was an eight-year period of involuntary retirement. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence whether it is a fact that some 400 Army apprentices in all States of Australia are being apprenticed to private builders for their final two years of practical training? How long has this scheme been in operation? What checks are kept on the building firms involved to ensure that apprentices are not simply being used as a form of cheap labour, and does this scheme result in apprenticeships that could have been taken up by young people, who are presently unemployed, being handed over to the defence forces? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of claims made in the Parliament of Papua New Guinea by the Papua New Guinea  Deputy  Opposition Leader,  Sir John  Guise, that the Queensland Government is directly involved in the blackbirding of Papua New Guineans for cheap labour, and that ships operated by the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement in the Torres Strait are luring Papua New Guineans on board with promises of wages and conditions which do not materialise? Has the Minister any information on this matter? If not, will he cause an immediate investigation to be made by the Australian Government? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, relates to a very dangerous situation which has arisen in an area in Western Australia that was occupied by the Army during the last war. It appears that, rightly or wrongly, the Western Australian Government regards the debusing of this highly contaminated area as being entirely the responsibility of the Australian Government. My question is this: Because of the seriousness of the situation and the likelihood of death or injury being caused by concealed unexploded  shells  at Warnbro in Western Australia, will the Minister see that the Army is provided with modern pulse induction metal detection equipment and perhaps make available to the Canberra war museum the equipment that the Army presently uses? 
I present the following petition from 1,181 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we deplore the increased hardships imposed by the terms of the recent budget. 
That we believe that the changes to Medibank will cause many to place their health at risk in an attempt to maintain their standard of living. 
That the Government's budgetary actions will sharply increase the economic gap between those who have and those who have not. 
That the cutting back in real terms of monies allocated for pensioners will cause extra burdens to those already under great stress. 
That the actions of the Government can do nothing but increase the already dangerous level of unemployment. 
That we as citizens of Australia with a great love and concern for our country, fear that this budget will bring dishonour and disgrace by increasing poverty and crime and will sow the seeds of violence within our democratic community. 
Your petitioners therefore respectfully ask that the Government move to lift the onerous burden placed upon them. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services. On 14 April this year the then Minister for Administrative Services announced that this Government would make available free a cassette of the national anthem and national tune to organisations which came within the guidelines for a free issue of the Australian flag. Indications were then given that these cassettes would be available in about four weeks. Some six weeks later it was indicated that they would be available in approximately eight weeks. Recent inquiries reveal that it is not known when they will be available or whether they will be available. Can the Minister throw any light on the present situation of this bungled affair so that organisations which have requested cassettes can be advised as to when they can now expect to receive them? 
I present the following petition from 2,123 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we deplore the increased hardships imposed by the terms of the recent budget. 
That we believe that the changes to Medibank will cause many to place their health at risk in an attempt to maintain their standard of living. 
That the Government's budgetary actions will sharply increase the economic gap between those who have and those who have not. 
That the cutting back in real terms of monies allocated for pensioners will cause extra burdens to those already under great stress. 
That the actions of the Government can do nothing but increase the already dangerous level of unemployment. 
That we as citizens of Australia with a great love and concern for our country, fear that this budget will bring dishonour and disgrace by increasing poverty and crime and will sow the seeds of violence within our democratic community. 
Your petitioners therefore respectfully ask that the Government move to lift the onerous burden placed upon them. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 16 March 1978: 
1 ) How much did the Government pay to the CluniesRoss estate for a site on the Cocos Islands at which an offshore animal quarantine station is to be established. 
Has any arrangement been made to ensure that the people engaged on the building of the quarantine station receive Australian rates of pay. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. It follows questions that were asked by  Senator Bishop  and  Senator Lewis.  Having regard for the seemingly never-ending increase in our unemployment figures and the worsening of our balance of payments situation I believe it to be a rather important question. It appears from an article in the  West Australian  of 12 September 1978 that the specifications covering the aircraft needed for customs work are such that they preclude the use of the locally built Nomad and, no doubt, support the use of faster and more expensive imported machines. Are the specifications surrounding the hiring of these aircraft for customs work so inflexible that they cannot be amended to allow the use of a locally manufactured machine thereby helping to contain the alarming unemployment figures and, at the same time, assisting in reducing the Government's embarrassing deficit? 
Did the Minister for Social Security approve new arrangements whereby householders and Post Office employees are forbidden to redirect mail and cheques going to the unemployed from the Department of Social Security? Are employees forbidden to hold such mail at post offices for collection? What precedents are there for this infringement of personal rights? Is the Minister not concerned that this will disadvantage unemployed persons moving around the country in search of seasonal work and those, who, through no fault of their own, are without a settled address? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following question, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
I ) Were claims made in the Parliament of Papua New Guinea by the  Deputy  Opposition Leader  (Sir John Guise)  that the Queensland Government is directly involved in blackbirding' Papua New Guineans for cheap labour, and that ships operated by the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement in the Torres Strait are luring Papua New Guineans on board with promises of wages and conditions which do not materialise. 
) Has the Minister any information on this matter; if not will he ensure that an immediate investigation is made by the Commonwealth Government. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Has the Attorney-General seen a report that the Ombudsman, Professor Richardson, wants new powers to help citizens fight for social security benefits? Will the Attorney-General consider giving the Ombudsman qualified staff to represent social security claimants in appealing against decisions of the Department of Social Security? Will the Attorney-General confer with his colleague the Minister for Social Security on ways of giving greater opportunity for such people to gain their rights as many, as the Ombudsman says, are terrified by the thought of taking on the Commonwealth? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: Is it a fact that the Government is contemplating the expenditure of nearly $200m on a domestic satellite system? If so, how much more rapidly will national and international news be distributed to the people of Australia when a satellite is in orbit than it is now, with radio? Will the satellite be manufactured and launched in Australia, or will the Government find yet another way of accentuating the already deplorable condition of our international debt? Can the Minister inform the Senate of the effect that the satellite would have in reducing the hundreds of thousands of unemployed, or will it be like Telecom's most recent venture and cause large numbers of trained people to be thrown on to the industrial scrapheap? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I am sure that all honourable senators will be aware of the action contemplated by the Australian bank employees union to achieve the introduction of a 30-hour week. It seems to me that this application for a 30-hour week is a logical reaction to the ever-increasing unemployment caused to a large extent by the introduction of computerisation and compounded by this Government's inability or unwillingness or both to come to grips with the disease that is destroying the youth of this country. Will the Government guarantee not to oppose this application and, further, will it support the principle of a shorter working week without loss of living standards? 
-I present the following petition from 752 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth. 
That we deplore the increased hardships imposed by the terms of the recent budget. 
That we believe that the changes to Medibank will cause many to place their health at risk in an attempt to maintain their standard of living. 
That the Government's budgetary actions will sharply increase the economic gap between those who have and those who have not. 
That the cutting back in real terms of monies allocated for pensioners will cause extra burdens to those already under great stress. 
That the actions of the Government can do nothing but increase the already dangerous level of unemployment. 
That we as citizens of Australia with a great love and concern for our country, fear that this budget will bring dishonour and disgrace by increasing poverty and crime and will sow the seeds of violence within our democratic community. 
Your petitioners therefore respectfully ask that the Government move to lift the onerous burden placed upon them. And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  what would happen in the case of a migrant family settled in Australia which has left one child in its home country because of an affliction of some kind. For example, the child may be blind and the family did not wish the child to leave its environment. Would the family be penalised in any way or is there an allowance paid in circumstances such as this? 

 Senator GUILFOYLE (Victoria-Minister for Social Security)- (2.45)-If the child had not been to Australia the family would not be able to receive an allowance for him. If he were to come here within four years an allowance would be payable. If he were regarded as temporarily absent he could be considered for payment of a benefit, but if there were a long term arrangement under which he would never enter the country then under this provision there would be no payment for him. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 5 (Rate of age or invalid pension (including guardian's allowance payable to an unmarried person)). 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. It relates to the payment of supplementary, that is, rent assistance to pensioners. Will the Minister arrange for a sample survey to be conducted by her Department of unemployed, sickness and special beneficiaries to ascertain the numbers of people who are paying rent so that the cost of paying supplementary assistance to them can be estimated? As the Minister's Department has found that 98.6 per cent of single unemployed and 90 per cent of married unemployed persons have less than $3 a week apart from a pension, will she consider this a priority matter? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
1 ) Will the Army be provided with modern pulse induction metal detection equipment in view of the seriousness and likelihood of death or injury caused by concealed unexploded shells at Warnbro. 
Will the Minister consider making arrangements to present the apparatus currently used by the Army to the Australian War Memorial. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. As the telephones being used at senior citizen centres are for the benefit of pensioners, will the Minister agree that the concessional rents available to individual pensioners should apply also to the telephones at these centres? If the answer is yes, will the Minister issue the necessary instructions so that this small benefit can be enjoyed by this  economically depressed section of our community at the earliest possible moment? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is it possible for an organisation such as the St John's Ambulance Service to purchase a four-wheel drive vehicle without having to pay the import duties and tariffs normally associated with a transaction of this nature, bearing in mind, of course, that the vehicle would be a fully equipped ambulance to be used solely to bring aid to those injured in off-road accidents or to render assistance in areas devastated by natural disasters such as bushfires or cyclones similar to Cyclone Alby which brought great havoc to a large area of Western Australia not long ago? If the answer to the question is no, will the Minister investigate the possibility of his Government implementing amending legislation to allow organisations that are concerned with the saving of lives and the alleviation of suffering to purchase these vehicles free of import duties? 
I ask the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  what are the Government's intentions and what plans does it have for further development of the Naval base on Garden Island in Cockburn Sound in Western Australia? What does it intend to do with the huge area that has been bulldozed and left? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to recent Press reports which in effect state that the Indonesian Government is unhappy with the whole idea of Timorese families being reunited with family' members living here in Australia. Why is the Indonesian Government reneging on family reunions? What does the Government plan to do about it? 
-On behalf of  Senator Melzer,  I present the following petition from 27 citizens of Australia: 
The Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the Victorian Federation of State School Parents' Clubs respectfully showeth:- 
That as citizens of Victoria and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our school be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for: 
Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of S per cent in real terms on base level programs for 1979. 
Restoration of the $8m cut from the Capital Grants for Government Schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. and your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will every pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, by saying that in the Great Depression, that is, the depression before this one, it was the habit of those responsible for the gathering of statistics not to count youths as unemployed wage and salary earners simply because they never had the opportunity to earn a wage or salary. This information comes from  Year Book  No. 40. In the present depression there are many young people who have never had a job and whose ranks will soon be swollen by another batch of school leavers. Will the Minister assure the Senate that those responsible for the compilation of unemployment figures will make sure that those young people are counted? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. How many persons currently in receipt of weekly compensation for total incapacity under the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act have been in receipt of compensation for more than 26 weeks as a consequence of their incapacity? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of this paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I ask the Minister for Science and the Environment whether his attention has been drawn to a report in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of Saturday, 17 February, which referred to a study on vehicle emission controls prepared last year for the Australian Environment Council. Is it a fact, as reported in the article, that the study found that vehicle emission controls introduced in 1974 had led to an 8 per cent cut in fuel consumption of new cars and that this consumption level was maintained in new cars after the July 1976 controls? Is it also a fact that the study found that advances in engine design used in the United States and 
Japan but not adopted by Australian manufacturers have given both better fuel economy and emission control? Will the Minister release the report of this study? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. The statement made by the Minister for Trade and Resources,  Mr Anthony,  in Saudi Arabia on 13 February 1979, pointing out the perilous position the world is moving into because of the present oil crisis, which, in turn, is being exacerbated by the unstable situation in Iran, suggests to me that Australia should be not only looking for alternative energy sources but also preparing a comprehensive and detailed conservation program aimed at lessening Australia's dependence on imported oil. In view of the Minister's statement I ask the following questions: Has any attempt been made to develop a plan that would ensure that the misuse and wastage of oil and its products are cut to a minimum? If the answer to my first question is yes, will the Minister make the details available to the Senate? If the answer to my first question is no, will the Minister explain to the House what his Government intends to do in regard to the problem of getting the electorate to adapt to the conditions that will prevail when the full force of the oil shortage becomes apparent? 
-On behalf of  Senator Melzer,  I present the following petition from 60 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is S6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I rise to speak in this debate because of one point that perturbs me very much indeedAustralia's credibility in international affairs. I have taken notes of some of the comments made by previous speakers in this debate, but I will not go into them too deeply.  Senator Lajovic  was arguing as though we were back in the 1950s and seemed to be very concerned about creeping hordes of socialism. He never at any time worries about the hoarding creeps of capitalism.  Senator Kilgariff  said that the statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  was all about human rights and democracy. He wished to know where Australia stands and what influence it has in the present situation.  Senator Messner  said that Australia remains a critic of aggression, no matter what nation is involved. 
I am concerned about our credibility as a nation.  Mr Anderson,  the Australian Ambassador to the United Nations, in his address to the Security Council on 15 January, when the Kampuchean invasion was being discussed, said: 
The Australian Government and the people have been deeply moved by the suffering which the ordinary people of Kampuchea have had to endure. 
Any such use of external force must be a matter of deep concern to the United Nations, the more so when a small and weak country is attacked by a powerful neighbour. 
My Government therefore considers it urgent that the Security Council should reaffirm the right of Democratic Kampuchea to independence, sovereignty and the integrity of its territory and the right of the Kampuchean people to determine their future themselves, free from outside influences or interference. 
They are very lofty and noble sentiments and they were very ably stated. I agree with the sentiments expressed by  Mr Anderson.  But I wonder where  Mr Fraser  and this Government were when Indonesia brutally annexed Timor. That was an instance of a strong and powerful nation annexing a small nation. What happened when Timor was brutally annexed? This Government, than in Opposition, decided that it would oppose bitterly the Whitlam Government's recognition of Soviet control of the Baltic states. The then Opposition opposed bitterly the de jure recognition of the incorporation of the Baltic states into the Soviet Union, 40 years after the event. But in the case of Indonesia's brutal annexation of East Timor this Government decided to give de jure recognition to Indonesia while the blood was still running in the streets of Dili. I remind the Senate that Indonesia stated that she could not tolerate the trouble on her border; she could not tolerate the differences of opinion within East Timor. We all know that there was very little difference of opinion. In fact there was none. 
There was no difference of opinion at all between the UDT and Fretelin because Fretelin had complete control of the situation. 
On the other hand we have Vietnam. It has been acknowledged by this Government that up to three million people have been brutally murdered or have died of starvation in Kampuchea. We are not too sure of all the facts, but it is considered that the number of people murdered is between one million and two million. What did we decide to do there? We decided to withdraw aid. But the situation is entirely different in respect of East Timor. We are now to give de jure recognition to Indonesia's incorporation of East Timor. The reason for our de jure recognition, of course, is to allow us to exploit the seabed resources between East Timor and our own coast. It appears to me that when it comes to human rights our decisions are based entirely on economic principles. I draw this parallel to illustrate the double standards that are adopted on human rights. It certainly appears to be a question of economics, not of human rights. 
Because of what has taken place in East Timor, we can regard only with the deepest suspicion and cynicism the pious utterances of sympathy and concern for the Kampuchean people that have been made on behalf of this Government. I am very concerned indeed about our Government's credibility abroad when we consider the double standards that have been applied to the situation in East Timor and to the situation in Indo-China. I wonder what the Vietnamese people feel when they are criticised by the Australian Foreign Office. Australia has a moral obligation in the rebuilding of Vietnam. I do not subscribe to what happened in Kampuchea or to what happened in Vietnam, but I am deeply concerned about our position. It would appear that the Government is making excuses for China and has decided that it is far easier to withdraw aid than to abandon trade. It therefore seems to be taking sides with China. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
Will the Minister assure the Senate that those responsible for the compilation of unemployment figures make sure that statistics concerning young people who have never been employed are included in unemployment statistics. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the paving of the Wittenoom airstrip in Western Australia with asbestos tailings by the then Commonwealth Department of Civil Aviation in the early 1970s. As the Minister knows, this material was carted through the town to build the airstrip which is located near the town. In view of the Western Australia's Government's attempts to force people to leave the town because the asbestos tailings are said to be a health hazard, will the Commonwealth government either compensate the people or remedy the damage that it has done? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to the recently reported figures published by the Institute of Applied Economics and Social Research which indicate that a single parent with one child requires $85.30 a week to live beyond the poverty line, and a single parent with two children requires $ 103.50 to escape poverty. In the light of those figures are present social security benefits for single parent families sufficient for the majority not to live in an impoverished state? Will the Government review the present levels of social security benefits for single parent families? Will the Government review the case for a special education allowance for the children of single parent families? 
-Does the Minister for Social Security really believe that her DirectorGeneral was present at the Operations Room of the Commonwealth Police late on a Sunday night when arrests were being made all over Sydney, to give information with regard to pensioners and beneficiaries? Would she not agree that information regarding pensioners and beneficiaries would be best given by other officers in normal working hours and not under such feverish conditions? 
-On behalf of  Senator Ryan  I present the following petition from 90 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the parlous state of the Australian Broadcasting Commission is a matter of grave public concern, and because of the important role of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in the culture and well-being of Australia, we urge the Government to institute an immediate Royal Commission into all aspects of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to allow for a full and open public inquiry. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 4 1 9 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors respectfully showeth: 
That Compensation benefits payable to injured Australian Government employees and Defence Forces personnel under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act 1 97 1 should be increased as a matter of urgency in view of the financial plight of recipients, particularly those suffering long term incapacity and because of the significant increase in the cost of living which has occurred since compensation payments were last adjusted; and 
That statutory provision should be made for the automatic adjustment of compensation benefits. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources a question. It is common knowledge that when the North West Shelf gas field comes on stream the developers intend to export 6.S million tonnes of liquefied natural gas annually. Is the Minister able to inform the Senate of the relationship between the financial benefit to Australia through the export of this LNG and the financial burden to Australia through the importation of quantity of oil that would have a similar energy potential? In other words, is it of benefit to Australia to export one form of energy and to import another, especially when in the main they could both fulfil similar roles? If the anwer is yes, will the Minister be good enough to set out on paper the price structure of both commodities so that the Press may readily explain to its readers the reason for our growing overseas indebtedness? 
I sat here tonight listening to  Senator Rocher  and was absolutely astounded at the stuff that he was coming out with. He has an appalling ignorance of the trade union movement. He is set on some kind of witch hunt, talking about kangaroo courts and the breaking of rules. If a person joins a union, in doing so he is well aware of the rules. If he breaks those rules then he has to face the consequences. 
-Senator Walters can get up and speak after I have finished. If he breaks those rules he has the opportunity to defend himself. I do not care which union it is. A member of that union has the opportunity to defend himself. I do not know what evidence has been submitted against the three or four people who have been accused and I do not know exactly what is the case against them. But I do know the Plumbers and Gasfitters Employees Union of Australia. I know its reputation. It always has been an upstanding union. It may be that some of the members of that union worked during the strike. Union employees who worked at hospitals were mentioned. If honourable senators knew anything about the union they would realise that during a strike it makes allowances for its members who work at hospitals and for ambulance drivers and a whole host of other people. The union makes pretty clear which people will be exempt from taking part in a particular strike action or action of that kind. I do not want to go into the merits or demerits of the case because I am not fully aware of them and I am quite sure that  Senator Rocher  is not aware of them. I want to read a letter which I just happened to have in my drawer. It is a letter written by a  Mrs Lippiatt.  It is probably a couple of years old now. This letter may be a bit of an education for  Senator Rocher. Mrs Lippiatt  was answering a letter from a  Mr Clive  Rutty to a newspaper a while ago. He was going on with a lot of rubbish like the honourable senator was going on with tonight. The letter reads: 
. I say that if he would guide his children along the standards set by the trade union movement they won't go far wrong. 
Explain to them that without unions their world would be a lot different. 
Unions have been responsible for our holiday pay, tea breaks, lunch hours, working conditions, long-service leave and pay leave-loading. These have been mainly achieved by the militancy of pacesetter unions, usually by strike action. 
Let your children know who opposed the Vietnam war and all the horror, suffering and evil that it brought about and from which we are still feeling the effects. 
Praise the tug crews who went out into the storm to rescue a stranded tanker and the SEC workers who go out and fix damaged wires. 
Tell them about seamen and waterside workers who give generously from their pay packets to help their fellow beings. 
Explain to them the danger of nuclear war and how the unions want the uranium kept in the ground so that their future may be safe. 
Teach them to protect their environment and let them know how the unions want it left unspoiled. 
Tell them about the comradeship enjoyed by unionists and the unity that exists and how they are prepared to fight for a cause if they think it is just. 
Let them learn about principles and how much they count. 
Inform them who will fight for safety conditions at their place of employment. 
Explain that without unions no one will be prepared to fight for their rights. 
If you tell your children about the good things that are done by unions, your children won 't want to go out and do the bad things that are a result of a society full of greed and selfishness. 
I think there is a lesson to be learned from  Mrs Lippiatt's  letter. I feel that if the honourable senator had been responsible he would have made a full inquiry into the matter. He would have made contact with members of the trade union movement and asked them what it was all about and then judged the case. I dare say that the honourable senator never once contacted the Plumbers Union in Western Australia. If he did, let him say so. The honourable senator's silence answers me. He went to those three people because he was determined to go on this witch hunt. 
I have listened to the honourable senator in the past. He always makes an attack on the union in some way or another, the same as his colleague sitting next to him. He should go along to the Plumbers Union in Western Australia and find out the other side of the story and then come back and speak during the adjournment debate. I do not think the honourable senator has acted responsibly in raising a matter when he has heard only one side of the story, just because it suits his motivating force. 
The Minister for Social Security in reply to a question recently stated that unemployment benefit should not act as a subsidy for those who choose to have parttime employment. Does she regard supporting parents, widow and invalid pensioners working part time and being paid pensions as receiving a subsidy? 
I will be very brief.  Senator Georges  illustrated his argument well when a point of order was taken. The point of order was that he was not speaking to the matter being debated. It then became a matter of opinion when he said that ultimately he would get to his point. In that way the whole argument against the use of the word 'ultimately ' was demonstrated. It is open to anyone's interpretation whether something will ultimately lead to a particular point. It is on that ground that the Labor Party Opposition and a few members of the Government also seem to see the danger that lies in the use of the word ultimately'. I concur with the amendment which seeks to delete the word 'ultimately' from clause 5. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to her statement last week that the reason for the greater free area for supporting parents and pensioners, that is, $20 a week as against $6 a week for the unemployed, is because the unemployment benefit is a temporary payment. I ask the Minister for her definition of a 'temporary payment'. Does she consider that some 45,000 people who have received the unemployment benefit for over a year are on a temporary benefit? Finally, if the Government is unwilling to pay fringe benefits to the unemployed and sick on the same basis as pensioners, why will the Government not increase the free area so that unemployed persons can earn transport, medical and other expenses? 
-I ask the Minister for Education whether his Department is introducing pre-apprenticeship courses in the Australian Capital Territory during 1979? Are the courses opposed by the Confederation of ACT Industry and the Australian Capital Territory Apprenticeship Board? Was the concept of the courses earlier opposed by a committee which consisted of representatives of the Department of Education, the Apprenticeship Board, the Trades and Labour Council, employer groups, unions, the Canberra and Bruce technical and further education colleges and the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations? From which source is the money allocated to support these courses? Above all, where is it envisaged that the graduates of these courses will find employment? 

 - Senator Teague seems to have missed entirely the point that was brought up by  Senator Cavanagh,  which related to a State body. If information is passed to a State authority and that State authority passes it to some other body- it need not be Australia Post- we should ensure that a right of appeal against the action of that State exists. Since the honourable senator has stated that such a person should have that right of appeal, that people ought to be able to redeem themselves, he will doubtless be supporting our amendment. It seems to fall into line with the sentiment he has expressed that a person should have a right of appeal. Where no right of appeal exists in a State, ASIO should not be passing information to that State. I am sure that if the honourable senator had any principle at all he would see that. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Because of an item on the Australian Broadcasting Commission television news on 30 April 1979, most honourable senators will be aware that new coal export contracts are being negotiated between the Utah Development Company and Japanese steel mills for an as yet unspecified quantity of coking coal. According to the same report, the coal will be mined from the Norwich Park field in central Queensland, and the price agreed upon is $54.50 per tonne, the highest price yet obtained for this valuable commodity. Because of the impending energy crisis brought about by both economics and the finite nature of our oil reserves, will the Minister say whether he supports the proposition that a quite considerable loading be placed on all exports of our rapidly diminishing energy resources and that all revenue accruing from the loading be used exclusively for research and experimentation into new energy sources such as the liquefaction of coal, the production of hydrogen, or the development of our intermittent energy sources, for instance, solar, wind or tidal sources. 
 My question is directed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Home Affairs. From a newspaper report in the  West Australian  of 9 April it appears that the Brazilian Government is taking seriously a claim that a multi-millionaire,  Mr Daniel  K. Ludwig, intends leaving his vast holdings in the Amazon jungle to the United States Government.  Mr Pericles  Goncalves, an Opposition member of the Chamber of Deputies, believes that this would mean that the United States would own an enclave in Brazilian territory. Because of the vast areas of Australia- rural, industrial and residential- owned by foreign nationals, would we find ourselves in the same embarrassing situation as Brazil if these nationals were to bequeath their Australian holdings to their respective governments? 
I wish to say a few words on this topic. I felt I had been gagged in the debate. Two or three minutes before  Senator Chipp  stopped speaking, I noticed the Whip on the other side talk to the occupant of the Chair. I do not know, but I suspected then that the gag was to be moved. So, I jumped up on my feet as quickly as possible. I know that I was on my feet first. I felt that it was important that I contribute something to the debate. I desired to say something on the paper. Everyone was eulogising workers' participation. I felt I had something to contribute. I felt that i had walked into a stopwatch in sheep's clothing in relation to the type of participation about which we speak. There are other points that should be made on the matter. I should have had that opportunity to express my views. There were one or two points in the paper that I would commend, but there were others at which I felt we should have had a close look. The opportunity should have been provided to bring those points before honourable senators so that they may have the time to think further on the points mentioned in the report before a fullscale debate takes place on it. 1 feel that I have been deprived of passing those remarks about the paper. Therefore, I am opposed to the motion. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Scott)-  You are not being deprived now,  Senator. 
-I am not being deprived. Well, let me talk about the paper. 
-1 would have commended the Committee for looking at the changed attitude towards authority. There is a changed attitude towards authority. Disenchantment exists in our community. The disenchantment is through our whole society. It is not only towards those in authority upon whom they look as bosses but also towards the Parliament as a whole. Because of the expectations that exist throughout Australia, this disenchantment arises in our society. On page 2 of the paper, mention is made of the impersonal nature of some large enterprises. Not only is there a disenchantment in our society, but also is there an alienation which exists in the work force. It is an alienation which I am pleased to say was noted in the report. I can remember a form of such alienation when I was a shop steward. At one time one could negotiate with the firm and with the boss; one could come to some type of arrangement. But today, with the growth of national and transnational companies, as far as I am concerned, the boss is just in the same boat as the worker. He is only a subcontractor to a national or transnational company. Those are the matters that I wanted to bring up. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator, I  do believe that the Senate is debating the resumption motion. The debate on the paper has been adjourned. Have you anything further to say on the matter of the resumption of debate? 
I am trying to explain why I was opposed to the debate coming on at a later hour today. Those were some of the points that I wanted to bring up and to expand upon. I did not have that opportunity. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  There is no point of order as I see it. The debate has been adjourned.  Senator Mcintosh  was speaking to the motion for the resumption of the debate. Has  Senator Mcintosh  anything further to say? 
Yes, I have something further to say. I was against the motion because I felt that those points were important. I did not have the opportunity to express them. At one point in the document mention is made of democratisation. I felt that at that point the paper was getting to the core of the situation not so much with respect to workers' participation, but regarding the democratisation of industry. Those are the matters that I felt 1 was not given an opportunity to express. The motion, which was agreed to, prevented me from saying those things. It is important, especially in the Senate, to realise that this situation exists. In this Parliament we should realise that it is not good enough to represent people. We have to be a representative of the people. That is how people feel today. They do feel disenchanted. Because the motion was moved and carried, some honourable senators did not get an opportunity to express those views at all. I feel that we should be going through this report thoroughly at a later hour today. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! I point out that the debate on that matter has been adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative.  (Quorum formed) 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Because of the serious nature of the disaster that overtook the nuclear power station at Harrisburg and the increasing cloud of doubt that now hovers over every nuclear power station, can the individual States of Australia act unilaterally by deciding to go nuclear, deciding on reactor design, and deciding on location? As these decisions affect every Australian, should it not be the responsibility of the Federal Government, in conjunction with the Atomic Energy Commission, to say whether atomic power stations should be built or not? If the answer is to the effect that the States do have the power, would they have the power to build fast breeder reactors for power generation? 
I would like to refer to one point which the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  seems to have missed. I am talking from the point of view of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. I consider that it is rather stupid to keep this provision in the Bill. If an ASIO agent is identified in an organisation, his name cannot be revealed. But his work would become ineffective. Word would go around an organisation that an ASIO agent was present, but such information could not be publicised or broadcast. Nothing could be done about it. But he would be a marked man. People would know who the agent was. He would become ineffective. To me the sub-clause is absolutely stupid. 
Amendment negatived. 
Amendment (by  Senator Durack)  agreed to: 
Page 33, clause 90, at end of clause, add the following new sub-clause: 
A prosecution for an offence against sub-section ( 1 ) shall be instituted only by or with the consent of the Attorney-General. '. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 9 1 agreed to. 
Clause 92 (Annual report) 
Amendment (by  Senator Durack)  agreed to: 
Page 33, clause 92, line 23, leave out '3 1 December', substitute '30 June'. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In the financial columns of the  West Australian  of 9 May 1979 it was stated that the proposed increase of 4 per cent in company tax would increase the cost of living by 2 per cent. Does this mean that the Prices Justification Tribunal will recognise that an increase in taxation is a valid reason for allowing the costs of goods and services to be increased? In other words, will a tax that is aimed at the higher echelons of society be immediately transferred to those people on lower income levels? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. As there has been a number of reports suggesting that local telephone calls will be metered and charged for on a time basis, can the Minister say whether it is true that time metering equipment is already being installed in Melbourne and other places so that this method of charging can be used in the compilation of telephone accounts? 
I wish to contribute briefly to this debate. In many ways, what I have to say is related to the contribution made by  Senator Elstob  to the debate on the Supply Bill. Estimates Committee E, of which 1 am a member, questioned the representatives of the Department of Productivity on the subject of safety on 3 May 1979. That inquiry arose from a question by  Senator Mulvihill  of  Mr H.  J. Ryan concerning a dispute that existed between the Stevedoring Industry Authority and the Waterside Workers Federation concerning an overhead crane. The upshot of all of this was the part that the Department of Productivity played in regard to health, safety and welfare was explained to the Committee. In fact, the Acting  Chairman  of the Committee,  Senator Jessop,  remarked that  Mr Ryan's  contribution had been very helpful but that he had detected from what had been said that such recommendations as came from the Department were merely given in an advisory capacity. I asked  Mr Ryan  further: 
Would you be subject to the State inspectorate then? 
I was asking whether, in matters of health, safety and welfare, the Commonwealth would be subject to the state inspectorates.  Mr Ryan  replied: 
Yes, I believe so, on a gentleman 's agreement basis. 
That statement was supported by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney),  representing the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee).  Frankly, I do not believe in gentlemen's agreements when it comes to health, safety and welfare. I do not believe that there is such a thing as a proper gentleman 's agreement on that subject. I asked further: 
What would the legal position be if a State inspector came and found that you were below standard. Could he bring a case against the Commonwealth? 

 Mr Ryan answered: 
I am not a lawyer, but I think the answer would be no. 
The Minister added: 
That is a hypothetical question, lt is only of practical significance if there is any suggestion that the Commonwealth is not observing standards. 
I accept what the Minister had to say but, again, it is based on a gentleman's agreement. I believe that the Department of Productivity is working hard to achieve uniform standards; but I do not think it is good enough that those standards cannot be policed in any manner. 
All too often we hear about strikes and loss of production and their effects on the government, the community and the economy. Regularly, the finger of scorn is pointed across the chamber at us, as though we were personally responsible for strikes when, in fact, constantly we are trying to analyse their cause rather than their effect. On the other hand, the Government seems more concerned about the effect of strikes than about their cause. This is so, even though it claims to be trying to foster decent industrial relations. I do not see how it can achieve them if its attitude to strikes is such that it always embarks upon a union-bashing expedition and begins to talk about the amount of time lost in strikes. 
The reality of the situation with regard to the effect of strikes is not quite so bad when one looks at the statistics on accident rates in this country. Upon referring to the statistics for Western Australia, I found that the number of days lost because of industrial disputes amounted to 159,800, and that the number lost because of industrial accidents amounted to 430,420. Almost three times the amount of time was lost due to industrial accidents as was lost in industrial disputes. I then inquired of the Bureau of Statistics as to the Australia-wide figures and found that the only figures available were those for 1973-74. In that year, some 2,634,700 man-days were lost because of industrial disputes. There were 300 fatal industrial accidents, and 5,050,000 working days were lost through industrial accidents. Those figures do not include the Northern Territory, Commonwealth employees or industrial diseases. They are made up only of compensation accidents in industry. They are 1973-74 figures. 
Not once have I heard honourable senators on the other side of the chamber talk about lost productivity caused by industrial accidents, which seem to amount to three times that lost in industrial disputes. It is far easier to attack unions for calling for a right to fight for wages that will enable people to live with the dignity and expectations of 1 979. It is much easier to fight against them achieving this than it is to fight to do something about industrial accidents in this country. We should be doing something more positive about the number of industrial accidents. Australia is behind the eight ball even in the supplying of figures. The International Labour Organisation gives figures for mining and quarrying accidents. The Australian figure is approximately equal to figures in most underdeveloped nations. Figures are supplied to the ILO for coal mining accidents. Again, the accidents in Australia are on a par with those in most underdeveloped nations. Australia does not supply figures for the manufacturing and construction industries, or for railways. Last week  Senator Davidson  spoke very highly of the amount of information available to honourable senators through the Parliamentary Library. I agree with him. I think a great deal of information is supplied to honourable senators through the Library. However, I feel that when it comes to the figures for accident rates in this country we are very far behind. In the Green Paper of October 1 975 entitled 'Policies for Development of Manufacturing Industry' Jackson states: 
Official statistics about industrial accidents are inadequate. As near as we could find out, work-time reported lost in Australian manufacturing industry through industrial accidents which resulted in claims for workers compensation was about 7,100 man years in 1972-73. This compares with a total of about 6,100 man years lost through industrial disputes in the same year. Although simplistic this comparison gives an indication of the economic cost of industrial actions. The cost in terms of human suffering is immeasurable. 
I was informed that for some time the Australian Bureau of Statistics has had a program for the uniform collection of industrial accident statistics. Such programs collate the agency or cause of an accident, the type of accident that caused the injury and the type of location of the injury resulting. It would also relate injury or injuries to industry, occupation and the resulting time off work. The program would also collate similar material on work-related disease. However, because of staff ceilings imposed on the Australian Bureau of Statistics it cannot do anything about those figures. The Bureau has figures only up to 1973-74. 
The Government is very much concerned about the loss of time in industrial disputes but when it comes to time that has been lost through human suffering, which is three times the amount of time that is lost through industrial disputes, there is no one on the Government side in the least interested in the figures. 1 make  Mr Macphee  an exception. He has mentioned the matter on two or three occasions. The average Government back bencher has never shown any interest whatsoever in loss of work through industrial accidents. I do not wish to labour the point but I make it quite clear that, come the August sitting of Parliament, I intend to push further into the field of industrial accidents in Australia. I also give fair warning to the Department of Productivity that it should make available its experts in the field of industrial health, safety and welfare because I intend to find out just how far the Department has gone. Up to date I have been told that officers of the Department have three or four meetings a year with the State Ministers. These meetings would be to the taxpayers' expense and I am sure they will want to know how much advancement is being made in trying to find uniform standards. 
The position is deplorable in some of the States where the State inspectorate is responsible to the Department of Labor and the Department, being an employer of many people in the States, therefore is censured by one of its own employees; in other words, Caesar is trying to do justice to Caesar. I do not believe that the Commonwealth Government should be in a position where it cannot be taken to court by the State inspectorates. I believe there should be a Commonwealth inspectorate. It should be divorced from the Department. It should be autonomous, so in cases where safety is below standard something can be done about it. I do accept that the next fitter and turner who steps up to a grindstone to grind a tool and has an eye accident will not be the first, or the last, to have such an accident. Because of climatic conditions, thoughtlessness or whatever one likes to attribute it to, this will happen. However 5 million working days are not lost in a year just through the lack of temperature control or thoughtlessness on the part of a worker. 
It is a thorough disgrace to come into this chamber and be castigated by Government senators about loss of productivity through strikes when three times that amount is lost through industrial accidents. The Government does not seem to be concerned about the people involved. Of course, this attitude manifests itself in the manner in which the Government dealt with Medibank. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. In view of the fact that the Minister for National Development has brought down an energy policy statement, when can I expect an aswer to my question on notice which I asked on 28 March 1979? I was seeking information regarding the relationship between the financial benefit to Australia through the proposed export of 6.5 tonnes of liquefied natural gas and the financial burden to Australia through importing a quantity of oil that would have been used for similar energy potential. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to the Prime Minister's recent visit to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and his failure during that Conference to announce any contribution by Australia to the Common Fund being set up to improve the terms of trade in commodities throughout the world. I ask the Minister whether the Government is to make a contribution to this fund? If so, when will an announcement be made on this? Is the Minister presently able to give any indication of what amounts are being considered as a proper contribution to this fund? 
-Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate confirm that the reasons for the Treasurer's announcement yesterday that the deficit will overshoot estimates by about $746m this year are: firstly, the Government's failure to appreciate that demand for tobacco, spirits and beer would drop when prices rose after the excise increases in the last Budget;  secondly, the fact that there are fewer taxpayers because of the rise in unemployment; thirdly, the higher than anticipated dole payments; and fourthly, tax evasion? Will the Minister agree that the shortfall being caused in this way was due to the Government's failure to understand the economic problems confronting Australia when it put together its Budget last year? 
-I ask the Minister for Science and the Environment a question which follows the most unsatisfactory answer he gave to a very serious question asked by  Senator Wheeldon.  Will the Minister check with his Department to see to what extent such earth movements are monitored and will he discuss the matter with the Minister for National Development? 
-On behalf of  Senator Melzer  I present the following petition from 150 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent t of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity: Is it correct that at present the Australian Bureau of Statistics has gone part of the way in preparing a program for the uniform collection of Australiawide statistics on man hours lost due to industrial accidents and disease and on the causes of such accidents and disease but that this program cannot be instituted because of staff ceilings set by the Government? 
I draw the attention of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  to a circular which was put out by the Commonwealth Police Officers Association of Western Australia. In particular, I draw the Minister's attention to one pf.ragraph of that circular which states that the police officers claim: 

 Sir Robert Mark's recommendation in this area was that there should be a civilian-type guard for areas classified 'low security'. 

 Sir Robert Mark's reason for this concept, as quoted by the Association, was as follows: 
The effect of such a change would be to release Police Officers for duties on which they could be better employed. 
Clearly, he envisaged that the policemen currently performing these functions would be replaced by non-police civilians. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer whether he can assure the Senate that the result of the current inquiries by the Australian Taxation Office into the affairs of the Reliance group of companies will be made known to the Parliament. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. I was very interested to read the Minister's glowing report on the activities of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation in the recent address that he gave when opening the Industrial Design Institute of Australia Commemorative Forum. The activities of the scientists and officers of the CSIRO are surely most commendable, but can the Minister inform me of the extent, if any, to which they are involved in developing a process to extract oil from coal; and can the answer be given in terms of dollars allocated? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 5 June 1979: 
1 ) Does the Australian Bureau of Statistics, or any other Government department, collect statistics on the number of man hours weeks lost through industrial accidents and diseases arising out of work-place conditions. 
) If yes, to what year were these statistics current. 
) Is it correct that these statistics are not collected by the Commonwealth Government department responsible, but by State Government instrumentalities. 
If yes, to the preceding question, are the statistics collected by the State instrumentalities collected by a common system according to common criteria. 
If the answer to question (4) is no, what are the differences in collection and criteria between each of the States. 
If the answer to question (3) is yes, do any of these statistics detail: 
a ) time lost through work-related or caused disease: 
causes of accidents and disease: 
industry or enterprise to accident/disease comparisons; 
types and extentofinjury; 
whether measures were taken to prevent the recurrence of injuries/diseases caused by work. (Please provide State by State details). 
For the last five years that both series of statistics are available, please provide a comparison of the number of man days lost through: 
industrial disputation; 
industrial accidents. (Please provide the criteria of definition, description, and classification of industrial disputation). 
8 ) Has the Australian Bureau of Statistics gone part of the way in preparing a program for the Australia wide collection of statistics on the cause and effects of industrial accidents and disease in Australia. 
9) If the answer to the preceding question is yes, what details would this program collect and collate if implemented. 
If the answer to question (8) is yes, why has this program not been implemented. 
1 1 ) If the answer to question (8) is yes, how many persons would be needed to staff the program, and what would be the estimated cost of implementing this program. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Does the Government agree with the estimate of the Treasury, as set out on page 6 1 of statement No. 2 of the Budget papers, that average weekly earnings should rise from 9 per cent to 9.9 per cent? If so, how can it deny that wage earners receiving between $4,500 and $7,085 will have their income tax increased by between 2 1 and 64 per cent? If the Government does not agree with the Treasury statement, what is its own projection of the changes in average weekly earnings? I ask the Minister to resist the temptation to reminisce and, instead, to project. 
I would like to associate myself with all the remarks of  Senator Sibraa  and many of the remarks of  Senator Knight.  I cannot comment on 

 Mr Renouf because I have not read his book. I noted what  Senator Knight  had to say on  Mr Renoufs  comments about trade commissioners. I would like to read his book to try to appreciate what he was getting at. I am not trying to defend or to condemn him, but if the trade commission functioned at the expense of the consular service the chances are that I would agree with him in many ways. I also mention the fact that  Senator Sibraa  brought to the notice of the Senate the fact that he objected- I think we all objected- to being used as a sort of arbitration commission by the Department of Foreign Affairs. He seemed to think that officers of the Department could come and discuss their wages and conditions with the Committee. That is not what it is all about. I do not believe that any trade union movement, and there should be a trade union movement, should have direct access to a parliamentary committee. However, that was a rather small feature of the Committee's task. 
I point out to the Senate that in Great Britain the Government set up a 'think tank'. In 1976 the Central Policy Review Staff was asked to review British overseas representation. At that time the country's confidence was at a rather low ebb. The value of the pound was low, the inflation rate was high and social tension was growing. After a year's study the Committee came down with recommendations which were influenced by the atmosphere at that time, as I feel the decisions of this Government were influenced by what it believed to be the atmosphere at the time. Britain's interests were viewed in narrow terms. Pessimistic views were expressed on Britain's ability to influence foreign affairs effectively. It was argued then that Britain's influence was determined by its economic performance and that the diplomatic heads had illusions of grandeur. Some of their arguments sometimes were similar to those which we hear about the Australian posts. 'We can't afford the luxury of a post in Bombay', was one of the things which were said. Later on we closed that post, which had cost a lot of money. Then we had to re-open the post. I think  Senator Sibraa  mentioned the other posts with which that happened. It was a rather pennywise and pounds foolish move which did little credit to Australia. 
In 1 978 the British Government brought down a White Paper which more or less brought some sanity to the 'think tank's' report, which intended to slash the British foreign service more or less to the bone. In fact, the  Daily Telegraph  in Britain summed up what happened with the White Paper which the British Government brought down and which was critical of the think tank's' recommendations. The paper stated: 
The Government 'Think Tank's' radical proposals for chopping and changing Britain's overseas representation were nearly all rejected in a White Paper yesterday. 
All that remains of the controversial plan are some comparatively modest cuts in the numbers posted abroad, a scheme for better liaison between the Foreign Office and other government departments, and a promise of further review of some bits ofthe official machinery. 
Proposals rejected include closing of 55 posts abroad, abolition of the British Council, and sharp reduction in the BBC External Services. 
And the 'Think Tank ' gets little support for its call for substantial cuts in the kind and cost of diplomatic entertaining abroad. 
As for its contention that the Diplomatic Service is using too many good men in jobs that could be done by lesser mortals, the White Paper says stiffly: 'It is precisely because our power as an individual nation is diminished, while our interests remain global, that Britain's future is more dependent than ever on the skills of those who represent us abroad '. 
I feel that that applied to Australia in many ways. Australia's image abroad was represented by those people, irrespective of what the Government thought economic conditions in Australia were at the time. The Government just jumped in where angels would fear to tread and slashed everything it could. We took a rather narrow view of our Foreign Affairs Department, and on our penny-pinching expeditions, without regard for the future, we observed only a narrow view of the present. We did much damage everywhere with those staff ceilings. A government that considers itself to be a responsible government and decides to make Public Service cuts should be prepared to say exactly where those cuts will be made and what it is prepared to do without. It should examine things not only in the short term, but also in the long term. This applies to the cuts in general and to those in the Department of Foreign Affairs in particular. It is all very well for the Government to say that it wishes to economise and then to dive in and cut the quota, saying: This is all the money you are going to get'. The Government is not prepared to say how the Department should administer that money, who it should do without, and what services it is prepared to do without. 
I believe that the Government was rather vicious in its cuts in the Foreign Affairs Department and that that affected our image abroad in many ways. I think that we are most unwise in the way we administer money abroad. I do not believe that we should have the luxury of places such as the one in Paris, which I believe at present is up to its armpits in water. Nevertheless, we should have modest accommodation of which we can be proud. People serving in these posts should have every requirement for them to do their jobs, without necessarily living in the lap of luxury, which they do not do. For example, I visited our post in Sri Lanka and, quite honestly, I though that the conditions there were disgusting. They were worse than the conditions in which the staff of Parliament House have to work, and they are pretty bad, as we all know. 
I should like to read from the report one further extract on staff ceilings. I seem to be harping on staff ceilings, but their effect has been felt throughout the length and breadth of the country, and in the Department of Foreign Affairs in particular. The report states: 
Wa further reduction ofthe staff ceiling of the Department of Foreign Affairs is considered necessary by the Government, the Committee recommends that the reasons be fully investigated and justified in full consultation with the Department beforehand, rather than handed down for implementation. 
The point I wish to make is that we should be prepared to investigate thoroughly the effect of staff ceilings. We seem to be complaining continually about this. We complain about it on committees, and just before the close of the last sessional period I complained about the lack of statistics from the Australian Bureau of Statistics, which was due to cuts in staff ceilings. The Committee 's report continues: 
The Committee has received no evidence which suggests that the Department's staff numbers should be further reduced. On the contrary, the Committee is satisfied, on the basis of preceding comments and details referred to later in this report, that there is a need for modest expansion, and recommends that this be provided for, commensurate with Australia's increasing activities and responsibilities internationally. 
I believe that in regard to Asia in particular that matter should get consideration. 
-Is the Minister for Science and the Environment aware of a report carried by the Australian Press earlier this month that an accident at the French Muroroa Atoll atomic testing range may have been responsible for several deaths, a number of other casualties and a minor tidal wave? Has the incident been monitored or otherwise investigated by his Department? If so, will he inform the Senate of the result of the investigation? If there has been no investigation will he inform the Senate why? 
-Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware of reports that a significant percentage of refugees in Thailand have given famine as the main reason for their flight? In the circumstances, will the Government reconsider its refusal to provide humanitarian relief to Kampuchea and Vietnam? The Minister will recall that in 1960 the absence of diplomatic relations with China was not allowed to hinder the development of trade relations. 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
To what extent in terms of dollars allocated, if any, are the activities of the scientists and officers of CSIRO concerned with developing a process to extract oil from coal. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Further to his answer to questions from Senators Davidson and Wriedt regarding aid to Kampuchea, I ask: What stage have negotiations between the international agencies and the Kampuchean authorities reached and when can it be expected that the aid set aside by Australia will reach the Khmer people? If no such agreement is in sight, will the Government consider giving the aid to the Kampuchean authorities direct, for immediate distribution to the starving people of that country? 
-I refer the Minister representing the Treasurer to the recent High Court of Australia decision in Raimondo v. The 
State of South Australia, in which the court noted that one Australian is killed every working day in industrial accidents, and that the annual cost of such accidents amounts to $2 billion. The Minister will be aware that the Treasurer, in answer to a question that I put on notice, recently advised that a $ 1 50,000 Australian Bureau of Statistics program to identify and analyse the causes of these massive costs to industry and Australia's productivity has been shelved because of staff ceilings. Can the Minister explain how such a small cut in the Government's spending is cost effective, given the high cost that industrial accidents impose on Australian productivity? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 3 May 1 979: 
Will the Minister support proposals that a quite considerable loading be placed on all exports of Australia's rapidlydiminishing energy resources and that all revenue accruing from the loading be used exclusively for research and experimentation into new energy sources such as the liquefaction of coal, the production of hydrogen or the development of intermittent energy sources, such as solar, wind or tidal, in view of the impending energy crisis: if not. is the Minister then prepared to allow the status quo to prevail whereby the Utah Development Company not only exports great quantities of coking coal but also exports all the profits earned, thereby depriving the people of Australia of any benefits, from a product which is the property of the people of Australia. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources aware that a Japanese study group has been actively researching the Rundle shale oil field in Queensland with a view to interesting Japanese oil firms and investment houses in developing the area? Can the Minister say whether total finance for the project is coming from Japan? If this is not the case, what equity will Australia have? Can the Minister say what the Government's policy will be in regard to the export of oil from the project? 
I have listened to the arguments put up by  Senator Don  Grimes and  Senator Cavanagh.  I have been very impressed with those arguments. The reply of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  perturbs me a little. She did explain to  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Grimes  that the $780 was only a guideline and that the Commissioner can approve costs in excess of this limit when he sees that it is necessary, or when he feels that it is justifiable. If this is the case, if the $780 upper limit is really only a guide, why bother putting the extra $80 on to the $700 in the first place? The $700 would just be a guide too. I feel that the increase of $80 is probably more than justified. Suspicions are raised in my mind- as  Senator Cavanagh  has said, possibly in everybody else's mind- why there is an increase of $80. If the $780 is only a guide, why was not the $700 only a guide? After all, the Commissioner can go in excess of the amount that is stated. Why bother about the $80, unless there is some reason for it? I wonder whether the Minister can explain to me why the extra $80 is only a guide. 
-Given the critical need for humanitarian aid to alleviate the desperate position in Kampuchea, I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Why is the Government restricting its aid to one ship load of rice- which will not even arrive in Thailand, let alone Kampuchea, until the end of October- and one plane load of supplies, when a United Nations official has stated that approaches are available through the United Nations World Food Program for Australia to make immediate cash grants to purchase readily available supplies through Bangkok to get aid to Kampuchea now? Given the clear evidence that it has been possible for international agencies to get aid to Kampuchea under the control of both the Pol Pot forces and the Heng Samrin regime despite the restrictions imposed on the aid personnel by the Heng Samrin regime, why is the Government not taking a lead in getting large scale aid to Kampuchea? 
I would like to draw the attention of the Senate to the wording of the motion, which is: 
The failure of the Australian Government to adopt an even-handed approach to the Kampuchean problem by its continued support for the Pol Pot regime and its failure to respond with sufficient promptness and generosity to the urgent need for relief and aid. 
We are not here to discuss the geophysical situation, as seems to have been happening to date. At the moment we are not much concerned about that. We are not debating the rights and wrongs of the regimes which have fought for power and control in Kampuchea. We are not going over old ground; we are talking about the lives of millions of people. Can one imagine a million people dying of starvation? If we counted to one million, taking one second for each number, and counted for 24 hours a day it would take more than 10 days to complete the task. We are talking here of human lives- every one of them a person. The number could be as high as two million. I do not wish to recall 1969 and the saturation bombing by Americans of Cambodia, what happened under the Lon Nol regime when 500,000 people died and half of the population became refugees, or what happened under the Khmer Rouge or the Pol Pot regime. I wish to go over the sequence of events that took place in this chamber. We have known since June what the position was in Kampuchea. We have been quite well aware of it. If we had not been aware of it something would be wrong with our foreign service. 
On 1 1 September the first question was asked in Parliament regarding the situation in Kampuchea. I asked  Senator Carrick  whether the Government was willing to send aid there. I reminded him of the fact that the lack of diplomatic representation in China in no way prevented trade with China. The lack of diplomatic representation in Kampuchea should in no way deter us from trying to find ways and means of getting aid through to Kampuchea.  Senator Carrick  's reply to my question was: 
I have not seen the report to which the honourable senator refers. Perhaps he can direct my attention to its source. 
In his reply he also said: 
The Government had decided to terminate its aid to the area on one very good basis. The Vietnamese were sustaining a very severe military action. 
He went on to say: 
I would be happy if  Senator Mcintosh  could direct my attention to the source of his information. 
The information has been floating around since June. I went in to see  Senator Carrick  that afternoon and I gave him a copy of a report from the Australian Council for Overseas Aid. Representatives of the Council had interviewed refugees from Kampuchea and in the main they were informed that the refugees had come out of Kampuchea because of the food situation and famine that existed there. That was not all I gave him. I gave him a copy of reports from the  Lamont  paper, which is quite a reliable source, stating the situation in Kampuchea, and reports from the  Guardian  and the  Washington Post. 
-You tell me later.  Senator Carrick  said he would read the reports. I expected a reply from him the following day. Instead, I found that  Senator Carrick  did not reply. In the House of Representatives on 12 September the first question that was asked by a member of the Government was on the Kampuchean situation. That was the first statement made on the situation in Kampuchea. The Minister in his response said: 
In response to a recent approach from the World Food Program, the Government has approved the immediate provision of 3,500 tonnes of rice for distribution in Kampuchea by the World Food Program. 
That was the first statement. There was nothing before that. I know that the statement from the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  as to what the Government policy was on the deplorable situation that existed in Kampuchea was very good. There was nothing wrong with it. I am not complaining about it or debating it. 
-You just pull you woolly head in for a while. 
Does it matter a cracker if I cannot name one? People are dying there by the millions. Have I got to name who is the first person who is in before you make a move? Are you prepared to watch them dying and say: 'Unless someone else can make a move before us we cannot be discredited '? As far as I am concerned,  Senator Knight,  procrastination for political point scoring - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Jessop)-  Order! I suggest that  Senator Mcintosh  direct his remarks through the Chair. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, how about telling  Senator Knight  to direct his remarks through the Chair. He is trying to cover up his conscience. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I would appreciate it if  Senator Knight  would desist from interjecting. 
The first statement came out on Wednesday 12 September but we had known since June about the situation in Kampuchea. Of course nobody else had given aid so we were just waiting to see who would move first. On 13 September I expected that  Senator Carrick  might answer my question of 1 1 September but the first question from a member of the Government parties on that day was from  Senator Davidson.  It is quite interesting what  Senator Carrick  had to say in reply to  Senator Davidson's  question. He said: 
As to the general situation in Kampuchea, the Government has made a number of statements over recent months. 
I think that is really interesting. I challenge  Senator Carrick  to show me the statements that had been made over recent months. When I took the reports to him, he was not aware of what was going on. He had to see the reports. Yet he was prepared to say on 12 September that the Government had been making statements over recent months. He also said: 
Certainly, the refugee problem, the shortages of food and the nature of the regime there will tend to aggravate the increase in the number of boat people. 
I do not see how this connects up. Nevertheless, that is the position  Senator Carrick  was in. He knew nothing about the situation. He had to see these reports. Yet he said that the Government has been making statements for months on the situation in Kampuchea. I expect a reply from  Senator Carrick.  I would like to see the statements issued prior to 12 September on the situation in Kampuchea. On the radio program  AM  the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  said, and I think this has been quoted already: 
We are facing a huge tragedy of the most extraordinary dimension, not just through famine and disease now but with a heightening of the war, and unless people are prepared to not allow politics to stand in the way and get medical supplies in, then the suffering will be immeasurable. 
I think it is worth noting the reference to not allowing politics to stand in the way because the suffering would be immeasurable. Is that not being political? He knows full well that it will be the end of October before the 3,500 tonnes of rice reaches Bangkok. I know what  Senator Sim  said but I am quite sure that when it was announced on 12 September that that aid would be given the Minister was not aware of the stocks in Bangkok that could be released by the announcement of that aid. I am quite sure he was not aware of it then. I refer to a question asked by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Burns)  on 20 September in the House of Representatives. In reply the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: 
I have decided that part of the initial rice contribution of 3,500 tonnes should be used immediately to replace rice obtained locally, lt is to be distributed to approximately 100,000 starving people in the area adjacent to the Thai border. 
That is the area that is under the control of the Pol Pot regime. The Minister talks about the distribution of 3,500 tonnes of rice to 100,000 people. Where is the even-handedness in such distribution? It seems a phenomenal amount of rice to be distributed there. On 25 September  Senator Carrick  said: 
In fact, the Government acted very quickly in terms of making known its intention to supply a substantial quantity of foodstuffs. 
He said that the Government acted very quickly, but we have known since June about the situation in Kampuchea. 

 Senator McINTOSH You pipe down, you will have your say later.  Senator Carrick  also said: 
Some 1,000 tonnes of rice already have been delivered- 
That amount has been delivered in that space of five days. That is a phenomenal amount of rice to be delivered in five days. I do not know where the Minister got his figures. According to  Senator Sim,  we are getting only a very limited number of things through to Kampuchea. I just do not know where we are in this whole mess. I think we have been dithering and messing around. Statements have been contradictory. Let us be honest about it. Australia has been doing anything but acting promptly. Aid can be got in; we know that from a number of sources. The following statement was made on a radio news program at 7.45 this morning: 
In Tokyo yesterday the Vietnamese Embassy issued a statement saying Vietnam would not oppose any aid Western countries could provide as long as it was not used as an excuse for intervening in Kampuchea's internal affairs. 

 Senator McINTOSH There are numerous reports saying that aid can get in and I believe that we could have done something. If the Government had lived up to its responsibilities, it would have acted long before now. I repeat for the benefit of  Senator Knight  that genocide through procrastination for political point scoring or for any other silly purpose, as far as I am concerned, is just as reprehensible as outright slaughter. 

 Senator McINTOSH think this Government has quite a sin to answer for in relation to its procrastination since June. 
-Put it on notice. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. The question is rather apt in view of the situation in Kampuchea. Will the Minister inform the Senate whether his Government is prepared to support Ampol Petroleum Ltd in its stated proposition of converting food to ethanol for the purpose of decreasing a reliance on imported fuels? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1979: 
What is the reason for the most recently published industrial accident statistics in Victoria being at least two years behind those in all other States. (See answer to Senate Question No. 1675,  Hansard,  2 1 August 1979, page 75). 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. It now seems certain that the commercial production of, firstly, a light battery-powered van and then a passenger car will begin in 1 980. Because of the newness of the venture and the small throughput, they will be about 40 per cent dearer than conventional vehicles. Because of the important role that these vehicles will play in the conservation of petrol, will the Minister be prepared to recommend that sales tax on these units be waived? 
On 29 August this year I asked the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  whether he was aware of a report carried by the Australian Press earlier in the month that an accident at the French Mururoa Atoll atomic testing range may have been responsible for several deaths, a number of other casualties and a minor tidal wave. I asked the Minister whether the accident had been monitored or otherwise investigated by his Department, and I further asked him to inform the Senate of the result of any such investigation. Finally, I asked him whether it was the case that no investigation had been carried out and, if that was so, whether he would inform the Senate why this had not been done. At that time, the Minister was unable to provide me with an answer to my questions, but undertook to do so. For the enlightenment of honourable senators and the public, I will read the letter I received from the Minister on 4 October 1 979. It states: 
Dear  Senator. 
I refer to your question without notice, on Wednesday, 29 August, 1979, regarding reports of accidents at the French nuclear test site on Mururoa Atoll. 
There were a number of press reports during August about accidents at the nuclear test site on Mururoa Atoll in French Polynesia. Early in the month, the Australian Embassy in Paris was instructed to seek details of the accidents from the French authorities and, at that time, made known the concern in Australia about these reports. 
The French Atomic Energy Commission confirmed that there had been two recent accidents at Mururoa Atoll. On 6 July, two technicians died after a chemical explosion and a fire. On 26 July, six people at the test site were injured when a large wave swept over the road around the Atoll. 
The French authorities assert that the type of large wave which swept Mururoa Atoll road on 26 July cannot be created by shock waves generated by nuclear explosions and that the timing of the wave did not coincide with the timing of any nuclear test. They have instituted an enquiry into the accidents and an expert mission from France will visit the Atoll shortly to carry out an investigation. The Australian Government is continuing to monitor developments. 
With regard to possible dangers to the Australian population from French nuclear tests, the Australian Radiation Laboratory maintains a continuous detection and early warning program to monitor radioactive fallout over Australia. My colleague the Minister for Health has advised me that no anomalous increase in airborne radioactivity has been detected in this surveillance program. 
Yours sincerely J. J. Webster 
Since I received that reply, a number of developments have taken place regarding these incidents. After these accidents in July, the French Polynesian Territorial Assembly, the popularly elected representatives of the people who live in the area, resolved that the French Government had to suspend atomic testing at Mururoa until a Territorial commission of inquiry had carried out its own inquiry into safety at the site. The Assembly also called for a visit by impartial civilian radio-biologists and for the establishment of a permanent laboratory conducted by independent professional researchers. As the Minister has noted, the French Government then set up an inquiry into the accidents but has gone no further in meeting the demands of the Assembly. 
The French Government inquiry has five members, two of whom are members of the Atomic Energy Commission, which insists that the July accidents were industrial accidents with nothing to do with nuclear tests. A third member is also a government employee. The Minister's answer indicates that the Australian Government's attitude is a passive one of monitoring developments. The Minister also noted that the radioactive fallout over Australia is being monitored. Presumably this refers only to atmospheric monitoring. I ask the Minister to clarify whether the Australian Government or any other independent group that he is aware of is monitoring the effects of this nuclear testing, particularly on the marine life in Mururoa Atoll area. I raise this matter because the effects of radiation on marine life surely could be just as damaging to mankind in the long term as atmospheric tests. 
I have explained the measures that the people in the area are demanding to ensure that the tests are being conducted in such a way as to minimise any danger to them. I urge the Minister to use his good offices with the Government to make sure that it supports the demands that the Territorial Assembly made to the French Government that the tests at Mururoa be made as safe as possible. Australia should play a more active role by offering an impartial team of experts to carry out radiation tests in the area. This should not just be done for the altrusitic reasons of benefiting the people of French Polynesia but also because the location of the Mururoa Atoll makes the safety of the tests of critical importance to all people who inhabit the Pacific Basin. 
I remind the Minister that the Labor Government played an active role in the International Court of Justice and opposed atmospheric tests that the French were carrying out at Mururoa Atoll. Since 1975 the French have been underground with their tests. I sincerely hope that the 
Government has not been underground with its care and concern for the Pacific and what is happening around Mururoa Atoll in particular. I ask the Minister to use his good offices to make sure that some independent testing, especially of marine life, is carried out in the area. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Will the Government consider supporting the proposal made recently by Prince Sihanouk that a new Geneva Conference on Kampuchea be constituted with a view to seeking, as a matter of urgency, a settlement of the present tragic situation that exists in that country? 
I wonder whether the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  has given any consideration to the effect that this legislation will have on industrial relations. I am considering it from the point of view of a trade union going before a commissioner whose authority will be completely undermined in the eyes of the trade union movement. A union will feel when it goes before a commissioner that it can never be sure what the commissioner is going to say when he consults with a presidential member. Furthermore, since in the eyes of the unions the presidential members will make the decisions, does the Minister consider that the unions will continue to put cases before the commissioners? When they go before the commissioners they will be saying: 'We do not want to talk to the butcher; we would rather talk to the block'. The unions will try to overcome this problem the best way, and any way, that they can. All the time the commissioners would be losing authority in the eyes of the unions. All that has to happen is for the commissioners to bring down two or three decisions that do not suit the trade union movement for them not to be sure whether the decisions were the commissioners or the presidential members.  Senator Harradine  touched on that point when he asked whether there would be a transcript kept of the discussion that goes on between the commissioner and the presidential member. I feel that the Government has completely ignored the industrial relations question by bringing in such a clause that undermines the authority of the commissioners in the eyes of the trade union movement. If the Government is concerned about industrial relations I think it should reconsider the implications of this clause and the damage it is going to do to industrial relations. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister, follows the question on Kampuchea that I asked yesterday. I am rather concerned about the lack of clarity on the situation in Kampuchea and what appears to be the lack of moral principle. What realistic proposals does the Government see for a solution to the Kampuchean crisis? Does it regard the prospects of a United Nations sponsored peacekeeping force and supervised elections as realistic? If not, is it responsible to call for the immediate withdrawal of Vietnamese forces when the only real alternative on the ground is the discredited and brutal Pol Pot forces? 
The presentation of the report on this complex subject followed a most thorough investigation by the Joint Committee on Publications. The Committee concluded that the Australian Government Publishing Service had made a significant contribution to Commonwealth publishing and recommended that the AGPS should be retained but with greater independence from the Department of Administrative Services. The Committee also concluded that, in turn, the Government Printer should be given more independence from the AGPS and that he should be under the administrative control of the Secretary of the Department of Administrative Services, not the AGPS. The Committee felt that the responsibilities of both the AGPS and the Government Printer should be defined in a character of responsibilities set down by the Cabinet. It is a good thing that the Government has accepted that there must be a charter of responsibilities. However, it is disappointing that the charter that the Government envisages is different from what the Committee as a whole has recommended. 
The Government has accepted many of our recommendations, which is gratifying. Nevertheless, it is disappointing that some of the major recommendations relating to the AGPS and the independence of the Government Printer have not been accepted or have been modified. I am pleased that the salary and status of the Government Printer will be improved. I trust that this increase will be one that is befitting the position of Government Printer and at least equal to that of his State counterparts. I have not had an opportunity to study the Government's response in detail but I am sure that the Committee will want to go through the details of it at a meeting. I am also quite sure that it would be happy to take part in further discussions with the Government on this matter. 
I have been listening to the debate since it started yesterday and I have noticed quite a number of misstatements. That is why I knew that  Senator Rae  was not in the House when he said that he was in the House. The Bill before us is to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
-I said that that is why I knew that you had not spent the time in the House that you said you had spent in the House. 
I have answered the honourable senator's question. What more does he want? This Bill has been very badly handled since the very beginning.  Senator Bishop  gave the Government an opportunity to adjourn the debate while negotiations went on so that the Bill could be handled a bit more competently than it has been handled by the Government so far. The only reply of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  to that was that the Bill had no time limit on it.  Senator Harradine  then moved to try to put a time limit on the adjournment to meet the objections of the Minister. This still did not suit the Government; the Government was determined to push on with the legislation. Here we are living in a post-industrial revolution society. We are entering a new technological age. But honourable senators opposite are concerned about seeing how they can screw the workers a bit harder with repressive legislation. It is disgusting to see what is going on. 
I want to speak about quite a number of things that have been said in this House.  Senator Elstob  seems to have covered most of them. Nevertheless, a saying that has come up time without number is that one man's wage increase will cost another man his job. I do not care who coined the phrase; I think it is silly. Surely to goodness we cannot say that because the workers are looking to increase their wages so that they can live with dignity in 1979 this is costing another man his job. Let us look at some of the figures and try to analyse what is happening in our society. These figures were taken out at the beginning of the year. From 1971 to 1974 the manufacturing industries created 10,800 more jobs a year; community services, 36,500; wholesale and retail traders, 36,400; finance, 13,200; and public administration, 1 1,400, making a total of 108,000 new jobs a year between 1971 and 1974. 
Since 1974 the position has completely reversed. The manufacturing industries have shed 60,000 jobs, construction, 15,000 jobs and transport 2,000 jobs, making a total of 77,000 jobs that have been lost. These jobs have not been offset by any increase in employment in other areas. After hovering around 1.5 per cent for years, unemployment rose dramatically to 4.5 per cent in 1976. The continuing loss of jobs in industry and commerce, combined with staff cuts in public administration, has resulted in unemployment rising to 7.6 per cent of the work force. These figures were taken out in January 1979. The situation is a lot worse today. According to the Commonwealth Employment Service, there were 493,5 16 people without jobs as at January 1979. 
Recent statements issued by the Department of Social Security indicate that the total number of unemployed is likely to increase to more than 600,000 by 1980. That is the Department's statement, not mine. The Federal Government forecasts an annual net increase of about 1 10,000 jobs in the work force up to 1985, with about 250,000 young people leaving school each year for at least the next 10 years. This net increase in the work force means that approximately 130,000 jobs a year would need to be found for the next five years even to reduce unemployment to the 1 976 figure of 4.5 per cent. In other words, this Government will have to change a loss of 79,000 jobs a year into an increase of 130,000 a year, a difference of 200,000 jobs. At present indications it does not look as though that will be achieved. Instead, the Government is trying to introduce this legislation which will only aggravate the industrial relations situation. 

 Senator Watson had quite a bit to say about the recent wage rises. I wonder whether honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber can bring down a formula of what they see as a decent living wage for 1979, a living wage that will enable people to meet the expectations of 1979. They should present these figures and then start judging why people are going on strike. They should bring down a judgment after they know what is a decent wage. Instead of that, the Government is condemning people who are trying to achieve some decency in life and some decent wages to meet their obligations. Has any honourable senator any idea what it would cost to live in the dignity of 1979 with the expectations of 1 979? 
I am asking honourable senators opposite. They are the ones who are passing judgment and condemning people for going on strike to try to get decent wages.  Senator Watson, Senator Jessop  and  Senator Missen  produced figures to show how much time had been lost in industrial disputes. Have they any idea why people go on strike and why they are willing to lose wages? They are fighting for a principle in the same way as the Government expects men to lay down their lives for a principle. Surely to goodness they realise that people do not go on strike for the fun of it. They go on strike because a principle is at stake. 
I have not heard anything mentioned about the time lost in industrial accidents. Why do honourable senators opposite not speak about that? That is too difficult a problem. They would rather speak about strikes in order to justify to people why they are bringing down legislation such as this. In Western Australia last year 159,800 days were lost in industrial disputes. Is that not disgusting? The number of days lost in industrial accidents was 430,420. Three times the number of days was lost in industrial accidents as was lost in industrial disputes. We never hear a word about what we can do about that. Men go on strike because of accidents. I will give an example. When a rig was to be built by Transfield ( WA) Pty Ltd a big hole was scooped out of the sand and the erection of the rig was commenced. A three-inch electric cable ran across the sand and down to the rig so that the welders and everybody else could work on the rig. It went through a hollow that filled up with water. I was in the office when the men rang up from Transfield. They said: 'We have had it. Get that electric cable shifted. We do not intend to work while it is there. It is pelting with rain'. One day passed, three days passed, a week passed, 10 days passed. Nothing was done about the matter. The next time the men telephoned they said: ' We are out. We are on the grass. We have had it. We will not work while that cable is in that water'. 
This legislation will prevent people from being paid for the time that they are on strike. Those men were on strike for six days. Sure, they were paid for those six days after a long struggle and a hard fight by the unions- those bad Communistled unions. I think it is disgusting to expect people to work in those conditions. The way that the Government completely ignores the accident rate in this country is disgusting. It is willing to condemn people for losing time in industrial disputes but industrial accidents do not seem to bother it in the least. Two or three honourable senators have mentioned the strike in Western Australia.  Senator Cavanagh  covered it adequately. He said that the strike was over when the Police Act was invoked which inflamed the strike again. How many honourable senators know what the seven-week strike in Western Australia which they have all condemned was all about? Did anyone telephone or try to find out why the men were on strike for seven weeks? Honourable senators opposite are prepared to condemn people for going on strike but they are not prepared to judge what the strike is all about. Those men were on strike for seven weeks because they had come to the end of their agreement with the firm. They started to negotiate a new award. They put in a 27-page claim. They got back a 147-page counter claim. When they read through the counter claim they found that it proposed a reduction of $15 a week in their wages. What did honourable senators opposite want them to do? Did they want the men to stay and work just to please them? Sure, people will go on strike. There will always be strikes. 
Reference has been made to the communists in the union. I think it is unionists who are in the unions. I refer to one of these big bad communists, Jack Marx.  Senator Rocher  will know him. He used to go into the north-west fairly regularly. When there was a dispute he explained to the men: 'Look it has to go to arbitration. Just wait'. He was nicknamed 'Back to work Jack'. This is the bloke who is pulling people out on strike. That is what the men named him. He was forever saying: 'For goodness sake hold your peace. Take it easy. The arbitration system will eventually deal with it'. In the end the men had to pull on a strike to make sure that the matter was dealt with. Another of these big bad wolves in the trade union movement is Harold Pedon, a communist, who I believe has very high principles indeed. I only wish that many people on the other side of the chamber had half the principles that Harold Pedon has. I remember an occasion when he pulled some men out on the grass. When he was being paid his wages at the end of the week and they handed him his cheque he said: 'Put it into the strike fund. I feel responsible for what has happened here. ' He was personally involved in that strike, and he should not have been. None of our organisers pulls people out on strike. They are told by the men on the job when they are going out on strike. The organisers dare not tell them. 
I was  president  of the Amalgamated Engineering Union and  president  and vice-president of the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union, and the meetings I enjoyed most were the monthly shop stewards ' meetings. The organisers sat there, the shop stewards lined up and each one told us exactly what was happening in his workshop and how the men felt about a situation. The organisers say Sweet Fanny Adams. They are told by the shop stewards. The backbone of our movement is the shop steward organisation, which is in touch with the men on the floor. I am fed up with listening to this talk about organisers pulling men out on strike. Honourable senators opposite have not got a clue about what is going on. It is all right for  Senator Baume  to nod his head. He has not a clue what happens in industry. 
I hope the honourable senator is agreeing because I am telling him the truth about what happens. Anyone who wishes can make inquiries about what goes on in the union movement. The organisers are told whether the men are going on strike. The organisers do not tell the men; they dare not. If they dare suggest anything like that, they have had it. 

 -If Senator Rocher will tell us about the cases where that is not true we will make inquiries. I know what happens. One of the jobs I have found very difficult when dealing with shop stewards is to convince them that they ought to take things easy because an arbitration commissioner says this and that. The general feeling running through the shop floors now is that the men object strongly to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The Government is now taking things to a stage where the unions will draw out of it. If that happens, the Government will have plenty of trouble on its hands. How does it think the pilots got on? They would not cop this rubbish and they withdrew from the Commission. They do not have to come under the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. We registered under it and we can withdraw from it. I would find it very difficult indeed to dissuade union members from pulling out, and that is what a lot of shop stewards will want to do. That is the sort of unholy mess the Government is going to bring on its head. If it continues to act like a megalomaniac with the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, that is what will happen. The unions will pull out. Quite frankly, after listening to this debate, if I had to go back and chair one of these meetings I would not be arguing against my shop stewards' desire to pull out. Marx and Pedon and the others continually argue for their unions to stay in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for the sake of the smaller unions, but the Government is now dragging them to the stage where they will pull out, and that will be on the Government's head. 
I do not have much more to add. I believe that we should take a far more sensible approach to conciliation and arbitration. Industrial relations is a very delicate matter. Government members seem to have the attitude that industrial relations is a means of keeping people at work while the boss goes on making profits. The feeling that exists amongst a lot of unions now is this: 'I don't know what it is, but whatever it is I am against it.' I am very sorry about that situation. We should be looking at this new technological era and tackling it with the unions, finding out where we are going as a nation and how we intend to get there, instead of waiting until the whole lot falls on our heads and we are fighting the next election against an army of unemployed. That is where we are headed.  (Quorum formed). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 26 September 1 979: 
1 ) Why is the Government, in view of the critical need for humanitarian aid to alleviate the desperate situation in Kampuchea, restricting its aid to Kampuchea to one shipload of rice, which is unlikely even to arrive in Thailand till the end of October 1979, and one plane load of supplies, when a United Nations (U.N.) official has stated that approaches can be made through the U.N. World Food Program for Australia to make immediate cash grants for the purchase of readily available supplies through Bangkok in order to provide immediate aid to Kampuchea. 
Why is the Government not taking a lead in providing large scale aid to Kampuchea, in view of the clear evidence that it has been possible for international agencies to provide aid to areas of Kampuchea under the control of both the Pol Pot forces and the Heng Samrin regime, despite the restrictions imposed on the aid personnel by the latter regime. 
I direct my question to the Minster representing the Prime Minister. It was reported in the  Age  of 15 October 1979 that world-wide military spending reached a massive $US425,00Om last year and that military expenditure has been increasing at a rate faster than that of world inflation for the seventh year in a row. Will the Prime Minister be prepared to make a statement condemning this outrageous waste of human and natural resources? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I would also like to voice my opposition to this clause. As  Senator Grimes  stated, the Government wishes to return to the days before child endowment and before other benefits which are now accepted in our community. I think the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  wishes to return to those times. I have the impression that she would like to go back to the Victorian days, the days of the master and servant and what  Government senators consider  to be normal. I am afraid that those days have gone. The Government is now creating a weapon to turn worker against worker in the community. This provision does not assist industrial relations in the least; in fact, it is a deliberate weapon to turn worker against worker. The Government is only further aggravating a situation to which I referred and at which  Senator Harradine  hinted in debate on the Conciliation and Arbitration 
Amendment Bill. Some of the larger unions will end up withdrawing from the conciliation and arbitration system even if it is only a means of hiding the names of their members so that this provision of the Bill cannot be implemented. 
The Government is affecting innocent people. Take the example which I have already given to the Senate, namely, that of a strike over safety conditions. If a union goes on strike because of a safety  feature and members of that union  employed elsewhere are affected by a hold-up in production caused by the people on strike, those people will be deprived of the unemployment benefit through no fault of their own. Surely no government would condemn people for going on strike over a safety issue. I know that this Government condemns people for striking when seeking a decent standard of living or a decent wage. 
It is all right for  Senator Walters  to shake her head, but I challenge her to write down what she considers to be a decent living wage, taking into consideration the expectations of 1979. If the honourable senator writes it down, then she can start arguing when people receive more than that amount, provided it is a proper and decent wage. In the meantime, the Opposition is concerned about innocent people who would be deprived of the unemployment benefit through no fault of their own over a strike about safety conditions. I outlined the circumstances of a strike at Transfield (WA) Pty Ltd. It involved a three inch electrical cable being under water. After a lot of rain the cable was eventually covered by water and the people went on strike. Surely the Government would not condemn them for doing that. Yet, it is proposed to deprive the people of that union who did not go on strike but who could have been affected by the holding up of production on a particular line. 
There is no allowance made at all for strikes that could be considered to be completely legitimate. Those people who went on strike over that safety feature were able subsequently to obtain their wages. This does not happen on every occasion; not always does a court award them the wages they lost while on strike. Suppose scaffolding on a job is unsafe and the men decide to go on strike but nothing happens about it. The people affected cannot even claim the unemployment benefit, even though they became unemployed through something that had nothing at all to do with them. I think it is a very hard piece of legislation and I believe that it is purposely designed to try to break the trade union movement. It is such a heartless piece of legislation that I cannot see any other motive behind it. This clause makes it obvious that this is what the Government is trying to do. 
-I think the Government should answer to the public. 
I wish to reinforce the point just made by  Senator Harradine  about protecting members of unions. It was a point which I mentioned earlier. What will happen is that the unions will protect their members by not revealing their names. The Government will force them underground. While I am on my feet I may as well say that this collective responsibility that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  keeps talking about reminds me of Nazi Germany where villages were wiped out because of so-called collective responsibility. Are we seeing shades of this now in this type of legislation that is coming forward? Are we seeing the Government move so far to the right that it is practically mimicking what took place in Nazi Germany? This is the first step towards that type of collective responsibility. Whole villages in Nazi Germany were persecuted because of so-called collective responsibility. It has been pointed out here time without number that many innocent people will suffer because of this particular clause in the legislation. Therefore, I feel that the Minister should take up the suggestion made by  Senator McLaren  and re-think that whole clause, because it will cause nothing but industrial strife throughout the country. It does not enhance industrial legislation at all. 
It will create chaos throughout the community. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) Has the Department of Transport extended the lease of the Perth Airport carpark from three to three and a half years in favour of Wilson International Proprietary Limited, of 3-5 Bennett Street, Perth. 
Did the Department call for tenders; if so, how many tenders did the Department receive; if not, why not. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. In a media release dated 25 October 1979 the Minister for Trade and Resources stated: 
The Government has decided to introduce a further basis of exemption from duty for coals which in current market constraints can only be used as steaming coal. 
Is the Minister for Trade and Resources of the opinion that his statement prompted an immediate response from UBE Industries Ltd of Japan, because on 30 October 1979 it doubled its order for steaming coal from Coal and Allied Industries Ltd? The contract calls for the delivery of 47 million tonnes over 20 years. Is the Minister aware that steaming coal is about to become the most highly prized energy source now that the generation of nuclear power has proved to be too dangerous and too costly? Is it the intention of the Government to deplete this country's energy resources as rapidly as possible by offering bargain basement prices when the only beneficiaries are the purchaser and the oil companies which now seem to own most of our coal, gas and oil? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 18 October 1979: 
What action is proposed by the Government in relation to the recent proposal of Prince Sihanouk that a new Geneva Conference on Kampuchea be constituted with a view to seeking, as a matter of urgency, a settlement of the present tragic situation in that country. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 23 October 1979: 
What are the realistic prospects for a solution to the Kampuchea crisis. 
Is the establishment of a United Nations sponsored peace keeping force and the holding of supervised elections a realistic prospect for a solution; if not, is it a responsible action to call for the immediate withdrawal of Vietnam's forces when the only real alternative on the ground is the discredited and brutal Pol Pot forces. 
1 direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question which refers to the announcement last Friday by the Deputy Prime Minister that Australia will send a 1 10-man force to monitor the ceasefire in Rhodesia. Will this not be a very expensive exercise? Can the Minister advise me of the estimated cost and why similar assistance and funding has not been readily available for East Timor? 
-Has the AttorneyGeneral's attention been drawn to an article in the  Australian  on 13 November in which it is claimed that the Federal Government is under pressure from mining industry leaders to introduce tougher legislation to protect Australian companies from United States anti-trust laws? Is legislation of this type planned by the Government? Has the Attorney-General been approached by representatives of the mining industry or by other Ministers seeking such legislation? 
-Is the AttorneyGeneral aware whether permission was sought from or given by the court for  Mr Chris  Nakis to leave the country? Does the Attorney-General know the present whereabouts of the Crown's chief witness,  Mr Nakis? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 20 September 1979: 
1 ) Has a Japanese study group actively been researching the Rundle shale oil field in Queensland with a view to stimulating the interest of Japanese oil firms and investment houses in developing the area. 
) Is the total finance for the project coming from Japan; if not what equity will Australia have. 
What action is proposed by the Government in relation to the export of oil from the project. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent  Senator Mcintosh  moving: 
a motion forthwith- that intervening business be postponed until after consideration of General Business, Order of the Day No. 248 (Western Australian Aboriginals (Right to Electoral Enrolment) Bill 1979-Second Reading); and 
the motion for the Second Reading of the Bill. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen an article in the Sydney  Daily Telegraph  dated 19 October in which it is claimed that Prince Norodom Sihanouk will soon fly to Australia to seek recruits and money for a guerilla army to help restore him to power in Kampuchea? Has the Minister any information about Prince Sihanouk's intentions in this regard, given the Foreign Minister's statement in the same newspaper article that he understood that the Prince would be coming here and in fact that he, the Foreign Minister, would be meeting him? 
-I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs to an article in the Melbourne  Age  this morning which states that the United Nations General Assembly voted yesterday to reaffirm the right of the people of East Timor to self-determination and independence. In view of the fact that the vote was 62 to 3 1 , with 45 abstentions, can the Minister advise how Australia voted and the reason we voted as we did? Will Australia's relations with Indonesia, and its attitude to the situation in East Timor, be changed in any way by yesterday's vote at the United Nations? 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows: 

It is necessary in speaking to this Bill to summarise the events which led ultimately to its introduction. Always Aboriginal people have faced impediments to exercising effectively the right to vote. Adult franchise as it has applied for all other Australian-born citizens, at least for the lower houses of our Parliaments, has never existed for Aborigines. Sometimes discrimination was oven- Aborigines had to be granted citizen rights before they could enrol. Even now under Commonwealth law and the law of most States Aborigines, though entitled to enrol and vote, are not compelled to do so as are other native-born or naturalised Australians. Even without deliberate legal impediments, the economic and cultural gap between many Aborigines and the mainstream of Australian society imposes a barrier between them and the effective use of the franchise. Other minority groups, as the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  mentioned on June 6, may face similar difficulties. 
This Bill applies only to Aborigines, not because we are indifferent to these other groups, but because the only Commonwealth power relevant in this context, is a restricted powerrestricted that is to make laws pertaining to Aborigines. The Bill 's scope is further restricted to enrolment to vote. It does not encompass actual voting procedures. The reasons I will detail later. The absence of overt legislative discrimination, though a pre-requisite to equality of opportunity to vote, does not of itself guarantee equal opportunity. Difficulties in oral, written or physical communication arising from a different cultural and geographic background constitute an impediment for some groups even if the letter of the law grants equality. Specifically complex or restrictive enrolment requirements present greater problems for people whose background and experience is outside the mainstream of our society. 
Recent amendments to the Electoral Act of Western Australia impose more restrictive enrolment procedures than those of the Commonwealth or any other State with which Aborigines especially will have problems in complying. Whether that was the intention or not, that is the result. This Bill seeks to exempt Aborigines from complying with these restrictive procedures. It will require the State electoral registrar in Western Australia to enrol all Aborigines who are on the Commonwealth roll. 
The chain of events leading to this Bill 's introduction starts from the Western Australia State Election in February 1977. Polling day in the electoral division of Kimberley was turbulent. I will not detail those events, but ultimately an appeal was lodged with a Court of Disputed Returns by the Australian Labor Party candidate, Ernie Bridge, who had been defeated by 93 votes. After prolonged hearings, judgment was given in favour of Bridge with costs against the defendant, Liberal candidate Alan Ridge, then and now a Minister in the Court Government. Justice Smith ordered a new election. When the appeal was first lodged the Court Government was asked to cover legal costs. It refused. Shortly before the judgment was given it magnanimously offered to pay the costs of both parties. Whether its change of policy was due to change of heart, or change of mind after the evidence was given leaving little doubt in anyone's mind about who would win, remains a matter of conjecture. 
Justice Smith found that 96 people had been improperly deprived of their right to vote for Ernie Bridge and for that reason declared the election void- the winning margin having been only 93 votes. The Premier, when confronted with the judgment, dismissed it as 'one man's opinion'. The improprieties found by Justice Smith were those of a group of Perth lawyers who were briefed by the Liberal Party in obstructive scrutineering tactics to be used in polling booths. The objective was to prevent Aborigines from recording votes, or if that failed, from recording valid votes. In one instance, the Liberal scrutineer told the presiding officer that he had telephoned the returning officer, who had told him that 'how to vote' cards were not to be accepted as evidence of voting intentions. The court found that the alleged conversation did not occur. 
Numerous allegations were made by Western Australian Government members that Aborigines had been manipulated by Ernie Bridge or his supporters. One of those allegations, in the form of a letter by John Tozer, MLC, to the  West Australian  was the subject of a libel action by Bridge against Tozer and the newspaper. Judgment ultimately was given in favour of Bridge and $20,000 damages were awarded. The Smith judgment explicitly noted that no evidence of manipulation or malpractice, other than on polling day, had been presented to the court. Notwithstanding that fact, the State Government proceeded with a program based on the assertion that Aborigines were being manipulated and that irregularities were rife in postal voting. 
Amendments to the Electoral Act were brought into the Western Australian Parliament's 1977 spring session. So discriminatory against Aborigines were these amendments that they were opposed in the Legislative Assembly not only by the Labor Opposition, but by half the Country Party, and a Liberal backbencher, and were defeated by the casting vote of the Liberal  Speaker.  The Government's next move was to establish an electoral inquiry under Magistrate Ray. Again the rationale was the elusive alleged manipulation and malpractice. Kay recommended changes to the Electoral Act aimed at eliminating or at least minimising malpractice pertaining to illiterate voters. Some might think this curious in view of the fact that yet again no evidence of malpractice was presented. More importantly, in the context of this Bill, the potential for malpractice which Kay identified, and to which  Senator Chaney  drew attention on 6 June, related to voting procedures, not enrolment. 
The Western Australian Government, however, introduced another Bill this year which adopted most- not all- of the Kay recommendations. It was passed by the Parliament early in October. The major amendment to the State Electoral Act, the amendment which is the target of this Bill- Clause 8 in the Western Australian amendment- is that which requires applications for enrolment to be witnessed by either a justice of the peace, a police officer, a clerk of courts or an electoral officer. Previously applications could be witnessed by any elector, the same as the Commonwealth Act. That amendment, for which we and evidently every other Government in Australia can see no need, is obviously irksome to anyone wanting to enrol or change enrolment. To people with language or other communications problems it is a difficulty. For Aborigines, especially those living in remote areas like the Kimberleys, it is a major deterrent. Except for electoral officers, all the people permitted to witness applications represent authority in Aboriginal eyes. The probability is high that an Aborigine's only previous contact with justices of the peace, policemen or clerks of court, would have been as a victim of the punitive or disciplinary arm of the law. It is no overstatement to say the Aborigines are apprehensive about approaching people in these positions. It may not even be an overstatement to say they are frightened of them. I concede there are Aboriginal justices of the peace at some settlements, but that is far from ubiquitous. 
The Western Australian Government's motives for taking that extraordinary action are, some would say, a matter of conjecture. I suggest, however, that it is not unrelated to the sentiments expressed by Alan Ridge in a letter to one of his supporters, John Fletcher, after the 1977 State elections. Ridge wrote: 
I am hopeful that at some time in the future the Electoral Act will be amended with a view to overcoming some of the difficulties which were experienced on polling day. I can foresee that unless this is done, there could be anything up to 4,000 Aborigines on the roll at the next election and, under these circumstances, the Liberal Party would probably be fighting a lost cause. 

 Mr Ridge did not expect that letter to become a public document. It did so only because the court ordered it. Whether  Mr Ridge's  hope provided the motive for the Western Australian Government decision to impose more stringent enrolment procedures which would apply with special force to Aborigines, clause 8 of the Government Electoral Amendment Bill will have that effect. 
The intention of my Bill is to remove that deterrent or impediment to Aboriginal enrolment for Western Australian elections. It effectively ensures that all Aborigines who have complied with Commonwealth Electoral Act procedures will be included in the State roll for the appropriate district and province. The first two clauses are formal only, and clauses 3 to 8 provide: 
Clause 3, 'Aboriginal ' defined as in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act 1975, 
Other definitions taken from Western Australian Electoral Act. 
Clause 4, Act binds Western Australia and Commonwealth. 
Clause 5, States that an Aboriginal who is enrolled to vote in Commonwealth elections shall be entitled to enrol as an elector for Western Australian elections. 
Clause 6. Supplements clause 5 by stating that a Western Australian Registrar shall not refuse to enrol an Aborigninal for a Western Australian election if that Aboriginal is enrolled as a Commonwealth elector. 
Clause 7. Is a machinery clause that provides that where an Aboriginal is enrolled at a particular address for Commonwealth elections then he shall be enrolled for State elections for a division and province appropriate to that address. 
Clause 8. Supplements the general purpose of the Act by stating that conditions or restrictions other than those set out in the Commonwealth Electoral Act shall apply to an Aboriginal enrolling for elections in Western Australia and in particular states that no requirement as to witnessing shall be placed on an Aboriginal seeking to enrol in Western Australian elections unless the Aboriginal chooses to comply with any general provisions that may exist. 
In summary, therefore, the Bill does no more than guarantee that Aboriginals in Western Australia when enrolling for State elections will receive the same treatment under State electoral law as under Commonwealth law. It allows the State to continue to have its own electoral rolls and does not seek to interfere in the manner the State organises its own elections other than to the extent noted above. On Friday, 9 November  Senator Walsh  rang the office of the Minister, and spoke to his private secretary, whom he asked to tell  Senator Chaney  that if he or his Department believed the Bill had technical defects or was impractical, he and others who had helped prepare it would like to discuss the matter and that we would be willing to make changes. 
Since we have not been approached, I assume that if Government members do oppose the Bill it will not be for technical reasons. I do not know what the view of Government members is, but for a variety of reasons I am hopeful they will support it. If a free vote were allowed, I am certain that many would. On 6 June 1979 the following urgency motion was moved in the Senate: 
That Aborigines should have the same opportunity to enrol and vote in State Elections as in Federal Elections. 
It received the support of the Government and was carried without dissent. In the debate  Senator Chaney  said: 
I have indicated that the Government will support the resolution- it does, subject to the qualifications I am making in this speech. 
The qualifications were of three kinds. Firstly,  Senator Chaney  said he separated what he called the 'general abuse' from the substance of the motion. The Government, he said, supported the latter but not the former. That qualification should not preclude Government members from supporting this motion. Secondly, he drew attention to a number of practical problems associated with voting and in particular the potential for malpractice associated with illiterate voters. All these qualifications, however, applied to voting practices. The Bill deals only with enrolment. Thirdly,  Senator Chaney  expressed a somewhat equivocal attitude to a question of Commonwealth power to control State electoral procedures. He said 'I do not argue that the power does not exist'. I say that it is a matter which will almost certainly lead to legal disputation and about which I think one could mount arguments either way. 
If the Commonwealth eschewed all legislation which could conceivably be successfully challenged in the High Court, given that court's notorious record of both political and capricious judgments, the Commonwealth would scarcely legislate at all. None of the qualifications added by  Senator Chaney  on 6 June provide adequate grounds for opposing the Bill. Indeed, apart from the general support he expressed on behalf of the Government, he pointed out that all disadvantaged people- and most Aborigines are disadvantaged- being without other power, have a special interest in the political power conferred by the franchise. He said: 
But the Government is absolutely committed to the idea that it is of great importance to Aboriginal people that they should be able to exercise their vote; 
These people, being in greater need of assistance, have a particular interest in who forms the Government of the country. For that reason, it is important that they have some say in who should govern the country, or indeed their State. 
In addition to the support given on behalf of the Government by  Senator Chaney,  the strong stand abroad of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  against actions which disadvantage other races must surely lead him towards supporting this Bill. I cannot visualise  Mr Fraser  exposing himself to a charge in international forums of failing to take action which was within his constitutional power to overrule a State government's attempt to prevent Aboriginals from voting. I sincerely trust I will receive Government support and commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Peter  Baume) adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and  Resources,  upon notice, on 29 March 1 979: 
1 ) What is the relationship between the financial benefit to Australia through the proposed export of 6.5 tonnes of liquefied natural gas and the financial burden to Australia through importing a quantity of oil that would have a similar energy potential. 
What is the price structure of both commodities. 
