
 - Mr Deputy Speaker, much as I would like to tell you about the discriminating electors of Denison or to speak of matters attracting wide consensus such as parliamentary salaries, I intend rather to consider a subject without which the Governor-General's Speech would have had very little meaning -democracy. In doing so I want to draw attention to some related matters and prac tices which crossed my mind before I thought about the prospect of entering this House. 
It is likely,  Sir, that  never before has democracy been subjected to such widespread criticism as has been the case since the end of World War II. Much of the criticism has been marked by superficiality. Some of the criticism has been deserved but some has been insidious. Every democracy, by its very freedom, contains the potential for its own subversion. If there is developed a conspiracy to subvert it can operate under the protection of the freedoms to which it is directly or indirectly opposed. As W. H. C. Eddy pointed out, any such conspiracy:   is able to exploit for its own protection not merely the rights essential for maintaining free institutions, but also the ignorance and incredulity of most citizens and a set of techniques for confusing the issues and causing attempts at exposure to rebound and damage not the conspiracy but its critics. 
One of the great weaknesses of democracy in this country has been the absence of consistent constructive criticism from within the political arena but outside the Parliament. Nowhere in Australia have we had a Malcolm Muggeridge, a William F. Buckley Jnr or a Bertrand Russell - people with notable learning who question our institutions, our direction, our establishments. Lest it be thought that by establishments I mean Liberal Party governments, I should mention having spent most of my political life under a State Labour government as establishmentarian and conservative as any good reactionary could wish. 
The lack of educated criticism in Australia has meant the lack of good public argument in the proper sense of that term. In general our politicians and others in the public view have been prone to regard criticism of policies or practices as personal denunciations. Only 40 years ago that great explorer and geographer Griffith Taylor was effectively ostracised from this country for having the temerity to reveal that a large chunk of its interior was desert. When Donald Campbell gave it good publicity by driving over it at several hundred miles per hour we were much happier. Less than 10 years ago neither major political party -to their undying shame - would buy into what 1 believe to have been the greatest issue of public morality here during my adult life: the dismissal of Professor Orr. Even now when Lord-somebody takes his first breath of Australian air on the tarmac and is asked how he likes it, he is away to a good start if he answers: 'What a lovely smell of gum trees', and is patently a liar because kerosene is the dominant odour, whereas he is away behind scratch with the public media and others if he says honestly: It's too damned hot for comfort'. 
But what, you may ask,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  has this to do with democracy? It has much to do with it. Democracy can flourish only in an atmosphere of trust, out of an inclination to recognise the truth, and with an intent to protect those who expose the truth however hard the establishments and the vested interests are knocked. He who would speak out deserves our praise, not our condemnation, provided only that he speaks with conviction and with reasonable knowledge. Therefore one can accept, if not agree with, an assessment that the war in Vietnam is unjustified; but if the same assessor equates the role of the United States of America to that of Nazi Germany one's credulity is overtaxed, one's intelligence is affronted and the proponent of the line is suspect in point of knowledge or of judgment or even of motivation. 
There is. of course, a tendency to exaggerate in a political system such as ours which depends on persuasion rather than coercion. Our democratic viewpoints are inclined to be expressed in blacks and whites. Hence we encounter from time to time the manifestly absurd proposition that one or other of the major parties in Australian politics is incapable of initiating anything worthwhile. Such extremism nevertheless can be forced on political spokesmen by the danger which lies in failing to dramatise party policies. Thus the concentration of the Liberal Party's realistic opposition to Communism in a pamphlet of the 1966 Federal election campaign was so dramatically effective as to provoke numerous accusations of oversimplification. But in my experience the protests came - apart from those who bluntly resented the success of the message - from people who were prepared to read a 10 or 20-page document on the rights and wrongs of 
Vietnam and assumed, through their political ignorance, that most of the electorate was prepared to do likewise. 
Herein lies another major problem of latter day democracy: How, with universal franchise, to disseminate information at adequate levels of detail? If the information released by governments is too scanty or over-generalised, the more learned critics complain that the public is being kept in the dark or treated with contempt. In matters of national interest such as defence it is well nigh impossible to avoid the charge; on questions of a domestic nature we come closer to the waitress in the San Francisco restaurant - more, even all, can be revealed. It is hard to see that the problem ever will be thoroughly solved. What is involved, therefore, is an element of trust and understanding between a government and its critics; but excepting the truly neutral critics, of whom there are few, those involved are constantly beset by the need to make political capital out of an issue, to show their proposals in the best light and their opponents' in the worst. 
The political role of the public media is not exempt from criticism. It is a source of wonder that opposing political forces so often can make equal accusations of bias about the same political commentaries. We cannot resolve that here. But one facet of the subject is overdue for comment. This is the charge that our newspapers overwhelmingly favour the status quo. May I suggest a close analysis of the editorial and reported materials. It is quite common to find editorial support for the right of the political spectrum while the front page story favours the left. Since the front page scanners probably outnumber the editorial observers by 100 to 1, the oft-repeated charge of conservative Press influence bears examination. I say that knowing of one case where an independent candidate for election received sustained support to the tune of 120 column inches under 10 captions of 36 point type or larger, while the major party candidates were almost ignored. 
I realise,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that these matters may be no revelation to you. But I do wish that some of the critics of political processes would give sufficient thought to the system to comprehend that political argument can rarely be the same as academic argument. That is not to say that any political argument should be based on other than fact or at least impartial analysis. If I may put the point more succinctly, whether or not politics is the science of exigencies or the art of the possible, democracy is surely the art of compromise. 
Nevertheless, even if the more professional critics of the democratic society are prepared to accept this assessment, there remains the problem of those who protest at being excessively remote from the seats of power and lacking in any influence upon the decision makers. If I did not in some measure sympathise with their frustration, I would not be here now. Yet I believe that al'l too often the form of their militancy is unjustified. By this I do not mean that their complaints are necessarily unfounded or that entrenched conservatism should not be prepared to change. What I do mean is that, in the main, they should stop complaining and start participating, for, as I see it, participation is the keystone of a healthy democracy. In this society, there are few barriers to active involvement in political organisations; nor should it be pretended that these are the only vehicles of influence. Many other social groups bring pressure to bear upon the elected decision makers, often a good deal more blatantly and with more narrowly vested interests than the political parties themselves. 
However, despite the opportunities for involvement, many are not involved, physically or mentally, with the democratic process. Reasons are numerous: deference, embarrassment, apathy among our more passive citizens; among the would be activists impatience couples with adherence to the principle of least effort in finding that the machinery of democracy grinds slowly to produce a coarser flour than suits the purist's palate. In my view, the educated and the vocal who opt out deserve little of our sympathy in their inability to influence events. Those who genuinely feel unequal to the task provide a more intractable problem. Liberty offers few advantages to the weak if its results merely expose them to the power of the strong.' In fact, they need not be exposed, but merely to think they are, to constitute a significant imperfection in the fabric of democracy. It can be very frightening to feel totally powerless. 
This leads me,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to the nub of my discussion. Among the many definitions and interpretations of democracy, I find its qualities best expressed in the phrase 'equality of opportunity'. Not everyone will share the preference. But there is a world of difference between this definition and perhaps its most frequent misuse, as a synonym for equality. Even in this egalitarian society of ours, we are not all equal. Nor can we be made so, short of Aldous Huxley's 'Brave New World'. Frustrating as it may be to some, 12 million prime ministers are not a practical proposition. That the possibility exists for any one of the 12 million to become prime minister is the crucial issue. It does exist but it is an unequally distributed possibility. 
The most effective means of providing a rough approximation of equal opportunity is education. Access to an effective education system therefore is vital to a democratic society. But it is not necessary to put everyone through the same mould, to reject, for example, the concept of independent schools, to prove that opportunity exists. Much has been made lately of the economic disparity which can be found among individuals in modern democracies, with the explicit or implicit corollary that the system stands condemned. The much greater and wider spread discrepancies of earlier and current autocratic and feudal societies also might be used to point up the progress which our admittedly imperfect system represents. 
Another bone of contention, which is related to economic inequality, is that the sons and daughters of the less skilled workers in the community are less likely to receive a university education than the offspring of professional workers. How the recent discoverers of this long known condition propose to remedy the situation is something I await with avid interest. The negative contribution of poor environment of course can bc turned to positive account by exposure to the attractions of learning. But do those, like  Mr Wertheimer  in the journal 'Dissent', who advocate demonstrative action to redress inequalities, also have a remedy for inherent differences in individual intelligence? Do they propose less education for the mentally well endowed so that we can attain parity of educational achievement between the sons of bricklayers and the daughters of teachers? Or do they have more drastic solutions? lt has been cogently argued that already 20th century educational philosophy has moved away from intellectual training and towards social adjustment. If we reach a stage where that proportion of the population which is capable of developing trained and critical minds should subordinate the sharpening of its intellectual skills to the doctrine of togetherness, then I concur with Professor Monro that it becomes 'at least arguable that de Tocqueville was right, and that we are paying a very heavy price indeed for democracy'. 
Surely,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the will to develop all the innate skills of our people is the hallmark of a liberal democracy. If in so doing a normal distribution of ability and hence of earning capacity and perhaps of influence becomes evident, the whole society must gain through the variety and complementary of its components. But what about the chap at the bottom end of the spectrum, say trie egalitarians? I submit that, despite its imperfections, this democracy is sufficiently liberal for him to move from that position if he has the innate capacity. If he has not, no amount of conceivable legislation will make him prime minister. By the same token, a liberal democracy must guard the self respect of its citizens and ensure that no one worth his salt goes to the wall. This is recognised, in those forms of assistance which the State renders the individual and which require constant review. 
The problem of protecting the weak and guarding against gross inequalities of opportunity may be more difficult to solve when the units are somewhat larger than individual people. Take, for instance, our electorates. Few, if any, are recognisable entities geographically, economically or socially; nor with boundary changes do they long maintain historical continuity. In fact, I represent, with the possible exception of the two Commonwealth Territories, the electorate which most nearly constitutes a functional entity: the business core, the inner suburbs and some outer suburbs of the Hobart metropolitan area. That to me is a source of pride and satisfaction. 
But, while it may assist my determining with some confidence the needs of the area and its people, it does not ensure that their representation shall be more or less effective than that of their counterparts elsewhere. That depends not only on my powers of persuasion and my relative standing in government or opposition but also on general policy emphases, as for example between rural and urban areas, and on the decisions of State legislators and others. So, whatever equality we have under representative constitutional government is of the Orwellian kind, where some are more equal than others. It is important therefore that those who are less equal today should have the chance to be more equal tomorrow. 1 do not think anyone could properly deny that the changes can be rung in our operative system, lt is not, of course, an easy system to operate. I wonder how many of those on the political sidelines understand the problem of conflicting loyalties - a problem not always solved by Disraeli's advice Damn, your principles; stick to your party'. Nor from the evidence is the fragmentation of parties or even their abolition a practical solution. 
 A more mundane requirement of effective democracy than allegiance to principle or to party is, 1 believe, the need for accuracy. Facts are much more telling than speculation even if they take less space on the page or less time on television. In particular we need to know what others are talking about. Our language and our nomenclature are increasingly less precise in their application. Legions of people, including many in universities, say 'this' when they mean 'that'. Others emulate Australian Broadcasting Commission interviewers and stress unimportant prepositions instead of nouns and verbs. Any speech made yesterday is described as historic. Democracy can be defined as something unobtainable without Hare-Clark. Does anybody really give thought to the southern hemisphere as a unit except when we think that something we have built may, if we do not look too closely at Brazil or Argentina, bc the biggest in it? Despite a most cogent newspaper article in 1967 by Professor Spate. Australia is still all too commonly placed 'in Asia'.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if Australia is in Asia, then the United States is most certainly in Russia and you and 1 are in the Senate - or is it the other place? 
If we are to control and guide the future of our society in a world of rapid change the need for information and the emphasis on its accuracy will increase. In a society where rapid advances in technology are not automatically advances in human values or the quality of life, education in ideas will become more important. If there is a crisis today in industrial democracy it stems, as  Sir Isaiah  Berlin suggested in a rare interview, from:   . . (he difficulty of combining ... the political participation of the majority of a given society in the processes which control our lives, "with the inescapable need for highly trained experts and .specialists for the purpose of controlling the very elaborate machinery which human ingenuity . . . has created. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, my time is running short and so, like Lady Godiva, I draw toward my close. I look forward to contributing to the discussion of specific legislative proposals as they come before this House. All will depend for their effective implementation on the maintenance of representative institutions in what I believe is still one of the leading examples of a liberal democratic society. 
I address my question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. It has been alleged in Tasmania that the Australian National Line's ship 'Empress of Australia' may be converted from a passenger-cargo carrier to an exclusively cargo vessel. Can the Minister state whether the Government has a possible solution to the industrial difficulties which could cause the complete loss of this vital link in Tasmania's tourist trade? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. In view of the long standing community awareness of the misery which has resulted and continues to result from the use of inflammable fabrics in children's night attire, can the Minister indicate any immediate prospect of the Commonwealth or State governments introducing controlling legislation after the style of the Children's Nightdresses Regulations 1964 of the United Kingdom? 
Can the Minister for Labour and National Service indicate the current state of the Waterside Workers Federation proposal for a waterfront strike next weekend? Is he aware that the Tasmanian fruit export season is getting into full stride and that any such action is a direct and irresponsible blow at the economy of the island State? Is he aware of any action by the Australian Labor Party to influence the cancellation of the strike? 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. In view of the Australian Council of Trade Unions' recent decision to accept the invitation of the Soviet trade union organisation for the ACTU President to visit the Soviet Union, and in view of the ACTU's favoring a reciprocal visit by the Russian union leader, can the Prime Minister say whether that person would be given a visa by this Government? The person concerned is Alexander Nikolaevich Shelepin, who for  2  years from December  1958  was chief of the Soviet Union secret police and who retired from the position to one of less obvious connection but no less influence with that infamous organisation. 
 A great deal of fire and brimstone has preceded me in this debate today but, unlike some of my predecessors in the debate, my main object in speaking is not to occupy 20 minutes of the broadcasting time - mainly because the proceedings are not being broadcast at this hour. I would like to draw attention to some of the whitewashing and smoke-screening which has occurred on the other side of the chamber. I think it would do justice to the defence policy of the Australian Labor Party. My colleague from the southern Tasmanian electorate of Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  expressed, with a proper sense of urgency, his desire to make a splash in this chamber. He has the same problem as do many new members here and if in fact the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  would give him a little time in debates perhaps he would do better than some so far on this side of the chamber. The point of this amendment has hardly been touched on for some 2 hours past. When we get down to tin tacks what we should be talking about is in fact who was responsible for a procedural impasse which I am led to believe is without precedent in this House. 
The honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Allan Fraser)  earlier in the day was very worried by the fact that we could not at one and the same time pass both the amendment and the motion. That should not be of great concern to him because among other things which he said was - and I would like to quote him as directly as possible: The Australian Labor Party last night had to be disorderly to preserve order.' That is a very difficult proposition for me to comprehend but perhaps there are people here who have been here longer than I who can understand it. 
Yes. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  long ago in this debate suggested that there was no logic in having an amendment which sought alternative guilty parties. I would like to suggest that there is no exclusive prerogative of the Australian Labor Party in naming guilty parties. It is perfectly clear, among other things, that the strong line taken by the Leader of this House  (Mr Snedden)  in his capacity as a Minister with the fairly militant area of trade unions met with some disapproval from the opposite side of the House. The fact that he might be doing so in response to a selfnominated tough guy in the person of  Mr Hawke  is left aside for the purposes of this debate. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  in an extremely humorous speech read at length from Hansard and said: 'I do so in detail,  Mr Speaker,  to put it on the record'. He read from the record to put it on the record, so we now have it twice. While all this was going on we have been missing the point of who is responsible for what. I would like to suggest merely this: If in fact the Opposition in this chamber is unable to control itself, or even worse, if it plans not to control itself however provoked by the exercise of procedures in this House, honourable members opposite should take another look at themselves. Any amount of smoke-screening and whitewashing as far as this debate is concerned will not obscure from those of the reading public who read Hansard or from the listening public the fact that there was irresponsible behaviour in response to whatever provocation, some slight amount of which has perhaps been admitted on this side of the House.  Sir, one  argument which has been left out in the number of reasons given for the application of the gag is the argument which could best be designated verbal diarrhoea. We have had to listen to a number of irrelevant  speeches in  this debate. Perhaps it behoves the Opposition in this chamber very well to consider the proposition that it may in fact not be able to monopolise the complete broadcasting, non broadcasting and other time which is available to members of this House. The honourable member for Riverina mentioned that there are 126 members; in fact there are 125. He should remember that if the other 124 members had as much question time and as much general speaking time and as much time at large as the honourable member for Riverina wants we would sit here about 700 days in a year. 
Finally,I would like to refute in the short time that I have available just one thing from my own personal standpoint. Perhaps I may be held to these words on some future occasion. On many occasions during this debate it was suggested that there are many backbenchers here - some new and some old - who are languishing, who in fact are doing more than languishing and are absolutely burnt up with frustration and what have you. I would like to suggest from one point of view alone that I cannot in fact concur with those remarks. I am prepared, like my colleague from the south, to wait a little time to see what in fact we might make of this chamber.I do not think we have to make this too sugary and I have yet to find that the right of free speech has been denied. 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the  question be  now put. 
1 direct my question to the Minister for External Affairs. This morning it was broadcast that the administration of Communist China had criticised the Soviet Union for, in this centenary year of Lenin's birth, straying from Leninism and preaching Socialism while practising imperialism. What significance does the Minister see in this latest condemnation of the one Communist giant by the other? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, there is a great deal more in this Bill than might meet the passing eye. I think that the speakers who have gone before me have already indicated that to be the case. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  for example spoke of the vast resources of the world's oceans - and, I think, very rightly so. He spoke of the protein resources that remain to be tapped. This is and has been a matter of some interest to the world's scientists for quite a long time. The honourable member did not bring his remarks back to the basic requirements although doubtless that was implicit; this is one of the greatest possible solutions to the current population problem of the world in terms of feeding it, not stopping its growth. In particular is this so when so much of the population of the world is protein dependent, relying particularly on the kind of protein that comes from the pelagic or similar resources - in other words, fish and matters of that kind. 
We can take the matter even further than that in terms of possibilities of the marine environment. Already some leading architects of the world have postulated and have been planning a proposition for floating cities in some of the calmer waters of the globe and, as you doubltless know,  Mr 

 Deputy Speaker, the waters of the world cover about 70% of our global surface. We have here an immense area as yet untapped in the sense that land surface currently is tapped, and in some cases overlapped. 1 do not wish to reiterate, any more than 1 can help, arguments, points and aspects of this matter which have been put before. But I wish to commend again the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  the Government at large and those individual honourable members on either side of the House who have been responsible for having this come forward by or at this time. I was quite taken by the mentioning of the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  of the degree and extent of research in the marine area which already goes on in Australia, despite the fact that for most of the last 20 years I have been either student or teacher in Australian universities. However, most of this work to the best of my knowledge goes on under the heads of particular disciplines such as zoology, geomorphology and so on. Very few of the concentrated efforts of marine research are conducted under a specific head or in a specific institution brought together under one specific heading in terms of marine scientific research. So I think that the proposition that we have this Australian institute of Marine Science is entirely admirable. 
I draw attention for a few minutes to something of the sort of development that has gone on in this field elsewhere. I think that it would be generally held that, in the field of marine science, the United States of America is well ahead of the world, ns well it might be because of its immense resources in financial terms and in scientific knowhow generally. Nevertheless, that does not necessarily follow. To illustrate my point I wish to use one or two quotations from the 1969 report of the United States Commission on Marine Science, Engineering and Resources. The Commission says, for instance: 
The Commission finds that the United States position of world leadership in marine science depends mainly on the work of a small number of major oceanographic institutions. These few, large, well-staffed, and relatively well-financed centres of oceanographic research have had profound influence on scientists and programmes at other institutions and have established criteria of excellence for the efforts of others. Such institutions as Scripps Institution of Oceanography, 
Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution and the Lamont Geological Observatory represent a major national investment around which the nation's marine science programme must be built. 
Now, in substantiation of this belief in this matter but at the same time indicating just how this has been given practical effect in the United States in recent times 1 with to take a very few figures indeed from the same report. In 1960-61 there were 77 graduates and 262 enrollees in the field of ocean science. There are other subcategories or related categories in this whole field of marine science such as basic science, technology, engineering, marine food science and so on which have comparable although rather fewer numbers. By 1967-58 the graduates in this field of ocean science numbered 474 and the enrollees 2,647. So in the short space of 6 or 7 years numbers had increased many fold. I think this indicates the respect with which this field of scientific endeavour is held in the United States. 
I would like to indicate from the same report just what are the propositions for expansion in this field in the United States. 1 will take just a few examples so as not unduly to take this report apart, because it is available in the Parliamentary Library for those who seek it. It states: 
The Commission recommends that federal marine science laboratories be strengthened by adequate funding and staffing. Selected, consolidation of marginal laboratories is one way of 'achieving this purpose; however it should be remembered that effectiveness is not necessarily a function of size. 
I would underline that point verbally be cause that may well go for some of the universities in this country and for other institutions concerned with education of one sort or another. A further recommendation states: 
The Commission recommends that the United States establish as a goal the achievement of :he capability to explore the ocean depths to 20,000 feet within a decade and to utilise ocean depths to 20,000 feet by the year 2000. 
That is a very big aim, and it indicates the sort of thing we might have in mind, if not that actual aim, when we found an institution such as the one under discussion. 1 mention only one other recommendation. The report states: 
The Commission recommends that the United Science Foundation expand its support for undergraduate and graduate education in the basic marine-related scientific disciplines and plan post  doctoral and mid-career marine orientation programmes in consultation with the academic and industrial marine communities. 
That, in a very small nutshell, is the sort of position we find in this developing field in the United States. I have already referred by name to 2 or 3 of the institutions in the United States. Although this report suggests that size is not necessarily a prerequisite to excellence, nevertheless some of the leading ones there are of substantial size and of a size which we could not hope to achieve in quite a long time. 
However may I very briefly outline the resources available in 1 or 2 of the leading institutions which we may care to take as models for the ultimate development of the institution which is proposed here. For instance, the essential aspects of the structure of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography at La Jolla, California, are as follows: It is an integral unit of the University of California at San Diego, supported by a parent institution, the United States Government, industry, special funds and income from endowments. Its staff consists of 110 research and supporting professionals, 385 technicians and 189 others. They then elaborate some 20 or more principal fields of research, which include, amongst others, marine environment, submarine geology, studies on the interaction of biological and geological problems, submarine organisms and so oh through the biological and physical fields of marine research. The institute maintains an offshore area for installation of special underwater scientific equipment. It has a 355-foot ocean-going craft of unique design and so on. 
If we turn to the Woods Hole oceanographic institution in Massachusetts we find the same sorts of things. It is an independent, non-profit research organisation with its own board of control, supported by the United States Government, foundations and private gifts. It is staffed by 52 research professionals, 79 supporting professionals, 122 technicians and 184 others. The volume of research, measured this time in dollars - although that is only one measure of research - in 1961 was $4m; in 1963 it was $6,500,000, and so it goes up the scale. Again the principal fields of research are similar to, although not identical with, those of the other institute that I mentioned. These are perhaps the kinds of organisations and structures which may be borne in mind as ultimate possibilities for our marine institute that is now proposed. 
However it is quite clear that they depend on vast resources and that they support very large numbers of staff, not by some other standards, but for an intensive research institute. This sort of thing is well ahead of us and by no means near. What we are saying in effect is that the usual sort of American setup for major institutes of marine science is that they are, firstly, attached to universities and that, secondly, they have private endowments which are of a substantial kind and the equivalent of which is not likely to be found here in the foreseeable future. They have professors who are basically paid by the universities, for example, the University of California in the case of Scripps, and so on. 
I have not yet touched on the question of the varying types of students of marine environment who may be involved in these institutions. As I recall, most of the comments of the honourable members for Dawson, Cook and Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  have touched on the research area. Certainly that would seem to be the appropriate thing to talk about in relation to such an institute. lt need not however necessarily confine itself to post-graduate, doctoral or similar research. In due course, particularly in view of the terms of reference of the Bill, which are quite wide - and I think agreeably so - it may be possible to consider an institute such as this having undergraduates attached to it or serving in it as well as dealing exclusively with the post-graduate field. But for the moment we have many problems awaiting us. We have a vast and interesting coastline to be looked at and the sort of things which have already been outlined awaiting the research of people who might be attached to such an institute. 
I would like to suggest a possible alternative for the time being - there may be others - to the sort of thing which we find in the institutes in the United States to which I have just drawn attention. I do so not entirely out of my own knowledge but as a result of discussion with some former colleagues who have a greater knowledge than I in this field. I would suggest that the first and foremost essential - I hope the Minister for Education and Science, who is sitting at the table, will hear me on this - is to have a good director for such an institute. If we have almost nothing else we need to have a good director of outstanding qualifications so that scientists around the world, thinking in terms of coming to the Institute for a short or long time, will know what they are about.  His  name will do a great deal for the institution. It may not be easy to find such a man, but it should not be impossible. 
After that we obviously need some plant, technicians and equipment. It is clear from the figures I have quoted for Woods Hole and Scripps that the technicians will by far outnumber the researchers. This will be the case for most institutions of this kind. So we have to contemplate a fairly fundamental amount of support equipment and staff before we can do as much research here as anywhere else. But with a relatively modest background or underpinning such as this, I suggest that we can contemplate this Institute in its first stages of development as being one with a good director and operating on the basis of offering postdoctoral fellowships. In other words, it would not necessarily have to pay considerable salaries to leading scientists in small or large numbers. It could offer substantial salaries but nevertheless less in terms of total cost than the kind of salaries I have mentioned. It could offer post-doctoral fellowships to people around the world to work with the local equipment, with the assistance of local institute technicians. If that sort of proposition is put into effect I suggest there will be no difficulty whatsoever in attracting first rate people. With a reasonable amount of flexibility of operation, which again would be desirable, this will very quickly assume the proportions of an institute approaching world standing. This has been the hope expressed by other honourable members who have spoken on this Bill. 
Referring to large or small institutions, I have already heard privately and not from any official source, suggestions of empire building. Some honourable members have expressed certain reservations on the aspects of empire building in such an institution as this. It would perhaps be wrong of me to suggest that those fears are absolutely groundless. It is human nature, as far as I have observed it, to empire build, and, again as far as I have observed it, the academic stream of mankind is not exactly exempt from that inclination. Nevertheless, I would say to those sceptics who are inclined to believe people who ply a few glass bottomed boats from here to there on the Barrier Reef rather than some piece of unbiased, properly and statistically supervised scientific research about the problems of the crown of thorns starfish or any such related scientific problem, that they need have very few fears of this kind. Their fears certainly need be no more than normally would be held of any other educational institution. In fact, nowhere can you find a more disinterested - I say this in a particularly personal sense - breed of people than the scientists who have only their salaries to gain and no commercial interest of the kind that normally attaches to empire building in other spheres. So I would regard that as no sort of fear sufficient in any way to inhibit the fairly rapid development of this Institute. 
I have very little more to say. I indicated earlier a number of important matters that have already been touched upon by honourable members who have spoken previously. But I would like to underline the requirement of such an institution to have the capacity, and certainly to have a charter, that would enable it to investigate all manner of important problems within its financial limitations - not only biological problems which tend to be rather accented in the popular Press but also the physical ones. In this I include the oceanographic aspects such as the development of the coastline. Incidentally, the honourable member for Cook made some reference to the failure of people to solve the problem of disappearing beaches and the like. I could in fact suggest to him that only recently a very near colleague of mine had to go to quite some lengths to solve a lot of the problems of the kind he fears. These are usually beyond the capacity of the local councils to solve. 
So we have an almost limitless field of scientific endeavour which can attach to an institute such as this in a country such as this. The honourable member for Dawson and perhaps one or two of the other honourable members expressed the fervent hope that the people who came to work in this Institute, from wherever they came, would stay and work in the area and to some extent would be rooted in its problems. That is a very nice hope and aim, but 1 would hope also that it does not develop into an excessive strain of parochialism. The honourable member for Fremantle suggested that this should be an institute which looked for scientific knowledge and did not follow the trends of nationalism. May 1 adapt what he had to say and suggest that what this Institute should set out to do is endeavour to find national scientific knowledge and not parochialism. While 1 readily agree that the tropical environment could be very well investigated - it would probably be hard to find a better site to do this than Townsville - I think we should by no means consider the Barrier Reef, the Queensland coast and that general area as the only source of operations for people who will be attached to this Australian Institute of Marine Science. 
As has already been suggested, in terms of the wealth of some of the American institutes, there is one other field which the Institute could develop in this area. For example, both the Scripps and Woods Hole oceanographic institutions take about 2,000 journals in their libraries. That may be some small indication of the degree, the complexity and the diversity of scientific endeavour in this field, a field which has barely been brought to the notice of the general public at this stage. Even when it is given attention it is usually in fairly specific fields such as exploration for oil or pollution by the sinking or the holing of an oil tanker. There are vast and untapped fields here which are coming very much into the public purview but which have long since been under the notice of scientists. Of course, the basic difficulties in coming to grips with a submarine environment, or even a surface marine environment, compared with the ability to move about on land, has inhibited development in this field relative to development on land up to the present time. 
So while trying to avoid a parochialism which I suggested should be avoided but nevertheless indulging a healthy local interest in these matters, I suggest that as this field of research develops we may well increasingly consider that, figuratively speaking, the oyster for such development is the Australian coastline, and as time goes on the claims of sites other than Queensland - 1 would certainly include Tasmania with its unique coastline - will be considered for investigation. For the time being one must agree that the choice has been well made and, with the new, emerging and autonomous 'James Cook' University at Townsville, it is fairly obvious that there are associations and other facilities capable of being used in the development of this Australian Institute of Marine Science. Finally, 1 commend the Minister and I commend all those honourable members who have before my time here sponsored this move. I hope that the matters which 1 have drawn to the attention of those listening might be noted, together with the other myriad facets of this matter to which attention has been drawn by other honourable members. As I said at the outset, there is a great deal more in this proposition than meets the eye when we look at 2 or 3 pages of a Bill to establish a marine science institute for Australia. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Cross)  adjourned. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Is the Prime Minister aware of a continuing tendency to debase the English language by the use of high sounding words in substitution for simple ones; for example, lubritorium meaning garage workshop and fruitorium meaning fruit shop? Is the Prime Minister further aware that the word 'moratorium' means a legal authorisation to a debtor to postpone payment for a certain time' and that its use in conjunction with the word 'Vietnam' to mean 'stop the war' is an uncritical importation of an American usage by those who are most critical of following American precedents, and, far from being a learned phrase of apparent respectability, is an evasion of plain words like 'anti-war' and, indeed, is a nonsense? 
Before I say, fairly briefly, what I really want to say in this debate I should like to assure the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  who I think interjected earlier, (hat unfortunate as it may be this side of the House is devoid of members of the medical profession. Those who have the appellation doctor' in front of their names have it in areas other than that of the medical profession, most of whom are bachelors of that particular profession. Much has been said in this debate, and at the tail end of such a discussion it is unlikely that any absolutely new contributions can be made. 
So I want to put I or 2 personal points of view and, as far 'as I can, to summarise and perhaps to some small extent simplify some of the lines that have been running through the debate during the last several hours, including yesterday. 
First and foremost I think it should be stated that the concept of this Bill is protection of ali members of the public against embarrassing medical costs, that is, to make possible for all members of the community access to proper medical care in whatever areas of illness they unfortunately find themselves. There are a few obvious elements in this particular situation. First, of course, is the Government, which is initiating the procedure; then there is the Opposition; then the medicos and then the health funds. 1 have listened with some interest, not entirely throughout the debate but almost so, to what members of the Australian Labor Party have had to say on this matter. I have listened particularly to the contributions of most of its 5 or 6 medicos. I hope that I do not misinterpret what they had to say. 1 have looked in vain for what I would regard as a serious contribution to the solving of any problems which may exist as between the proponents of this scheme, who in one way or another are most if not all the people on this side of the House, and the medical profession in one or other of its various forms. 
We have heard a number of useful humanitarian contributions from the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  and others, on which I commend them. But the question at issue is the Bill before the House. I think we can agree that there are some basic differences in philosophy. Most importantly, this Government does not adhere to a philosophy of socialised medicine or something approaching that whereas other people quite properly hold, even though they like to call it by other names, that no matter what is the cost everybody shall have exactly equal access, despite the reality or otherwise of need, to medical services. Nobody could dispute that in an ideal community it would be marvellous for people willy-nilly to indulge all their inclinations in this regard. I have even, I think, gone on record as indicating a general interest in the fact that no member of the community should be unduly discriminated against. At the same time I would say that most of what I have listened to from the other side of the House, as on other occasions, has been argument advanced by a counsel of perfection looking for an ideal society. That, perhaps, is not a bad thing in itself, but the means by which we get there is of some interest. 
It seems to me that, if the philosophy is that we should implement this concept , in every field right across the board, we legislate for equality - if that is what we want to call it. If in doing so we deny any individual access to incentive, even if the incentive is an incentive to look after himself, then we get towards a situation, as the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  put forward very clearly last evening, that approximates the situation under the nationalised medical scheme in Great Britain. It is pretty hard going for any individual to say that he can summarise the rights and wrongs of the nationalised medical scheme in Britain. We have I sort of testimony in the large number of British doctors who are resident in Australia and who are practising alongside our native born medicos because, in many cases, they could no longer stomach the socialised medical scheme of Britain. I do not think that can be denied by anyone in or out of the profession. That does not necessarily make them right, but  it  makes fairly imposing evidence for that point pf view. Within the last dozen years I lived for about  2i  years in Britain and certainly my personal observations would lead me to lend my support to much the same assessment as that of the medicos who have emigrated to Australia. Whether or not it is a ghastly scheme, to use the words of the honourable member for North Sydney, I am not quite sure; but certainly it is a highly involved scheme which involves a great deal of waste and which I would not like to advocate here. 
During this discussion much has been said about why the Government scheme, useful as it might be  - it  was conceded that  it  does not go far enough - does not embrace the philosophy of members of the Australian Labor Party in respect of things medical. A lot has been said about taxation, about the little man on a low wage and so on. Quite frankly I just could not understand the relevance of some, though not all, of it. There has been a great plea for equality of treatment - again, I think the honourable member for North Sydney drew attention last night to what the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  had to say about this - on the ground that anybody who is on a lower wage than somebody else will not do as well under this scheme, or I might add any similar scheme, as the chap who is earning a lot and therefore gets more back because of his higher rate of taxation. I regard this as being absolutely irrelevant in the sense that it is not a criticism of the Bill before the House. 
Surely if a person is in a position to pay little in taxation he cannot expect to get back a lot in reimbursements, whether it is in respect of a medical scheme or anything else. This would be putting the cart before the horse. The important thing is what the person pays, not what he might or might not get back depending on his total level of income. The honourable member for Scullin is shaking his head. If we carry that particular argument to its logical conclusion, I suggest we might argue that honourable members who are entirely dependent on their salaries as members of the Parliament might pay one-half or onequarter of the air fares or bus fares that those members pay who are still in receipt of private income, perhaps quite substantial private income. We might argue that there should be graded bus fares according to the level of income. That is the logic of this sort of proposition if we carry it past the point at which it is convenient for members of the Opposition to leave it at this stage. In that sense the argument is nonsensical, because the operative factor is that the initial payments are within the ambit of anybody, whatever is his income. It is clear enough in black and white in the Bill that persons on low incomes will not be placed in the position of having to pay basically for similar services that other people get. 
Attention has been drawn to the fact that the Bill embraces the prospect of an increase in contributions from 60c to 75c. This has been spelt out as though we are talking about dollars, or perhaps even hundreds of dollars. I know that there are people on low incomes, some of them in my electorate, and I am related to some not in my electorate. We are talking about a tiny figure - the price of a beer or of  i  packet of cigarettes a week. To dress this up as a blatant infringement of the rights of the lower income members of the populace is to draw a red herring across the trail and certainly is not a significant criticism of the Bill. 
The honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  drew attention, among other things, to the operations of the Blue Cross organisation in America. If I remember his words aright, he was favourably disposed to the sort of situation which could obtain here under such a scheme. For a short period when I was travelling in the United States I transferred to the Blue Cross organisation, which is vaguely allied to our organisation. The transfer was at enormous expense, but it was necessary because of the colossal cost of medicine in the United States. I wonder whether this again is a sensible criticism of the legislation we have before us. That is, of course, not to draw attention to the same member's inclination to discuss the pitfalls of smoking and the cancer that may be derived therefrom, which was hardly relevant to the matter before the House. 
Obviously some features of this Bill are lacking in terms of a counsel of perfection or probably not even that sort of counsel. A number of paramedical matters will not be covered by the Bill as they have not been covered before. Various members of our electorates are making submissions on matters such as geriatrics, hearing, the necessity for therapy and aids, and so on. It can reasonably be said that these are things which need to be looked at. As I understand it, these matters have been looked at and I would imagine that they will continue to be looked at. 
An integral part of the scheme proposed in the Bill - I am sure the House is already aware of this so I will not go into it at any length - is the referral system as between general practitioners and specialists. Unlike some of my colleagues who are decidedly sanguine about this matter, I am slightly less so. I would prefer to wait until the details become apparent when this scheme is put into operation. One can assume that it could operate successfully. However, we have to see that it does operate successfully. 1 for one would suggest to the Minister for Health that, as he well knows, he will need to keep it constantly within his purview. It could well be that the scheme will not operate as we want it to if we do not work with the goodwill of the medical profession. It can only be said that it will operate properly with the goodwill of the medical profession. 
Members of the medical profession are tradesmen of a high order who are not unaware of the need for goodwill. It is true that some infinite details are not spelt out in the Bill, despite its length, and I think it is a reasonable proposition that the medical fraternity would understand that, as I have heard the Minister explain on more than one occasion, the Government is introducing this Bill with absolute goodwill and is prepared to remedy any minor or marginal problems which may arise, as they tend to do under the operation of a new scheme of this magnitude. 
I would like to make some small mention of the medical profession, perhaps at some slight risk. The medical profession has long been held by some people to be as effective a trade union as has ever existed in this country. Until the last few weeks I was of that opinion. It now appears however that the medical profession, which is comprised very substantially of men of goodwill and men of hard labour, has not been as cohesive a trade union as in fact we suspected it was. The general practitioners are somewhat at variance with the specialists and may probably continue to be so in one shape or form. A question of status is involved. Nobody stands in higher regard in the community than do members of the medical profession. It may be somewhat salutary to mention that in very few, if any, other countries of the world does the medical profession enjoy such prestige and even mystique as it does in Australia. I think that most members of the profession are aware of this. Certainly I have acquaintances in the profession who would readily admit that. 
I would suggest that the status of the medical profession results not so much from what it achieves but basically from an often very uncritical acceptance by the Australian public of the standing of the medical profession not only in its own sphere but in relation to all sorts of allied matters in which its members are frequently quite inexpert. At the same time - I would like to make my position clear - I do not for a moment suggest that the role played by medical men in the country is not one which is almost without peer and which is above the level of importance of any other calling. Th: public tends very much to believe that the medical profession stands almost on a pinnacle of its own because it deals most personally, if not personably with the public day by day. 
So it is absolutely important that the medical profession should understand that the introduction of certain problems within its own ranks, particularly those that exist between the 2 wings of the profession, the general practitioners and the specialists, are not problems which it is fair to lay at the door of the Government, the Opposition or anybody who may be the proponents of this Bill and who wish to sec it passed in its entirety. The Bill has been before the House for some little time now. It is up to the profession to iron out such problems as those which either it was not previously aware of or which were not sufficiently crystallised for the profession to begin to look at. I refer to such things as lists of common fees and the differentials as between . general practitioners and specialists. So I would make a strong plea to those of the medical profession who feel inclined to blame their problems on the scheme. These are the sorts of problems on which I commented earlier and on which I received very little enlightenment from our medical friends on the other side of the House. I would like to see them accept the Government's proposition with the utmost goodwill and not try to resolve their internal problems within the confines of this Bill and the discussions relating to it. 
Although the matter has been referred to on a number of occasions before, in fact in glowing terms on several occasions, I would like to commend the Minister for his engineering of this operation. The trials and tribulations attending upon it have not been insignificant. Preparing the Bill for presentation lo the House has been a rather protracted preliminary exercise. One would hope that because of the widespread, in fact universal, operation of this scheme as far as the public of Australia is concerned any problems will be resolved in the greatest possible amity and understanding for the general benefit not only of the community but of the medical profession and anybody who is touched by it. 
Last but not least, I would like to say that the position of the general practitioner is one which, despite the small criticism I made a few moments ago, I regard as absolutely crucial to the continuing operation of medical services in this country. I am a little apprehensive that some members on both sides of the House, and certainly on this side, think that the trends elsewhere in the world towards a diminution in the number of general practitioners are perhaps not significant enough because they have not been given expression here. But 1 suggest that with the lack of other evidence we must take note of trends of this kind particularly where they are related to similar societies in the western world. 
We should take all possible steps within the confines of this Bill, or elsewhere for that matter, to see that the foundation of the medical profession's operation is sound. I refer to the general practitioner, the family doctor, who is often the recipient of many confidences. Apart from his expertise he has to deal with a great deal of the assumed medical problems. I. think many members of the profession will readily admit this. 1 do not say this is any derogatory sense in relation to their more expert operations. But a large proportion of the cases which come to genera] practitioners have some sort of psychosomatic content. They deal with things which the community does not wish to pay a specialist to attend to until they have been apprehended in the first instance by the general practitioner. So anything in this Bill or elsewhere which would work towards weakening the general position - I do not mean status as such - and operation of general practitioners would in my view be a bad thing. 
That is not to say that we should not look critically at the general status of the members of the medical profession. They should be earning their status along with everybody else. But it is important that we do nothing to undermine that position. In that regard the complexities of the relationship between the general practitioner and the specialist, and those who seem to fall in between somehow, were discussed earlier in this debate and I do not wish to traverse that subject any further. I commend the Government on this Bill and I hope that we manage to put it through with as much expedition as possible. I am sure that the general benefit to the community will become obvious when the scheme begins to operate. 
1 address a question to the Minister for External Affairs. Given the longstanding position of international neutrality adopted by Prince Sihanouk of Cambodia and his apparent popularity when bead of State, how does the Minister assess Sihanouk's present overt collaboration with Peking? Is Sihanouk any longer representative of any significant power element in the Cambodian Administration? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. It has. been stated on a recent Tasmanian television programme that the research grant of $31,000 made to Carlton and United Breweries Ltd of Victoria and which was the subject of a question on notice at page 2023 in Hansard, was for the purpose of research into hop extracts, fs the Minister able to give any assurance that the fears of Tasmanian hop growers for the future of their product in consequence of such research are unfounded? 
1 address my question to the Treasurer, ls he aware of recent comments, particularly those of the honourable member for Reid, on the rising price of urban land? Does his understanding of economics permit him any surprise at this phenomenon, involving as it docs a finite quantity of land and a potentially infinite demand for it? If the Minister agrees with me that the only effective way to prevent rising land prices for urban development in a free enterprise system is for the Government to buy all the land, can he give a firm indication that no such Socialistic intrusion into our free economy is intended? 
In the absence of the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  who I thought would precede me in this debate, I should like to add a few words to what the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  has said. Clearly this is a matter on which we could speak at great length if we were to take into account the general philosophy of university education, what we do for the students during their time at university and how they are accommodated. Perhaps it is inappropriate to speak at length on such a matter, although I do not in any sense decry what the honourable member for Fremantle has just said. If we were to introduce a discussion on the whole concept of the possibility of introducing what I might well call the Oxford-Cambridge system of university college structure, associated tutorial accommodation and so forth, we might spend a long time on this debate. 
However, I look forward, together with the honourable member for Fremantle, to talking about these matters at some other time. 
I should like to commend, if that is necessary, the Government for taking on this follow-up proposition in relation to these  2  halls of residence. Despite the fact that there are elements in the community who consider that universities get perhaps more than their just due and that the ultimate provision of full time accommodation for university students is something which perhaps we could do better without, I commend the present trend. It is interesting to mention some relevant figures in relation to trends in Australia and elsewhere. If we look at recent figures for Australia we find that in  1969,  which is as recently as we can hope to find figures,  15%  of the full time students in all Australian State universities were accommodated in halls of residence. Only the Australian National University figure was somewhat different. About  53%  of its full time students were in residence. These figures compare roughly with those of the United Kingdom. The latest figures that I have available are up to the end of  1966.  They indicate that in the United Kingdom as a whole - that is, England, Wales. Scotland and Northern Ireland -  33%  of full time male students were in residence in colleges of residence in the universities and about  39%  of females, although the females were fewer in number. In addition  48%  of the male students ; and about  44%  of the female students were in lodgings or flats so-called. The remainder, roughly  19%  of the men and  13%  of he women, were living at home. As honourable members may have noticed, there are  3  categories - those living at home, those in provided halls of residence and those somewhere in between, that is, in lodgings or flats. Herein lies the problem with which the Bill is concerned, and this is the only way by which the problem can be dealt with. When people have to leave home to go to universities, which still, despite the postwar expansion, are relatively few in number, and have to remain away from their homes to be attendant in these places, they have  2  choices - first, to get themselves into a university hall of residence or, secondly, to find some other berth. 
The problem has increased quite rapidly in recent years when the number of university students away from home has increased and the number of university students generally has well outstripped the provision of college accommodation. If I can relate this situation to my own State, the position in Hobart has become quite intense, quite highly pressured, in the last few years only. The University of Tasmania is a small university with roughly 2,500 students but with a pressure on accommodation which shows itself very early during the lung vacation. Well before the university starts its year all the available accommodation of any suitable character in flats and lodgings is taken up. On that case alone - certainly we could duplicate it in most other centres of university learning - there is ample argument for having further accommodation for full time university students. Of course, this is quite an expensive operation. In this Bill we have 2 widely diverse sums. A sum of $47,241 is mentioned in the case of the women's hall of residence proposed for Tasmania, and a figure considerably in excess of that for the hall of residence at Monash University. The Tasmanian figure is, in fact, the change out of $50,000 after the expenditure of a few thousand dollars on very preliminary planning. Already a sum of $566,000 is earmarked to be shared by the Commonwealth and the States for the first stage of real building of this women's hall of residence. 
The University of Tasmania has only a few colleges, as I indicated by talking about the pressure on private accommodation. The men's hall of residence, Hytten Hall, has expanded very considerably in recent years under the very able wardenship of a longstanding colleague of mine. The other colleges for males - the Catholic college and the Church of England college - have been doing a sterling job in accommodating students and they are expanding rapidly. The only women's hall of residence is one which is not of the university but has long been associated with it. lt is named Jane Franklin Hall after the wife of a former governor,  Sir John  Franklin. Until the recent advent of a rather small Catholic women's college, again off campus, this was the only accommodation available for female students. So the proposition that there should be a women's hall of residence - the direct female counterpart of Hytten Hall - is to be commended, lt is very much in demand and will be amply and properly used when the time comes. 
Regarding the total Australian situation - and I want to refer only briefly to this - there is quite a wide range in the percentage of students accommodated in residences at the universities. For example, in the University of Sydney only about 10% of the full time students are in residence. I should think, from memory, that that is the sort of figure which has obtained for quite some time, although there may be a variation of a few points. At the other extreme is the University of New England in its rural locale and not in a big city, unlike most, if not all the other universities, with about 86% of its students in residence. As 1 observed them some years ago the halls of residence were well appointed and, for the most part, well a archlectured. However, excluding the Australian National University, the total Australian figure is about 15% but the range is quite wide. The University of Tasmania is somewhere near the median figure, with about 244% of its full time students in residence. Monash University, which is also dealt with in this Bill, is at the bottom of the list with about 9% only of its students in full time residence. Quite clearly in each of the universities mentioned in the Bill - whether or not we compare them with other Australian universities or with overseas universities, and we could take it further if time were available - there is plenty of case to be made for the validation of the Bill to enable the building to proceed as has long since been planned. 1 do not wish to take up much more time of the House now. I commend the honourable member for Fremantle for his remarks. 1 should not like to extend them, to take issue with them, or to agree with them in greater detail at this stage. In summary I should like to say that this measure is entirely worthwhile and that I hope we will be able to continue the process by which some significant proportion of university students are accommodated in quarters which are conducive to learning through the involvement of their tutorial systems, the esprit de corps which they develop and that sort of thing, and that a decreasing number of Australian university students will have to be in the position, as some people are in some other institutions, of having to dig around on the off chance of finding lodgings, often quite unsuitable for study although, at the same time, something that people try to provide as best they are able. 
I think it may be fairly stated that this Bill is to provide massive aid for education. From what honourable members opposite have said hitherto, I do not think they would radically disagree with the word 'massive'. Certainly under the terms of this grant of S30m the position in respect of teachers' colleges and their bricks and mortar will be vastly improved. At the same time as that is known,  I  would like to make it clear, as I think has already been suggested elsewhere, that this measure should be seen as part of an education programme of much wider connotation than mere bricks and mortar. It is not the most important part of the programme, although we recognise that without the bricks and mortar it would be a little difficult to do anything. At the same time it is well known that a good teacher can operate effectively in a tin shed if necessary. But a palace is not much use without a good teacher or lecturer as the case may be. 
It is fairly clear that the States are as receptive to aid for education as they are to aid for any other purpose. Quite clearly they will not in any way be disinclined to receive this aid. They are, of course, much less inclined to accept any control which goes with such aid. I understand that this is more so in the field of secondary and primary education - although the need has not very much arisen yet - than in education at the tertiary level. 
The honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in the major part of his speech drew attention to some other areas of education not dealt with in this Bill. I can only suggest that, while what he said may have some element of truth and justice, there is not very much point at this stage in trying to bring in the whole field of education beyond and below the level dealt with in the Bill. If we do, we find that the honourable member for KingsfordSmith says that he wants a load of aid in other areas of education. He does not want higher taxation. Quite frankly, it is beyond my comprehension how we can achieve that in the simple way which he suggests. 
There is only one college in Tasmania to which this Bill applies. We do not in this matter have quite the problem that the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  has in his State. He referred to decentralisation as something which he thought should have operated more widely in his State. The college at issue in Tasmania is the Launceston Teachers College. It is highly regarded by the residents of that city, particularly because of the absence of other institutions of a university character. The building - it is already substantially apparent on the ground - is a notable improvement on the physical environment of the old Teachers College. I understand from people who work in the College that there are some imperfections despite the fact that the appearance and architecture in the broad are quite admirable. Among the developments is a console control of media. Apparently this is a notable achievement which has already been referred to in an Australian Council for Educational Research report. It is to be hoped that the intensity of planning by people on the spot and others, including the Commonwealth, will continue in other places and will achieve the same useful results. 
I do not imply that the total facilities of buildings such as the one I have referred to are necessarily used at their utmost efficiency. It has long been known, and more recently recognised in the community, that considerable capital stands in university and allied tertiary buildings, and perhaps others, outside the offices of research workers and other people of that kind and that often they are not used very much. There is an increasing tendency in the community to use them more, to recognise that some of the halls and lecture theatres may be used by associated, affiliated or interested public bodies which have some interest in those buildings. 
I understand that the library at the Launceston Teachers College is little, if at all, used at night by students. I understand the reason for this is that the students' lodgings are scattered to the four winds. This point relates specifically to the discussion we had last night concerning the desirability of residential accommodation close to the university concerned. While we might deplore the lack of incentive which does cause some students not to use library facilities at night I know of other areas, particularly in the university context, where libraries are used greatly at night. Presumably some of these latter people face the same residential difficulties. It is entirely relevant that some people should hold that in the piority of developments in these colleges it might well be better to think in terms of hostel buildings before gymnasiums and even administrative blocks and the like. Certainly some people hold that view in relation to the Launceston Teachers College. 
I indicated in my opening remarks that I think this measure is a great, contribution to education in the broad and to teachers colleges in particular, but to me the structural features of education are much more important. Obviously honourable members taking part in this debate are aware that there is a great need for more and for better trained teachers. The Martin Committee of 1961 spoke of a need for 51,600 primary teachers by 1969. By 1969 that estimated but I think fairly accurate need was 53,400. This represents an increase of about 3i% over the estimate of some 8 years previously. As for secondary teachers, the figures were rather more diverse. In 1961 the Martin Committee estimated that 35,000 secondary teachers would be needed. By the time we reached 1969 the number was over 42,000. This represents an increase of over 20% - quite a substantial rise above the predicted figure. Quite clearly these figures reveal a need to train more teachers who in turn may train more students further down the ladder. 
A feature of the second reading speech of the Minister for Education and Science was that he drew attention to 10% at least of places in these colleges being made available for private students, that is students not bonded to State Education Departments. I would like to draw further attention to this point by suggesting that this is an admirable feature of the provision of improved accommodation designed to increase the number of trainee teachers. There is a general move these days from 2 years to 3 years for primary teacher training courses. Again this involves a considerable increase in the necessity for accommodation. As this generates it will have to be taken into account by the planners. Doubtless they already have provided for it as best they can. 
None of the things I have said touches on the quality of students. This is a massive subject in itself. All these brick and mortar developments, even the structural changes, do not necessarily ensure that the quality of students entering these courses in teachers colleges is all that it might be. I know that some people who lecture to the students believe that their ability to think is somewhat wanting. If there is any point to this it is that education is a continuum. I think that in that sense I am agreeing, in part, with the honourable member for KingsfordSmith. The question arises as to how better to fit the students for the role they will play or act in these teachers colleges and when they go out as teachers. I prefer to leave this question to another time because as I said when referring to other people raising this point, this is not the place to discuss the whole broad field of education. Certainly the point should be made that the continuum character of this vital field of our life and learning is of interest to all of us. 
Another allied facet of this matter which should be given attention is the provision for teacher training in colleges of advanced education of $500,000 in Tasmania, $3.2m in New South Wales and S1.5m in Queensland. These sums, as I have indicated, are allied to the provision of $30m for teacher training colleges and should not, and doubtless will not, be forgotten by those States. This raises another educational issue about which, I have no doubt, the Minister could give me some assurance. I know that some people, including myself, are a little unclear as to what might be the relationship between teacher training colleges and advanced colleges of education. Again this is an absolutely structural feature underlying the whole concept and philosophy of making available this massive aid to teachers colleges in Australia. 
I want to conclude because the sitting soon will be suspended for lunch. This is indeed a major programme. The Minister drew attention to the 25% increase in this triennium. The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  drew attention to the fact that this assistance is now on a triennial basis. I agree with him that this is a great thing. This 25% increase over the $24m made available for the previous triennium substantiates what I said previously. 1 commend the Minister and his officers for making available $llm for each of the first 2 years. This certainly will facilitate the planning of the States in these fields, because they will have a fairly large slice of the cake in the early parts of the triennium. 
I commend the whole of the Minister's second reading speech on this Bill, except perhaps, his secretary's adoption of the now scientific term 'program' - without the final letters 'me'. However, on consulting the dictionary I found that this is of classical origin; so perhaps he is fulfilling his dual role as Minister for Education and Minister for Science in an admirable fashion. I trust that this Bill will be seen as a significant development of national education. Despite the imperfections of what we may have in other fields and the fact that we are not able to tax ourselves out of existence, I trust that shortly we will see other areas of education develop in similar fashion under this Government. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2 p.m. 
Has the Minister for Trade and Industry seen a recent announcement concerning the clearance of South African citrus "fruit for import into Japan? Is his department intending to examine the procedures by which approval was given, with a view to promoting the import into Japan of Australian citrus fruits and, eventually perhaps, pome fruits from Tasmanian and other Australian producers? 
Has the Minister for Education and Science seen the reported comments  in  recent days of 2 visiting educationists advocating the abolition of system? ls the Minister aware  of  the utter external examinations from our education impracticality of the English visitor's assertion - he is here on a government fellowship - that the teacher's job is to find out what the child requires for his growth and to provide it rather than to teach to a denned body of knowledge usually known as a syllabus? Has the Minister considered the destructive absurdity of the Americanbased educationist's remarks that real life, supported by television and films, is far in advance of systematic learning as a means of educating the young? Will the Minister take whatever steps he can within the jurisdiction of his Department to ensure that any removal of external examinations will result not from the acceptance of irresponsible criticism of our imperfect but firmly founded methods but rather from the development of alternatives whose superiority is demonstrable? 
Has the Minister for Labour and National Service received notice of a meeting today at which non.compliers wilh the National Service Act propose to draft a declaration opposing any civil labour alternative to the present provisions, namely, military service or gaol? Does the Minister know on what basis of belief or philosophy these people reject a mooted nonpenal provision which would enable them to avoid the commitment accepted by 99.8% of those drafted? Has the Minister considered widening the scope of national service to include matters of civil defence such as natural disaster relief and a coastguard service which would at once constitute a constructive contribution to the national welfare and obviate the protests of those who oppose national service as a means by which they can be involved in a particular war? 
My question refers to the recent statement on university salaries by the Minister for Education and Science. I refer to the one major recommendation of  Mr Justice  Eggleston's report which I believe is educationally unfortunate, namely, the award of a lesser percentage increase at the bottom of the lecturing scale than at the higher levels. Will the Minister give active consideration to redressing this differential treatment in a field of employment where the problem of attracting first class teachers or lecturers is more serious than that of holding established professors and where responsibility of work load and accountability for decisions taken are probably more equally shared than in any other field, including parliamentary office? 
A number of honourable members have indicated their support for the motion so 1 shall be reasonably brief. I believe that a certain amount of obscurantism is involved in what has been stated by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  and I think we should get one or two simple facts of the matter straight. The proposal is that we sit on a certain number of days on what is essentially taken to be a 12-week cycle. It is true, as the honourable member for Kingstom  (Dr Gun)  has pointed out, that we are not held to that 12 weeks cycle and that, if necessary, we could increase the number of sitting weeks. 
Let me draw some simple facts to the attention of those who do not appear to have them straight. The system under which we operated in the past was for a 3-day sitting week repeated 3 times and then we had a week off. The result was that there were 27 sitting days in a 12 weeks cycle which involved 18 trips to and from this place. For reasons which have been put forward, some of them specious and some of them correct, that developed into a 4-day sitting week repeated in the same cycle which, if we had gone the full term on it, would have given us 36 sitting days which still involved 18 trips to and from this place in a 12 weeks cycle. What is now proposed is 4 sitting days in 2 successive weeks with 1 week off making a 4 times effort for 12 weeks instead of 3. That will result in 32 sitting days and a mere 8 trips to and from this place. 
I suggest that the most relevant aspect brought forward when the specific matter was under discussion was that brought forward by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  He took up the points which had been made variously and at variance by several honourable members that they saw their main function, on the one hand, to be here and, on the other hand, to be back in their electorates. I think it was Duncan Sandys who once said that he was elected by the constituents of Streatham, if that was the electorate, to represent them in Parliament, not to represent the Parliament in Streatham. 
I think that is true although I allow the fact that the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  or whoever else feels the same way, may hold the view that working for the electors in the electorate is his prime function. The fact of the matter is that some people hold that view and some people hold the other view. Both views relate to the proper work of people elected to this place, and therefore the point made by the Minister that the system now proposed will make the most efficient use of the time, whether it is here or there, is the best point that has been made in this whole debate. We cannot make a direct analysis of the travelling time involved without taking up a lot of time. Let us assume that the average travelling time is half a day. We would be proposing 32 sitting days with 8 half day trips. That is 36 days out of the electorate in a 12 weeks cycle. Under the system operating at the end of the last session we would be using 45 days. 
This proposed arrangement is a compromise. There is no correct amount of sitting time. Presumably the logic of the honourable member for Chifley is that we should sit 2 days a week each week of the year and we would then be able to watch the Executive very closely indeed. I do not have quite the same fears. However, I understand his point of view even though I may not agree with him. I have used a little more arithmetic than most honourable members have tonight. In terms of a compromise We have offered to us now the best compromise. It seems to me that the honourable member for Chifley has not been very informed or else some of us are more stupid than we look. He could have been told that he has several more honourable members - and notably new members - on h!s side of the House who have been independently involved in trying to evolve a system such as this which will increase the efficiency of the operation of this place and thereby, some of us think, the workings of the Parliament and perhaps even the furthering of democracy in at least one of its manifestations. I regard it as absolute nonsense to suggest that the Executive has suddenly decided that it has not enough power and it wants to get more by putting up a system such as this. I think that is utter balderdash. 
I take a point with the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor).  I cannot see that he can in any way substantiate his assertion that Parliament is being downgraded by the system which has been put before us. J cannot for the life of me see on any statistical or other count how that statement can be substantiated. If it can be I look forward to the point being made later during this debate. As to the matters of being here or in the electorate the question of compromise comes up again. I find myself totally unmoved by the remarks of the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  and one or two other honourable members. I think he put his position most explicitly. He is used to meeting his electors on a Monday morning. He may be used to taking bath on a Saturday night but that is no reason For not having it twice a week or changing the time to Thursdays. That sort of inflexibility is something which the honourable member for Sydney should not be particularly proud of however long he may have practised meeting his constituents on a Monday, lt would be a simple mat'.er to change the meeting day to a Friday or a Saturday or some other day which will he suitable because of the result of the propositions which are now before us. 
It is not often that I have found myself in disagreement in the short time that I have been here with my colleague the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  but I cannot help commenting on his introduction of basically relevant - and I think specifically irrelevant for the moment - factors such as the number of days other people meet in Ottawa  of  in Westminster, where, in the cast of the Mouse of Commons, there are three or four times as many members as we have here and everybody lives in and around London. 1 cannot see that that is relevant to a negation of or opposition to the current proposition. I cannot help but feel with due respect that he may have a slightly jaundiced view of this matter. 
That may be so. 1 can sympathise with the point of view of the honourable member. I hope that 1 will nol have to hold it in 15 years time. I do not believe that there is anything more of real consequence which I can add except to take up a point which I think is relevant, even though we may debate this again on another section of this question, and that is the question of daily times. Obviously this matter affects people such as the members of standing committees. Honourable members will . see that it is proposed to have 2 days which begin in the afternoon. There are 2 days proposed to commence in the morning. Essentially that is the position which we now have. With a small fluctuation of half an hour or an hour or so at the end of the day as is now proposed the position is essentially the same. Even though the Minister raised the matter of hours as distinct from sitting days, these are of secondary importance compared with sitting days and the mechanics of their compression into  2  weeks. I put that point very strongly and I hope that there will be at least a majority, as there appears to be so far in this chamber, who hold essentially that point of view. 
I do not know if it is of consequence to this debate but I might say that 1 do not think I have ever seen more than half as many people voluntarily in the chamber at this lime of the night in the time thai I have been here. Perhaps this means that there is some amount of interest in the procedures of the House as distinct from some other matters which appear to be more substantive. 

 Mr CLYDE CAMERON (Hindmarsh) 111.5]  -  Although 1 have not had many opportunities to say this I have always said that the Parliament is at its best when it can debate any subject on a non-party basis, with each man being free to speak as he wishes and to vote as his conscience directs and dictates. This is one of those rare occasions when this has happened during the 20 years I have been a member of this Parliament. This proposal was first put to members of this Parliament, but not to Parliament, 12 years ago by the then honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I supported the proposal then and I support it now. The Caucus of my Party by majority vote supported it then and I am glad to know that the Caucus of my Party has decided by majority vote that it will not bind all of its members to vote for it now when some members in the Caucus now, as was the case 12 years ago. disagree with the proposal. 1 think that this is a proposal that ought lo be decided according to how each honourable member feels. I think that the Parliament should always deal as a Parliament with any proposals affecting its own 
Standing Orders and not as a rubber stamp for a government or a rubber stamp for an Opposition or any other party. 
On this subject we are surely speaking as parliamentarians and as individual parliamentarians. We are speaking for or against the proposal according to the way in which we see the proposition as it will affect us - 1 hope not as individuals but as parliamentarians - and as we think it will affect us as representatives of our respective electorates. The present proposal is now inescapable because the Government has decided that it will use its numbers to alter the number of sitting days from 3 to 4 until this matter is determined. Therefore the present proposal is not the proposal we have been accustomed to in previous sessions. The present proposal for the purpose of this debate ought to be at once recognised as a proposal which envisages the sittings of 4 days each week, sitting from Tuesday to Friday with each Friday in Canberra for 3 consecutive weeks, followed by 10 days in the electorate each 4 weeks. The proposal is that we sit 4 days a week - the same as will be the case if this is defeated - for 2 consecutive weeks instead of 3, which will require honourable members to be in Canberra for only 1 Friday and 1 Monday, to he followed by 10 consecutive clays in their electorates each 3 weeks instead of each 4 weeks. Now we have 10 consecutive days in our electorates every 4 weeks. Under the proposal before us we will get 10 consecutive days in our electorates every 3 weeks. I would most certainly favour the second of the two proposals because, as one who believes that the electorate is entitled to proper attention, I can see that it will give me an opportunity to give my attention to my electorate on 10 consecutive days in every 3 weeks instead of 10 consecutive days in every 4 weeks. The only questions which remain are: Will I be neglecting my parliamentaryduties by giving my electorate this additional time? Does the proposal mean that I will have fewer sitting hours in the Parliament? If it does. I would hesitate to support it; but it docs not. If one examines the proposal one will see that, although it will allow us to spend more days in our electorates than is now possible over, say, a 12-week period, it will also allow us more sitting time in the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for 
Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Has a recent research grant of approximately $31,000 to Carlton and United 'Breweries of Victoria been used for research into hop extracts. 
Is it known whether the results of such research might prejudice the competitive ability of Tasmanian hop-growers. 
Is the Minister for Health aware that some thousands of people throughout Australia are prevented by religious belief, based on a literal interpretation of the Bible, from becoming members of the Commonwealth health benefits plan? Is he aware that these, people - and I base this assertion on representations made to me in Hobart - are prepared to pay the equivalent of health scheme subscriptions into consolidated revenue in order to qualify for benefits? Can he say what effect this might have on the Government's decision not to implement the Nimmo Committee's recommendation that religious or conscientious objection to joining voluntary organisations such as the health scheme should be accommodated? 
The constructive approach is always to be preferred to the destructive approach, but I should like to spend some of my time this evening in examining what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said in his attack on the Budget. I have what amounts to a very simple view on matters such as budgets. Basically speaking, the pluses and the minuses should cancel out. The Leader of the Opposition gave us a positive catalogue of expenditure pluses. He gave us also a catalogue of what purported to be Government errors, lt is the prerogative of the Leader of the Opposition to avoid, if he wishes, putting forward constructive proposals, but if he is talking of destroying the Government on the basis of its Budget he has a duty to put forward viable substitutes for the proposals of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  We look in vain for where the Leader of the Opposition has suggested that cuts might be made to make up for those pluses. Not even in regard to defence does he have the courage of his convictions and suggest a cut. He even goes so far as to say that the Government is making inadequate provision for defence. 
The Leader of the Opposition made much of the larger absolute savings, through tax concessions, by higher income earners and taxpayers than savings by those on the lower scales. We have heard this argument before and we will probably hear it again. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  very capably pointed out at an earlier stage of this debate that only regressive taxation will solve the situation. The Leader of the 
Opposition spoke of injustice and inequity when referring to a man on a salary of $10,000 who receives tax relief of about $350 while a man on a salary of $3,000 receives tax relief of about $50. Presumably, his justice and his equity demand that each of those persons receives the same absolute relief. How then does he relate relief to what is paid? To me this is, if nothing else, a decidedly specious argument. His table 8 which is printed in Hansard shows that 22% of households were in the $3,000 to $4,000 income bracket in 1968. The Commonwealth Income Tax Statistics for the assessment year 1968-69 show the number of taxpayers in that bracket to have been just over 1 million out of a total of 5 million taxpayers - that is a little over 20% - in that area of income. This suggests, although it does not prove, that, with the increasing number of working wives, a considerable increase in the proportion of people in those categories and higher categories is indicated than is provided in the table submitted by the Leader of the Opposition. 
I might make an aside here to suggest that the tabulations to which I have referred are to some extent misleading in that the intervals jump from $200 to $1,000 at the S4.000 level. Unless one is alert or attuned to reading tabulations and statistics one could easily be misled as to the distribution of income earners. One of the very few analytical Press comments which were directed at the attack of the Leader of the Opposition on the Budget drew his attention to what appears to be the highest incidence of taxation - probably in the world and certainly in comparable countries - in the income bracket from $8,000 to $16,000. That might sound a lot to some people, but because the Leader of the Opposition is proposing a great number of expenditure pluses then we imagine that this is the area from which he will draw some of the receipts with which to offset some of those expenditure pluses. Will the Leader of the Opposition collect extra tax from his often affluent legal friends? He has not mentioned it, or them, and I look forward to the time when he lays that on the line. 
The Leader of the Opposition throws up his hands at indirect taxation. The honourable member for Lilley has already drawn attention to British Labour attitudes to indirect taxation. 1 should like to add one thing to what he had to say so effectively. One of the things that was added in the British context of indirect taxation was a thing called the selective employment tax. If one is looking for inequity, there is inequity. The selective employment tax put a levy on service industries, including people in hotels, offices and elsewhere and paid an incentive to people in manufacturing industry on the incredible assumption that the manufacturers who produced things that could be dropped on the toe were the only people contributing to the economy. This happened in Britain, it is true. But I pose the question: What can we expect of that kind of thing under a Socialist budgeting programme? It would be well for us to consider the possibilities. I recognise that Socialism is no longer a dirty word but I should like to draw attention very briefly to some of the things that it implies. Is the public aware that by Socialism, dirty word or otherwise, we should expect controls, increasing controls, and many of them? That is implicit in any suggestion of the kind of thing which the Leader of the Opposition wishes to impose on the Australian public. It is essentially anti-incentive. If it ever comes to pass it will show many people just what they should have understood by the words 'lucky country', because they will then realise that what they had before was indeed a lucky country. 
The Leader of the Opposition permitted himself another round of hand-raising and condemnation when he described tax cuts of $289m, or 10%, as being socio-political rather than economic decisions. Are we seriously to believe that he would or could produce a purely economic budget, untrammelled by the pressures of the trade unions, the pensioners or his own social priorities? 1 am saying in other words that such assertions by the Leader of the Opposition are pure hypocrisy and cant. 
Leader of the Opposition in that way he might withdraw them. 
It is immaterial to me,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I withdraw the remarks if the word 'hypocrisy' is offensive. I have heard more offensive words in this chamber. 
For the record I submit that a word such as 'hypocrisy' is purely a matter of private assessment. I might make such an assessment; somebody else might not. I believe that I am still entitled to make an assessment. Let me take up the matter of pensions. It would be agreed by everyone here in this House, and elsewhere perhaps, that no-one here would choose to live on the pension unsupplemented by any other source of income. I think it is only fair to ask, in view of all that has been said by honourable members opposite, what is understood by the philosophy of the pension. This question was bypassed in all the recent discussions which I have heard. As 1 understand it, the pension was instigated as a supplement to a lifetime of earning and thrift, lt implied that people of a certain age at a certain level of existence would be receiving help from their families and relatives. In this country it appears that that is not considered to be an obligation any more, although it is still very much an obligation in other countries, particularly those countries to which we are increasingly directing our attention. I refer to the countries of the East. In such countries there is a considerable obligation of offspring to take some part in the welfare of their parents. 
That is quite so. It appears that in this affluent society young marrieds regard collecting of cars, radios, washing machines, floor polishers and the like as a substitute for parental care, leaving the Government to pick up the tab for the care of the aged. If this is the generally held view we must concede that the philosophy of the pension has changed. I, no doubt like many people in this chamber and outside, have talked with many pensioners. 1 regret that I have not had the time or the inclination to keep statistics. Of the hundreds or perhaps thousands of people to whom I talked, more expressed resentment of bludgers - I think that is a permitted word these days - than of the amount of the pension. 
In effect, this is an argument in favour of compulsory national insurance. A system of compulsory national insurance would overcome the problem of those who do not during their working lives provide for their retirement. No longer would we have the improvident depending on the provident, lt must be admitted that a national insurance scheme, which in my view is inevitable, would overcome the problem to which I have referred. I have a feeling that we are moving in this direction. If such a scheme were introduced by this Government or by any other government, we should not forget that current wage earners will have to pay for it. Honourable members should not advocate national insurance and at the same time ask for lower taxes so as to offset payments that wage earners are currently making. In other words, the off-spring to whom I referred who, in the main, are no longer prepared to look after their parents, will be paying for their future and for the future of those who have not as yet been provided for. We should bear in mind at the same time that roughly $3,000m of the almost $8,000m that the Government receives comes from personal income tax. 
Without appearing to be unsympathetic to the cause of people on fixed incomes, particularly the pension, I think it is less than fair to assume that the pensioners have suddenly arrived, penniless, from outer space. By definition, they have been with our society for at least 60 years. It is totally unfair to suggest that they have suddenly appeared and that they should fend for themselves. From one viewpoint, they have fended for themselves for 60 or 65 years. We should not forget also the fringe benefits attached to the pension. It is true that they are not vast, but it is also true that they are hardly ever mentioned. We toss off $15 or $15.50 or $26.50, whatever the figure might be, but we do not talk about the cheaper bus rides and the reduced electricity charges. Those benefits are significant even if they are not vast. We should not forget, as the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  appeared to do - he did not forget the topic, but he took another viewpoint altogether - that payments on an insurance policy, however small and if not too large, are tax deductible. This is another small incentive to people to look after themselves. 
Among several social areas which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  designated as low in the Liberal order of priorities because, he alleged, they are regarded only as a cost, is education. Irrelevant' and 'inconsequential' were the words which he applied to the increased Commonwealth scholarships and research funds. It is true that the Leader of the Opposition is a man of words, but he is not the only man of words in this place, as will be well known. I suggest that his comments were both irrational and immature. A 25% increase in direct educational expenditure, a 29% increase in specific education payments to the States, and greatly increased general revenue to the States to service education and other matters of choice by the States are largely glossed over by our friends on the opposite side of the House. 
This week the Government Members Education Committee met a delegation from the New South Wales Teachers Federation. The sincerity of the people we met was not doubted. The importance of education was not in issue with us or with the people who met us. It was certainly not an issue with me because I have spent the whole of my working life in education. In asking for a number 1 priority for education, which in itself is a reasonable request, we were assured that the great majority of people were in favour of it. But no mention was made of the fact that the same people, with perhaps some few exceptions, were clamouring for tax relief. Which way do the people want the chips to fait? They cannot have it all ways at all times. 
Another phrase from the Leader of the Opposition's castigation of the Government's Budget was 'misallocation of resources'. This, I believe, and 'inequality' were his 2 main themes. As far as I know, there is no long term comprehensive national blueprint for development, but how would the States like such a blueprint? We deal essentially with their priorities and we are told frequently and at length that the States are best suited to order those priorities. I believe that we need better proof than we have been given that our 5th ranking in average investment to gross national product in the years 1958 to 1967 compared with our 14th ranking in average annual growth rate of gross domestic product per capita for the years 1960 to 1967 tends to show that there is a misallocation of resources. Not only are different years and different measures compared - one absolute and the other per capita - but also these figures, while useful guidelines, are notoriously undependable on an international basis. 
It is a pity that the Leader of the Opposition was not here in 1788 or in 1901 - for 2 main reasons; because if he had been the whole show could have been planned from the beginning and, secondly, he would not be here now. Of more immediate interest than that is the honourable gentleman's riding the bandwagon of environmental deterioration in pursuit of this moving platform of increased growth. Which does he want - growth, conservation or both? He can have one or both, if he wants, but I look forward to ascertaining how he proposes to do it. Has he investigated the realities of the urban congestion, the rundown transport and the road chaos to which he referred? For example I instance the $600,000 spent by the Queensland Government on an industrial estate outside Townsville in an endeavour to get some of the capital city's industry to that area. This expenditure is currently providing for 1 tile factory with 8 workers. That is pretty costly decentralisation. I instance the recent report of the New South Wales Department of Decentralisation on its study of the problems associated with decentralisation. A perusal of that report will show that metropolitan conditions are still overwhelmingly attractive, rather than the reverse, for industrial location. In fact, only in Tasmania is significant industrial decentralisation to be found, based on an unusual, for Australia, decentralisation of population, on a partly fortunate distribution of natural resources and also on the greater availability of port access and waterways than is general in the other States. 
I Suggest, without any great intrepidity, that it will be some time before the diseconomies that drive industries from New York and some of the other large cities of the world operate in our cities. That is not to say that we should not be mindful of the situation and that more studies should not be carried out. But it is, in fact, a good deal different from casting a wide net of urban turmoil, congestion and chaos. I suggest, further, that there will never be one-twelfth of our people below the poverty line. We know that everything is relative, but at the same time there are absolutes and I regard something like poverty as absolute. Anybody who has been to India, or has seen the Favellas outside the major cities of South America, the Gorbals of Glasgow or the back streets of Dublin is talking nonsense when he talks of poverty in the absolute sense. 
I turn now to the question of inequalities. Of course, we could say much about and draw many examples of inequality. That will be the day when this world is full of equal people. I hope I am not here. But in terms of inequality - and the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  drew some attention to this in a parallel sense - I should like to point up the questions which have not been pointed up by the Opposition - questions such as low labour effort, short hours and high wages. Let us compare ourselves with the Japanese and Germans in the post-wai period or with the Dutch in their rehabilitation. Compare ourselves if we will - and we are not being honest if we do not - with the new Australians who come to this country and work themselves into the ground, in fact work in the other direction well above the ground in most cases, whereas many of the old Australians sit on their b-t-m's. If I were paid by the hour at wharfie's rates 1 would make a fortune in this place, and I would have made a fortune before I came here. If a fraction of the work force were on the job as much as the much-maligned members of this chamber are - and I do not want to strain public credulity too far - productivity would increase and we would solve our lax problems practically overnight. We know that some tasks  -  to quote one of our cultural figures, and 1 am not sure whether it was G. B. Shaw or Chips Rafferty - are b..... boring, but the fact is that nearly everybody runs into that sort of problem. To me it is little excuse for wanting to work oneself totally out of a job. We might ask ourselves at this stage why, if this is not tenable or even if it is tenable, is there disruption in the labour sphere. Why this labour disruption? I make a simple suggestion which I am sure will be unpalatable to members opposite. I suggest that the left wing is being taken into the Labor Party to show a superficial unity for electoral and perhaps other purposes and that that is the reason why we are getting the labour disruption which is all too prevalent at present. 1 come now to a couple of final and fundamental questions. Why do we tax ourselves so heavily across the board? Again, the answers may seem to be unduly simple to some people, but they are not often talked about. In Australia we have low population densities, both rural and urban. In fact they are the lowest population densities of any comparable area if not any area in the world. Even our urban densities are far less than those of comparable areas. In only a few cities of the United States of America can we find comparably low urban densities. What is the result of this? The consequences are that services are very expensive. The cost of miles of piping, road, telephone lines and other services is much greater per capita than in any other comparable urban area of the world. However we always compare what we have - our standard of living, our rates of income and the rest - with the United States, with Great Britain and with Sweden. The United Stales has roughly the same area but about twenty times our population; Great Britain has about one-thirtieth of our area and five times our population; and Sweden has had a long standing policy of isolationism with no problem of having been knocked to heck in 2 world wars. If this is our standard of comparison we should be comparing also the disadvantages of what has been called, in a book of some consequence, the tyranny of distance, lt is here; it is with us; it will not go away and it is absolutely basic to the high costs of providing comparable services, and even better services in some cases, in Australia than in other developed nations. In other words, if we want comparable services on all fronts and at once we will have to pay heavily. 
Wc will probably have to pay more heavily for defence, for local government services and right across the board. 
The Australian Labor Party's opposition to taxation in almost any form except way up the scales is often based, in terms of the specific example, on the low wage large family complex, as it were. Most people assume that the ability to have children is a God-given right. I would equally assume that the intelligence of homo sapiens is a God-given right and I would further assume that there is no compulsion on somebody on $3,000, $2,000, $1,000 or any number of thousands of dollars a year to have 10 children if he cannot afford them, and facilities are available these days to eliminate any necessity to have them. 
The Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues would have us believe that this country is in turmoil. I would suggest that saying so does not make it so, although it is worth a try politically, I suppose. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  yesterday said that we ought to have the courage of our convictions and face an early election. What absolute bunkum! lt is less than one year since we had a Federal election from which we gained a mandate, no matter how gallingly small it was to the Labor Party. Now we are asked to have an election on a balanced Budget. This is utter nonsense. At least the Leader of the Opposition himself was candid enough to say that there was thrust and direction in our Budget. Perhaps he does not like the direction, and he says so, but at least it was a positive acknowledgment. It is better than the carping criticism to which we are so often subjected. I may have forgottan someone but I think that the only opposition members who have admitted to any good works done by the Government have been the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  and, I might add, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  who did so this evening. 
Not a word do we hear from the Leader of the Opposition and his followers about incentives which are basic to Liberal philosophy. The lack of it was, I submit, al the base of the decline of the British economy. We have, finally, the implication that if the Leader of the Opposition took over the wheel of government - if I may divert from the old 'reins of government' cliche - the country would be run practically by management consultants. Do not let us make any mistake about this; it would be run by the front bench opposite, and if we think the deficiencies in our leaders and their policies are real I can only suggest that a well known American literary comment would apply to the advent of the Opposition front bench - 'You ain't seen nothin' yet'. I suggest that not only would the front bench opposite be running the country, and its budgets and its economy per se, but it would be doing the Cairns dance to a Hawkish tune. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  1 wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster).  I have been accused of having, from the concrete jungles of Tasmania, wished upon the Australian people a standard of poverty of Asiatic, I think the word was, dimensions. May I indicate what I had to say on this matter last night? I said:   . . there will never be one-twelfth of our people below the poverty line. We know that everything is relative, but at the same lime there are absolutes and I regard something like poverty as absolute. Anybody who has been to India or South America and seen the  Favellas  outside the major cities in those areas, the G or by ls of Glasgow and the back streets of Dublin is talking nonsense when he talks of poverty in the absolute sense. 
I was accused of running out of the chamber - I left it to get a definition of poverty. There are many definitions. 
The point simply is that a poverty line, which is the general context of this matter, is a level of poverty implying destitution. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the very successful conduct of the recent conference in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea of the Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science? Is he further aware that certain scientists who visited the Territory and travelled widely in it were sufficiently impressed with the rate of achievement there to urge upon me the view that this Government should resist current pressures to accelerate greatly the programme of education for self government? 
I move: 
That the following words be added to paragraph (1): subject to the following amendments: 

<graphic href="069131197009033_101_0.jpg"></graphic>

1 wish as far as possible to retain the spirit of this amendment and I will try to be very brief. Because the amendment might appear to be a radical proposal I think a few brief  words  of explanation are in order, lt was made clear on a similar sort of motion some week or two ago that a committee of honourable members from both sides of this House has been meeting informally because of their interest in the procedures of the House and their interest in trying to develop a more efficient means of operation It so happened that the Standing Orders Committee was meeting at the same time and had been meeting before that. It brought down a finding at roughly the same time as this committee arrived at a finding. I wish to make it clear that I am not speaking only for myself but also for about 10 people who are mostly new members in this House but not entirely so. 
Honourable members will be very much aware that we recently decided that we will be sitting longer than we have been, except for the immediate interim period that we are just about to put behind us. In that sense we are not attempting to curtail the speaking opportunities of honourable members of the House. It has been suggested that any proposal to reduce the individual speaking times may be curtailing the role of the backbencher. All I can say is that this group of backbenchers which I represent- largely new members - does not in fact see that to be so. It is perfectly clear to those of us who have not been here for very long that there are some honourable members in this House, who for good reasons or otherwise, feel it essential to take up the full time available for a speech, irrespective of whether they have anything to say. While it is true to say that anybody can protract an argument for an indefinite period, I think the view generally held by the people for whom I now speak is that very few of the speeches in this chamber benefit by extending beyond 20 minutes. It is on this basis that we believe that the now proposed 40 minute speech should be reduced to 30 minutes and the now proposed 25 minute speech should be reduced to 20 minutes. That is the general proposition. Honourable members have the details in front of them. 
I would like to suggest only this, that if honourable members who have been used to having 30 or 45 minutes fear that they will be deprived possibly of being able to impress their electors or the public at large, I can only suggest that in my view their psychology is awry. Very few people can, without break or without the use of illustrations, lecture to an audience and hold its attention unless they are very much gifted - much more so that most are here - in dialectics. They will find that a diminishing return sets in after about 20 minutes. While it is true that the occasional speech in this place may reach heights which should project it beyond 30 minutes or even 40 minutes, I believe that this rarely happens. 
My final point is that 1 do not think we should try to pull the wool over the eyes of members. If honourable members are interested in the quality of their speeches and if, as was suggested during the debate on a motion earlier tonight, people are interested, whether they are listening to the debate during meal hours or at any other time, they should recognise that a vote in favour of shorter speeches will in fact be a vote for better preparation of speeches, if they want them to be effective. In other words, if a member has to put a point in 20 minutes instead of 30 minutes or 40 minutes, he will have to put it more succinctly. That is my proposition and I hope that I have made it clear to honourable members. I believe that the Parliament will benefit from having shorter speaking times and, thereby, a greater possible frequency of speaking. 
 I would like to compliment the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  on the clarity of his contribution to this debate and to take up one or two of the points that have been mentioned, notably that made by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who saw fit to talk of the traditions of Westminster but told us only half the story. 1 believe that all members of the House have received from the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  a table showing comparable quorums in other parliaments of the world. I am afraid that I do not have the document with me now but we know that other leading parliaments have quorums of as little as 5 per cent or 6 per cent of their membership. If we are going to talk about the House of Commons - and I think we might well do so  -  I believe that its quorum is 6 per cent of 617 members. That is to say, in the terms used by the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  and others, 37 members out of 617 can pass legislation. We have been shown the great spectre of a handful of men who have been elected to this place passing important legislation. All I can say is that it will be a much larger handful than is found in most other parliaments. 
If the honourable member wishes to draw comparisons with other parliaments he should take the total comparison and not select bits and pieces which suit his purpose. I believe that this is the relevance of the matter. At the same time 1 acknowledge that there are one or two parliaments - the Parliament of Tasmania is, I think, one in point - where in fact the quorum is a little higher. The table shows that the Tasmanian House of Assembly has a 40 per cent quorum with a membership of only 35, but as we go down the list we see that Western Australia has 33i per cent, New South Wales 21 per cent, South Africa 18 per cent, India 10 per cent and the United Kingdom House of Commons  6i  per cent. I submit that this is a slightly more balanced assessment than one or two we have bad hitherto. This does not mean that honourable members who have already put their view, or those who may do so later, are not entitled to that view; but the suggestion that a reduction in the proportion from one-third to 25 per cent - that is 25 out of 125 here - will see all these members high tailing it out of here and lead swinging around the country is, I think, entirely unfounded. I do not think honourable members do themselves justice in suggesting that. Having been here a short time I do not believe they do justice to me either or to any of the other people 1 know in that category. We have heard at length in the course of parallel debates to this one that committee work is important and increasingly so. What are we going to do about it? Are we all going to rush off and leave the committees standing? Honourable members, including those who suggested otherwise, know very well that we will be engaged in this House for most of the time if we are not in this chamber. So I believe that those honourable members misrepresent to the public who are listening to the broadcast of proceedings the function of this Parliament if they suggest that by such a reduction as is proposed we are just going to be lead swinging. They know darned well that we will not be doing so and that we will be engaged in other and parallel functions of Parliamentarians. Finally, because there are other people who wish to speak, may I merely underline the point that the vote on principle in this matter was a free vote so there can be no suggestion that the vote was pressured, railroaded or rammed through. We have taken a vote on principle which, in effect, is the vote on a particular matter. There is only one thing at stake here and that is the number making up a quorum. In other words, those who were beaten on a free vote are making a last ditch stand to recommit the same matter as was won on principle. 
That is entirely true because there is no alternative interpretation. 
 I am sorry, the honourable member may have changed his mind. But the matter is still the same whether it is in principle or in practice. The effect will be the same. I submit very strongly that we have already made up our minds on this. I see no reason to change my mind, nor do I think Parliament will be denigrated or downgraded if this proposal is put into effect. 
Does the Minister for Labour and National Service see any incongruity in the frequent protests by members of the Australian Labor Party at annual profits of some tens of millions of dollars by leading Australian productive enterprises employing many thousands of workers while, in 3 days of late August, the anti-productive withdrawal of labour on the Australian waterfront cost shipowners almost S2m? 
My question, which is directed to the Attorney-General, is asked against the background of an increasing inclination to blame society for individuals' transgressions of its rules of operation, and of the Attorney-General's expressed interest in the importance of those rules. Is there any means by which the honourable gentleman can stay ex cathedra announcements by supposedly learned and responsible members of the judiciary such as that reported recently in which culpability for a soldiers strangulation of a defenceless woman was laid partly at the door of the Army? Does the Attorney-General agree that the absurdity of this logic in relation to intelligent human beings will hold driving teachers responsible for the car accidents of their former pupils and schools will cease to teach arithmetic lest their pupils grow up with a sufficient appreciation of money to bring down budgets or to rob banks? 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. As we all know, the Australian Broadcasting Commission is periodically accused of bias, probably without real justification. So that bias shall not only be absent but appear to be absent, will the Minister draw to the attention of the appropriate officer the fact that for 21 years the Liberal Party has been organised through State divisions, intra-State electorates and local branches, but its activities are consistently reported in the terminology of the Australian Labor Party, which consists of branches and subbranches 

 - Mr Chairman, it was Edmund Burke, I think, who said: 'To tax and to please is no more possible than to love and be wise'. The reaction and response of the Opposition to the Budget, the debate on which preceded the debate on the Estimates, could fairly be summed up in that vein. I am a little disappointed to hear the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  damning the Government's attempts at the Commonwealth level in the educational sphere with such faint praise. That is not to say that I do not feel a good deal of sympathy for a number of points which he made. 
Nevertheless, the fact remains that we are operating in perhaps the most difficult field to establish lines of communication and lines of direction that it is possible to imagine. Although the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1970-71 provides $129m for the Department of Education and Science, we have under review a total proposed government expenditure of some $3 12m on education for the 1970-71 period. That amount does not include all the trappings of education in the broader sense. We have, for instance, $45m earmarked for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation which, in the broadest sense of education, certainly has many implications for the development of learning in this country. 
I suggest that this is a difficult area of operation, lt is difficult I think, for 2 main reasons. First, it is open ended, lt would not matter what was done at the Commonwealth level, what the States did or what anybody did; there would always be the capacity and in fact the need to spend more in the educational sphere. The second reason is that there are very many viewpoints in the educational field. 1 might say as a generalisation that nearly everyone thinks that he or she knows something about primary education. Rather fewer people, but still a great proportion of the community, think that they have something to offer or certainly have some interest in the secondary sphere of education. Very much fewer know anything about tertiary education and that tends to be left a little more alone by the public at large. I do not suggest that these are bad things. In fact, it is good that there should be a universal or nearly universal interest in education. But valuable though that might be, the fact remains that a great deal of money is required from a pool in which experts and so-called experts are trying to point the way. 
I do not put those points forward as being any face saver at all for what the Commonwealth Government is doing in education. To suggest these difficulties is not meant to be any sort of red herring or an excuse. As I have said, the Commonwealth Government has provided for education$3 12m this year, $249m last year and in 1966-67, some 4 years ago, $143m. So it can be seen that the Com 

<graphic href="069131197009243_36_0.jpg"></graphic>

monwealth's involvement is in fact very real. With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate in Hansard tables which appear at pages 42 and 43 of the August 1970 bulletin of the Department of Education and Science. 

<graphic href="069131197009243_37_4.jpg"></graphic>

Those statistics bear directly on what I am saying at the moment. They indicate, for example, that direct expenditure by the Commonwealth on education has increased over the period from 1961-62 to 1970-71 by very nearly 500 per cent- 471 per cent or 472 per cent - and that expenditure on various other facets of education has increased by much the same order. For example, expenditure on scholarships and allowances has increased by 374 per cent in that period of some 9 years. So it is a little bit rough to suggest that the Commonwealth is hardly cognisant of what is happening in this field or that it has no real intention to improve the lot of education. 
I believe that I can hardly disagree with one point which was made by the honourable member for Fremantle; in fact, I agree with it very thoroughly. He emphasised the need for quality in education. It is an abstract quantity, if we can use that term in relation to quality; it is a difficult thing to pin down. It is entirely in the hands of the educators, and the educators themselves are in the hands of other educators before them. If I may express a view which might not find total or universal acceptance, education has in many ways become a status symbol. In the postwar period there has been, to my way of thinking, a constant watering down of educational programmes and curricula largely by the infusion of increasing amounts of social content so that all can be in a process progressively, unfortunately progressively to my way of thinking, lacking in discipline. Teachers become less selected, students become less selective and the end point of that, if it continues, is a magnificent mediocrity. 
I do not have time, nor would it be appropriate at this stage, to embark on a full scale debate, at least from my end of the stick, on comprehensive schooling and that sort of thing. At the moment we are dealing with rather more specific matters. But that, of course, bears on the point which I have just raised. I should like to take the honourable member for Fremantle up on one or two of his remarks. He said that the number of scholarships had not in any notable way increased. I think he could be held to that remark. For example, the number of university scholarships has increased from 20,500 in 1966 to 30,500 in i 970. The number of graduates has  increased from about 34 per hundred thousand of the population in 1959 to 96 nearly three times as many per hundred thousand of the population in 1969. It is obvious that this sort of increase has put tremendous demands on the education purse. 
In that sense, of course, we very rapidly come to the question of FederalState involvement in this field. I have a view on this matter. To put it very briefly, it is inherently a view which holds that while the Commonwealth should be very considerably involved, as it is, in the educational sphere it cannot be held to be totally responsible. There are a number of varying viewpoints on this matter. Some bodies in the States would very much like the Commonwealth to give money earmarked for education but not any more specifically than that. That would enable the Commonwealth to be taken to task when any inadequacy could be shown to exist in these educational grants but not in such detail as might become embarrassing. In other words, if the Commonwealth were to give, as it has recently, increased moneys to the States and were to say to the States: 'You decide how you will distribute that money; you take the responsibility as to whether it is spent on roads, bridges, education or whathaveyou', the Commonwealth would stand much more firmly and would be much less open to ridicule and criticism in that area. I believe that that is about what should be done. 
What can be done can be illustrated varying by what has happened in the States. I do not have all the figures but, for example, the New South Wales Budget which was recently brought down proposes the expenditure of 43 per cent of total funds on education. That is not a bad proportion of the total income or revenues of the State to be spent oh education. I am quite sure that many people in New South Wales educationists and others, and the same would apply in the other States could point to many inadequacies in education in that State. But given the increases in expenditure, the increased interest in the number of fields as illustrated in the tables which have been incorporated in Hansard, it is totally unfair to suggest that these things can be changed overnight. 1 think other people will take up the need for an education survey, but I should like to query the honourable member for Fremantle's apparently uncritical acceptance of that. It may well be better than it looks, but I am immediately suspicious that the State Ministers, in whose hands the result of that survey rests it is not with the Commonwealth have seen fit to publish what they have published in the very broadest sense. It does not mean very much to me that they might need another S 1,400m. At least, that was the figure before the increased moneys were given to the States in the recent Premiers Conference. But it does not mean a thing to me that they think they want that much over the next 5 years, or whatever the period is. I want to know where it is wanted, by whom and why. Until such time as the State Ministers see fit to publish meaningful figures, I cannot go along with the honourable member for Fremantle in accepting that as the total needs. 
The honourable member merely substantiates what I have said - that it would not matter where you went or how much was done, there would still be things to do. That is no excuse. It is merely an observation about education that will exist from now to kingdom come. It is up to the Victorian Government, or to some other State government, to order priorities and to use the greatly increased moneys made available by the Commonwealth for education and other specified or unspecified purposes for those priorities so that the glaring things that hit one in the eye as one tours around somewhere or other are not so glaring in a year or two. But that is not the business of the Commonwealth. In fact, it would be very severely resisted by the States - it always has been - if the Commonwealth were to get involved in the detail - I need not say trivia - of day to day educational needs. In that sense I come back to agree with the honourable member for Fremantle who said that the concept of quality in education is the first thing to which we should be looking. It cannot be divorced totally from bricks and mortar, but there are educational authorities which see education as something which relates very heavily to bricks and mortar and they often are not quite so concerned about quality which bears on teacher training, curricula and that sort of thing. 
I want to make one or two observations in the short time remaining to me. Expenditure in the field of education is not by. any means as efficient as it might be. I would be very hard pressed to prove that statement, but from some personal knowledge I think I could say that even universities - perhaps people would like to leave out uni versities - which have had such greatly increased sums of money expended on them in the last few years are guilty of that. Like many Government departments and perhaps even private enterprises, universities sometimes find themselves at the end of a financial year in receipt of certain moneys which need to be spent. They face the problem of having an incentive to increase their estimates of expenditure for the next year; otherwise it looks as though they are standing still or stagnating. When that is done across the board on a sort of interdepartmental competitive basis, departments and other bodies can in fact spend more money than they actually need. I think that is probably less evident in the field of primary and secondary education. But at the same time I know of a few examples where schools have equipment which they do not use. 1 think it probably more particularly relates to the science field where schools have duplicate projectors or duplicate machines that shake soil or do something else. But the fact is that efficiency is not exactly a key word in education and there could be greater examination in detail - that would mean, of course, at the State level and even at the institutional level - as to how the money which is increasingly being made available might be spent. 
In the short time that is left to me in this debate ! want to take up one or two other points. First and foremost I think is the question that the States have a clear responsibility to order their priorities in this matter and to put education in the context of all expenditure in that State as they see it. It has been and probably will continue to be for some considerable time, under whatever government, essentially a State responsibility to structure the system, to decide how many years teachers shall be (rained and to organise a system so that those things can be carried out in the best possible way. It will be up to the States essentially to see whether or not vast inadequacies exist or whether they can manage to reduce some of the more glaring of those. By doing that I do not think that the State-Federal problem in this sphere will be, perhaps at any time, totally solved. But nevertheless we have to leave for the time being judgments on those matters, whether it be quantity or quality, bricks and mortar or teachers and students, to the State departments. In that sense they must  be pushing as hard as they can conceivably push to do the best they can with the unspecific grants as distinct from these special area grants, whether they be for libraries, laboratories or what have you in this sphere of education. 
One of the most important things to me in the area of educational advance of recent years has been the increase in scholarships. The estimate of Commonwealth expenditure for this year is $37m. 
The figure for last year was S32m and it was $24m in 1966-67. There has been a considerable increase in the number of scholarships. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard 2 tables which are from the bulletin I mentioned before. These tables give some details of the development of scholarships over the last few years and I think that this is  entirely  complementary to what I am trying to say. 

<graphic href="069131197009243_40_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="069131197009243_41_6.jpg"></graphic>

The Commonwealth, while it would do well to take heed of one or two of the points made by the honourable member for Fremantle, is not in such a parlous position as far as its education policy is concerned. 
Time is short so I shall attempt to be brief. I would just like to point out that from World War II until 1968-69 the net migration gain in Australia exceded 1 per cent of the national population in only 7 years. The last of those years was 1968-69, and that was the first increase of 1 per cent or more of the national population since 1954-55. Only in 1949-50 did the net intake of immigrants to this country exceed 2 per cent of the national population. In that year the net absolute acquisition was about 161,000. Only in 3 adjacent years and in 2 more recently has the figure of 100,000 been exceeded. If the long-standing, theoretical aim of a 1 per cent net population gain of migrants intake is to be achieved in the 1970s the gross arrival figures will need to rise above 200,000 almost immediately. 
Further, if the more usual achievement of 0.8 per cent of the national population is the aim then the figure of 180,000 by about 1972-73 should suffice. We are beyond that figure already. The current year's predictions are around the 185,000 mark. So there is no question of our not achieving the practical as distinct from the original theoretical aim of migrant intake to Australia. If that sounds a lot, may I very briefly make a reference to the sort of migration which has gone on around the world in modern history and with which we might compare ourselves, as too often we fail to do? Between 1820 and 1930 some 65 million people emigrated from Europe, mostly to the Americas. They now account for well over 200 million of European stock in the Americas, Africa and Australasia. Sixteen million people migrated from the British Isles alone in the period 1846 to 1932. In Ireland the potato famine of 1845 reduced the population of 8,500,000, through death and through emigration, by 23 per cent by 1851, 6 years later. In other parts of the world we find, for example, that after the formation of Israel in 1948 the immigration intake reached 239,000 per annum in 1949 on a base population of only 800,000. The total population of that country more than doubled between 1948 and 1953. 
So it is perfectly clear that although we congratulate ourselves very thoroughly on the success of our migration programme we have not been faced with taking in the numbers of people that other parts of the world have had to face within the last century or two. So we should be able to maintain this proposition for as long as we reasonably want. However, attention has already been drawn to the fact that immigration in Australia appears to be at the crossroads. If this is so, it reminds me somewhat of the man who was linguistically at the crossroads in an East German hotel where he made a valiant attempt to write in English a sign which said: 'Do not enter the lift backwards and only when lit up'. 1 do not agree with the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  that there is a general consensus that migration is at the crossroads. At the same time 1 suggest that it may well be so, because any programme of any kind which has been in operation for 10 or 20 years or more is due for reassessment and investigation. If I may say so without undue congratulation, I think our Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  is characteristically attuned to the tempo of the times in that he has inaugurated or is inaugurating a fairly wide ranging series of investigations to which the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar),  amongst others, previously drew attention. I will not in the limited time available to me dilate upon them in detail. I would, however, like to draw attention to one or two aspects of migration apart from those which very clearly are on the credit side. We have been told, for example, that on a reasonable estimate the average migrant coming to this country is worth about $10,000 in social Costs introduced here - that is to say, all the education and other matters which have been put into that body before he got here. This is indeed a very great consideration quite apart from his forming a factor in the work force and in growth. 
There is one small problem in a country which by Government policy and by Opposition inclination and otherwise says that it is to some extent interested in decentralisation, and that is that the migrants by and large, despite the good work they do in some areas of agriculture and in some areas of the country, are concentrated in our urban areas. So migration cannot be said to be a solution to the problem, if it is such, of decentralisation. We find, for example, that in my City of Hobart approximately 11 per cent - a relatively low level - of the population are migrants, roughly half British and half other. I am not sure of the exact figures but I think that about 22 per cent of the population of Melbourne would be similarly placed. I think it runs as high as 25 per cent or 27 per cent in one or two industrialised centres such as Wollongong, and I think it rises as high as 30 per cent in Canberra. We get quite a range of migrant proportions - from the order of 10 per cent to maybe 30 per cent - in our large cities. 
This leaves us with a very big problem which is already being faced by the Minister and his Department, and this will be the subject of debate in this place at a later stage, A Bill has already been introduced concerning migrant education. The particular relevance of that is that about one-quarter of the 3.1 million people gross who arrived in this country from overseas between 1945 and 1969 have been under the age of 15 years and therefore, quite obviously, in need of considerable education. The problem as we face it will be considerably reduced as time progresses by the greater selectivity of migrants. This seems to be, from all reports, something which the Department of Immigration is pursuing consistently. It will, I presume, tend to obviate some of the difficulties which have arisen in relation to returning migrants, although the studies that have been done on returning migrants, inadequate though they might be in number, suggest that the problems involved and the reasons for return are not nearly as black or as bad as is often painted publicly. But necessarily, with increasing selectivity of migrants, some of these problems will be solved. 
Finally, because I have to allow other members to make a short speech in this debate, I suggest that the problem of the crossroads position of the immigration programme as it is seen by some is near enough to being real. If we increase our selectivity and accent the possibility of integration, which I think is now the new word rather than 'assimilation', of migrants with the Australia community as we now find it, we will find that those crossroads can be suitably passed and not necessarily in only one direction. At the same time, lest we tear ourselves apart by going off in two opposite directions at once, it seems that we will have to get to grips with this situation of decentralisation and increasing urbanisation, without undue dramatisation and where the migrant population, increasing or decreasing, fits into that pattern. 
I must, of necessity, speak against the amendment; but in particular I want to speak to the estimates for the Department of National Development. It seems to me that the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  does exactly what he says he is not trying to do. He says that he wishes not to maximise pessimism on this matter. I believe that it is entirely proper for a member of the Opposition - in fact, for the Opposition as a whole - to adopt something of the kind of attitude the honourable member for Lang has adopted; but I really believe that he thumps the barrel a little too hard. 
After all, as I recollect, the Calder Hall atomic power station in Cumberland in the United Kingdom was developed in 1956 and investigations went on for a long time before that. For decades Britain has been aware of the environmental and safety factors and such things as those. In fact, we now have something over 40 such stations in the world - I do not know the current figure - producing significant proportions of power in the United States and the United Kingdom. The honourable member for Lang, up to a point, is crying wolf in the sense that he thinks we will run into all sorts of new problems of safety, environmental and other kinds. I believe that it is entirely proper that he should ask a few questions and perhaps want further investigation of matters of which he is aware. But frankly I believe that it is a little beside the point to be worrying, as though the sole consideration is the economy of the operation, about the cost of power from this station. 
After all, a blind man could see that the first nuclear power station in this country would not be set up for the prime purpose of producing the cheapest power of all time. It has many greater implications than that. Despite the models elsewhere, in a sense it will be a pilot for such a development in Australia. As the honourable member has already shown us, that development is coming a considerable length of time after developments of a similar kind elsewhere. So, I really believe that, to some extent, he is maximising his pessimism, however justified some of the queries may be. In any case, I wish to leave the rest of that for the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who is at the table, because he is more knowledgeable about this matter of our nuclear development than I am. 1 wish to talk a little more broadly about some aspects of national development as they concern these estimates for this year. I think it was back in the early 1950s that Salvador de Madariaga, an eminent Spaniard, visited this country and wrote a number of articles for the 'Sydney Morning Herald', as I recall. Coming from the peasant environment, generally speaking, of Spain at that time, he projected, among other things, a population of about 100 million people for Australia. At the time I and some of my fellow students had cause to consider this sort of prediction and to work out our fairly untrained minds at that stage on that sort of proposition. It was perfectly clear to us that we would only have a population of 100 million in this country by any form of national development if we were of the mind to lower the standard of living by some considerable number of degrees below what was then operating. In a sense that proposition was rejected by all those who thought they were in the know about propositions of that kind. 
However, things have moved a long way since then. The sort of figure we might have put a finger on and which Griffith Taylor put a finger on way back was around about 20 million or 30 million people as the absolute population possibility in Australia in the foreseeable future. This would appear to be considerably extended now, particularly so in the light of at least a couple of factors. Our capacity to deal with 1950 assessments has been extended considerably owing to our firstly having passed some threshold of industrialisation. Before the last World War this country could hardly be said to be an industrial power of any description. Now we seem to have passed that threshold to the extent that our industrial manufacturing output surpasses that of our primary industry. Secondly, primary industry - not in the usual sense of the term - in the form of the extractive mining industry has probably been the greatest single boost in recent years to our national capacity to develop and maintain a greater population. 
While this is so it raises, to me at least, a number of other problems. Not the least of these is the question of decentralisation, which tends to come up every now and again in a number of matters in this chamber. I wonder just how far we are going to be able to go along that way. Perhaps the greatest single possibility for increased decentralisation of any significant order in Australia in the coming years will lie in the immediate field of mineral development. We could range for a long time if we had it in that sort of field. Figures for the whole field are readily available in various statistical publications. I do not have them here and I do not need them. 
Let us take one instance, for example, an investment of about $ 1,500m in the aluminium industry which is of very recent vintage. If I remember rightly, about $800m of that is invested at Weipa alone. We know that the discoveries and developments date from, at the earliest, 1955. With the beginning of the Weipa development we have more or less triggered overseas interest in a renewed mining operation in Australia to the extent that we now have a mineral industry almost second to none and certainly with the sort of capacity and resource potential that was undreamt of even as late as the early 1950s and of a kind comparable with that in the United States some decades ago when the Lake Superior iron ores were being developed. 
We have here a very considerable economic problem, whichever way one looks at it and from whatever point of ideology. It is a pure economic problem in the first instance. To put it very briefly, almost all the forces of economy and economics these days operate in the direction of agglomeration. Although in the past we have had iron and steel industries based on raw materials, that is no longer the case. I will not go into any further detail than that. The tendency now is that even iron and steel industries are based on a market situation, to be market oriented rather than raw material oriented. This more or less takes place in respect of all commercial and industrial areas, if I may generalise rather widely. That means that the forces of agglomeration - the attractions of the market, of the labour force operating the industry, and of the linkages between industries and various component manufacturers - operate in the direction of the big centres such as Sydney and Melbourne, notably, in Australia. 
One shining light which seems to be the possibility for breaking down that natural economic inclination would appear to be the mining industry and the increased mining capacity in the sense - we have some indication of it already - that townships with populations of 10,000 or maybe even 20,000 may be able to proliferate up to the point of some dozens or even scores throughout the 3 million square miles that we possess. If in fact they turn themselves into growth points for other industries, even rural industries, in the environs of those growth points we may have the one real means for decentralisation of a significant order to attract population away from the otherwise overwhelmingly attractive urban agglomerations, despite the fact that they do have some drawbacks. I did hear of an American industrial geographer of some standing, who visited here recently, who was of the opinion - it is only one opinion but I think it is indicative - that it will be a long time yet before 
Sydney and Melbourne, and certainly our smaller centres, begin to experience the diseconomies of scale, of congestion and of traffic problems and that sort of thing which will cause any significant decentralisation of industry in a natural sort of way. 
As I think 1 mentioned in another context not long ago, the recently published New South Wales study on decentralisation would indicate that the economic forces militating against decentralisation of industries are not quite as real as they are often thought to be. In fact, social factors, factors of the mind, tend to operate more strongly at times than do the sheerly economic factors. In other words some people could move out to rural locations, roughly, if they had a mind to, and diseconomies like distance, higher freight rates or the freight rate component in location analyses, may not be as difficult to overcome, in some cases at least, as is. generally thought. So there may be hope, if we couple these various factors, in terms of moving some of the population to centres other than our main cities. 
This leads me to one other question. 1 may run into considerable danger of playing into the hands of honourable members on the Opposition side. I refer to the question of national priorities. I may be wrong but as I understand it most of our developmental priorities stem from the States. That is to say, the States have in mind certain things that they want, certain structures that they wish put up. The proposals are put to the Commonwealth and the Commonwealth accepts them at a certain time, rejects them, or accepts them at a later time. In fact .that is bow we find power stations and mining enterprises, partially or otherwise involving Government, developing from time to time and from place to place. That seems to me to be. up to a point, a sensible means of operation. 
However there comes a time when one has to look at the comparative advantages of certain propositions - to wonder whether or not we should have a list of national priorities - to the extent that the propositions of the States at least might be questioned. Whether they themselves have projects in the right order would remain to be seen. But the national view might well be one which, at least from the point of view of this Government - and without necessarily endangering the independence or autonomy of the States - would at least subject them to a comparatively critical analysis in terms of what the States put forward. While saying that I also have to say that this is the sort of area where State pleas are often very common. Looking at the. debates on this matter in the last year I found, for example, that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  told us of the untold misery of the Queenslanders who had been short changed by the Commonwealth. That is a pretty old story, one way or another, and although 1 think he would find it difficult to sustain that story this year, doubtless other people can produce the same results. 
Although I dislike the idea myself, 1 must for once do a little special pleading and, in the context which I hope I have already established, I must mention the situation in Tasmania where, quite markedly and by many forms of measure, such as the average income, it is possible to see that Tasmania's limitation of size puts it in decidedly a peculiar position vis a vis the other States. This is the sort of point which perhaps sometimes is made to excess. In the case of Tasmania it is made very thoroughly in relation to freight rates and that sort of thing but that makes it nonetheless real. I would argue that when it is a question of looking at priorities, it would be not unduly special pleading or at least not unduly improper to suggest that a sympathetic reception should be given to any reasonable proposition put up from that sort of quarter. The forces of agglomeration, as I mentioned earlier, are such that they are undoubtedly operating in greater measure in smaller entities than in larger ones. 
In fact a number of studies that have been made, one or two by myself, indicate that if we look across the employment board we will find, let us say, in a hundred or so employment categories, a national average type employment in, say New South Wales. If we look at Tasmania we will find that in fourteen or fifteen of those hundred or more employment categories there is national average employment and that all others are below. In other words, there is a much greater variety and diversity of standard or above standard operation in the industrial sphere in all employment spheres in larger entities such as New South 
Wales and Victoria and a much smaller diversity, a much greater concentration in a few fields and therefore, of course, a greater danger of an economic eggs in one basket situation in a smaller entity. 
Finally I would like to make the point that in this question of national priorities or otherwise in the whole area of national development it is hard to see that anything is more important than the relative distribution of population in relation to industries, and therefore the question of urbanisation versus decentralisation raises itself constantly. Whether it is the function of the Commonwealth to take positive steps to redress any imbalance or to perpetuate lines of operation is another question or is the same question but another part of the same question to be answered. I would rather at this stage leave it to the Minister and the Government at large ultimately to answer that. But I think in terms of what we have seen .so far, insofar as I understand it, the situation has been one in which the States ;ask for assistance and it is given in. varying ways. I think perhaps the time has come- so frequently we find the. Federal-State: situation raising itself - when we might- consider ourselves as a national entity. 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Labour :ind National Service is supplementary to a question asked by the honourable member for Ballaarat a week or so ago concerning pressures on workers to join trade unions even though they might have conscientious objection. Since such pressures originate from essentially the same political area as that which protests vociferously, publicly and often against compulsory national service- 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry whether his attention has been drawn to the recent commercial development of a nylon-type substance known as aromatic polyamide. Its greatest value is that it can resist temperatures of the order of 1,200 degrees centigrade. Will the right honourable gentleman investigate the possibility of introducing or producing this material within Australia for use inside aircraft, for pilots' uniforms and in industry in relation to furnaces  and that sort of  thing? As this material is in distinct competition with wool which is largely used in those areas will the Minister look at the possibility of finding a manner in which wool may be treated to give it the same sort of qualities? 
Has the Prime Minister seen the characteristically lucid review by Geoffrey Sawer in Saturday's 'Canberra Times' of a book by Ken Buckley entitled Offensive and Obscene'? In view of the expressed interest of many members of this House in civil liberties, Australian case studies of which are the subject of the book, and in view of the- 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The bumble petition of the undersigned citizens of Denison respectfully sheweth: 
That they arc not gravely concerned that moral standards in the Australian community may be changing, particularly in regard to the community's willingness to treat adults within it as reasonable and responsible people who are capable of making up their own minds as to what may be perfectly acceptable or unacceptable material in books, magazines, plays, films and television and radio programmes, and particularly when this material depicts life in human society, including language habits and sex habits and gives warning of the dangers of the use of violence and narcotic drugs; 
That they in fact welcome this change, having regard for the fact that it demonstrates an increasing tolerance of and respect for the rights of individuals to think their own way through their own lives, free from informationwithholding restrictions which people of one religion or one standard of morals may seek to impose on either the majority or minority who do not hold the same views; 
That they question the simplistic view that nations 'perish' because of a so-called 'internal moral decay' unless such 'decay' is taken to include an increasing unwillingness to face the facts of life in open discussion and freedom of thought; 
That they welcome the statement by the Honourable the Minister for Customs and Excise,  Mr Chipp,  that the concept of censorship is abhorrent to all men and women who believe in the basic freedoms and that, as a philosophy, it is evil and ought to be condemned - 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to give the maximum freedom to adults to choose what they will watch, read and listen to, even in the face of pressure from those who seek to impose their ideas and morals on others who do not share them. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question to the Minister for Education and Science is supplementary to that asked a few days ago by the honourable member for Wilmot concerning the apparent shortage of places in the Univerity of Tasmania for second year medical students in 1971. Is the Minister aware that the reported shortfall of 32 second year places assumes no failures among the present first yeal students? Is it likely that the shortage will be appreciably less than the number stated? Is it true that the students were individually informed on enrolment of the likelihood that insufficient places would be available? Will the Minister nevertheless take what steps he can to remove the cause of concern? 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, 3.2 per cent of the total funds provided under Appropriation Bill (No. 1) are earmarked for this field of operation. If we have regard to Appropriation Bill (No. 2) we see that 3.5 per cent is involved, so it would not appear to be one of the greatest areas of expenditure in our total budgetary situation. Nevertheless wo should bear in mind that a great deal more of the gross national product is spent in this field than would appear from those small percentages because when we add automobiles and private expenditure in that area we have, in fact, a very much more substantial portion of our total national expenditure. 
Transport is one of the more important instruments or tools of government policy, or at least it could be. One of the most rapidly developing facets of modern economy has been the field of transport. It is one without which production cannot be reasonably distributed either within an area, a region, a country or between countries. 
In Australia, on the whole, transport has followed settlement and the establishment of economic activity patterns. Roads and railways have been built to upgrade the use of established rural economies. Urban transport has grown up to serve existing residential subdivisions and their associated commercial and industrial areas. It is possible to promote or impede rural industries, selectively as to type or area, by expenditure on transport links - for example, beef roads in the Northern Territory. But, perhaps more importantly, it is possible to influence the form and direction of urban growth through transport policy. There are many alternatives to identifying traffic jams and joining them with free" ways. I believe there is an imperative case for thorough prediction of the effects of transport route construction in urban areas - not least because traffic generates almost immediately to fill the routeway capacity provided. Every honourable member will be aware of that. 1 turn from that more general area, which 1 believe is as important as 1 said it is, to the question of the effect of this budgetary area on Tasmania. We have already heard something this afternoon from my great humanitarian friends opposite and it would be unfortunate if overstatement in this field were allowed to blur the very real case that can be made for Tasmania's special consideration in the field of shipping and transport. As 1 understand it there are two major principles of freight rating. One is that known as the cost of the service and the second is what the traffic will bear. There is a very widespread suspicion in Tasmania that the latter principle is used to the detriment of Tasmania by the Australian National Line to offset losses elsewhere. The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie),  who preceded me, has made just such a statement, and I think it is true to say that it is, in fact, a widely held view. At the same time it should be said that the  Chairman  of the Australian National Line, in his recently published report, indicated that he is very much aware of the standing of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission in this field. He states, on page 6 of his report, that the policy of holding down freight rates at an uneconomic level has resulted in the Austraiian Coastal Shipping Commission, for the first time in history, incurring a loss. So, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  took note, he is aware of the problem. But the problem is not entirely his. He states further that the sea freight across Bass Strait, after allowing for the  12)  per cent increase which has been referred to already, is still lower than it was 13 years ago. That is something which is happily forgotten as a rule by the critics of the increase and it is a pity because, as T suggested earlier, I believe this is an unbalanced view of the situation and tends to work against sympathy for a just cause. Nevertheless one must say, whether justified or not, and whether the timing was justified or not, that freight rises of this kind are quite obviously imposing a burden on the recipients. 
The  Chairman  of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission is also aware of the subsidy argument and he says, quite bluntly, that the matter of subsidies is one for government. The duty of the Commission, as he sees it, is to charge the lowest freight rates consistent with making a reasonable return on its capital. That would appear to be in line with generally recognised business procedure. 
Nevertheless Tasmania, as an island State, as has again been readily discerned - it is self-evident that any island community which is not totally self-sufficient or introverted has to do this - must rely heavily on its lines of communication. As the connections interstate for all bulk goods, and many others for that matter, can be by ship only, there is a case to be made out - I believe I should make it - for ensuring consistency of service comparable with the sort of consistency which can be afforded by road and rail in the mainland States. If it is the only answer to this problem of operation along profitable lines  -  I do not mean in the sense of making great profits but in a going concern sense - it seems to me that the question of subsidy must be seriously considered. This is a matter on which 1 have spoken to the Minister for Shipping and Transport privately, and I would like now more publicly to suggest that that matter is worthy of further consideration. It is a fairly direct comparison with, say, the provision of $50m worth of Commonwealth involvement in the Mount Isa railway, if I remember my figure right, to give one example of many which could be used. 
We have of course hope in Tasmania that the variations in the pattern of development of container shipping may produce something of considerable consequence for the island. That is to say, if a deep water port in the estuary of the Huon River were able to be used as a major container port for distribution therefrom to other ports in Australia, it would be a very great boon indeed. Many years ago it was thought that the deep water ports, the drowned estuaries, of southern Tasmania, notably at that time Hobart, might come into vogue for that sort of reason. The recent developments in the container shipping area tend to suggest otherwise, that the big volume ports such as Sydney and Melbourne, and perhaps over in the west because of its greater distance away, may be favoured as distribution points for the whole country for container shipping. I suggest that the possibility of the Huon area or perhaps Hobart being a distribution point is one very great consequence for reasons of industrial possibilities, apart from the transport matter itself, as far as Tasmania as a whole is concerned. 
I might, nearly in conclusion, just mention a fairly recent independent comment that was made in relation to Tasmanian shipping traffic. Tasmanian traffic has of course a very important place in the activities of the Port of Melbourne. It easily leads in the carriage of exports from the Port of Melbourne and it is second only to the bulk traffic of New South Wales in Melbourne's imports. The composition of Tasmania's goods exchange with Melbourne has been described as reflecting 'the influence of its insular position and especially the absence of rail and road com.petion for water borne traffic which has drastically reduced coastwise general cargo movements between Melbourne and the major ports of the mainland'. 
Whilst that statement is a few years old, I would draw it to the Minister's attention. That is to say, while I am talking mainly from the point of view of Tasmania's benefit or otherwise in this matter, I point out that the shipping traffic provided by Tasmania is a very important facet of the total coastwise shipping operations in Australia, and not only is the health of Tasmania involved but the health of economic activity in the Port of Melbourne is involved, and its hinterland of Victoria is consequently affected. There are other factors involved. The possibility of rationalisation among Tasmanian ports is something which should be considered to show responsibility, as it were, at both ends. I finally underline my plea for consideration of a just cause which I do not believe should be denied through over-statement in other quarters. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question to the Prime Minister is supplementary to the questions asked by the Leader of the Opposition last week in which he attributted the bomb attack on the Yugoslav consulate in Melbourne to terrorist elements from Croatia or from other parts of Yugoslavia. Is the Prime Minister aware that such actions are avowedly not the policy of the Croatian Liberation Movement in Australia? Does he know that the members of that organisation subscribe to peaceful protests in this democratic society and would regard the destruction of buildings as a weak form of terrorism if that were their policy? Will he examine the leading Communist newspapers of Australia to find whether they have, over the past few months, set the stage for such an action as that which occurred in Melbourne? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I speak briefly to this motion? The building in question is in my electorate, and 1 should like to say a few words about it. This building is much needed for the consolidation of Government offices in Hobart. That of course has been recognised by the Public Works Committee. The building will stand on a site which is little more than a block from the centre of the business area of the city of Hobart, lt is in the centre of my electorate. In having to build on this site the Public Works Committee, and the Commonwealth thereby, has run into the problem which recurs in city areas - that of having to demolish standing buildings. In this particular case there have had to be demolished, amongst other things, 2 old stone Georgian cottages, one of which was occupied by one of my constituents, a  Mr Bullimore,  who had a long standing discussion with the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon),  and finally was able to achieve suitable compensation for the loss of his building and site. 
This is a convenient site. But it raises the problem of city renewal and development in the manner which I have just mentioned and the problem of construction as against conservation. The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  in speaking to the motion made the point that car parking facilities are being considered, and 1 should like to reinforce that point, because it appears to me, on the face of it, that the facilities will certainly be no more than adequate. I am not one of those who believe in giving over city centres totally to the motor car, but this is a case in point in a small city. If we are going to abide by current practice, we need to make sure that adequate provision for parking is made within the building site itself, or if we are going to get on to some new policy in urban development, we can think about not having any provision at all for parking, or very little. 
Finally, I notice that there Ls to be expenditure on a work of art to the extent of some $3,000. The Committee, in its report, mentioned that this amount already has been reduced from $20,000. Might I suggest that as the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  and the honourable member for Denison fondly hope to be occupants of this building, it may be possible to combine the well known artistic temperament of the honourable member for Franklin with the rugged good looks of the honourable member for Denison under the relevant classification of native works of art, thereby to save the residual  $3,000. 
I doubt whether I have ever less needed a vote in favour of being heard. However, because of the late hour, I shall try intelligibly to confine my remarks to the States Grants (Special Assistance) Bill 1970 insofar as it concerns Tasmania. The moneys involved are an advance grant of $22m and a completion grant of SI. 68m, making a total of $23.68m, from which $10m has been deducted because of moneys which were advanced previously to the State under a financial assistance grant. The purpose of this grant, as has already been put forward, is to supplement the basic Commonwealth financial assistance grants. If we look at table 6 at page 27 of the Commonwealth Grants Commission report we will see that the proportional increases on the base grant for Tasmania' have not been particularly noticeable in recent years. In the 1969-70 proposals as against 1968-69 the increase for Tasmania was 11 per cent compared with 12.1 per cent for New South Wales, 13.1 per cent for Queensland and so on. The 1970-71 -proposals as against 1969-70 give Tasmania an increase of 12.7 per cent compared with 16 per cent in New South Wales, 14.7 per cent in Queensland and so on in the other States, most of which are somewhat higher. 
The basic purpose of this special assistance has been described at the Commission's Hobart hearing as follows: 
Basically, the payment of a Special Grant is to relieve a problem in government. It represents a redistribution of the total financial resources of all Governments to enable the Government of a small State to function at a level comparable to the Governments of its larger and wealthier neighbours. 
We might well substitute the word 'economy' for the word 'government' but I suppose that the problem can be seen as being one and the same. It is seen perhaps a little differently by the Grants Commission itself when it uses these words: 
Tasmania's share of general revenue grants, exclusive of the special grant, represents a much larger amount per head of population than the amounts received by New South Wales and Victoria, and thus may be regarded as meeting in part the additional financial need of Tasmania as compared with the standard States. The special grant recommended by the Commission represents its assessment of the remainder of this additional financial need, and by implication it also represents the Commission's assessment of the total of general revenue grants to Tasmania needed to bring that State up to approximate fiscal parity with the average of the standard States. 
It is of some consequence that in the last year or so the budgetary situation in Tasmania under the new Liberal Government, in slight coalition with the Centre Party, has been considerably changed. In 1968-69 Tasmania had a Budget deficit of $3. 7m. In 1969-70 that deficit was converted to a plus of $2.8m making an overall change of $6.5m, which is a very considerable increase. 1 think it would be less than just of me not to mention in this regard the considerable abilities displayed by the new Premier,  Mr Angus  Bethune. I have not always seen eye to eye with  Mr Bethune  on political matters and  i  have sometimes perhaps regarded him as a slightly conservative politician, but I have reason to believe that if his taking the premiership would have prevented the accession of Liberal Party government after 35 years of tired Labor incumbency he would not have taken the premiership for himself. There are perhaps few politicans in this country who would set aside a long standing goal like that, as 1 believe he would have done. It happens that  Mr Bethune  and his Government regard these grants as too small and it is a very difficult situation to substantiate, but I think that one should make a case in that direction and that such a case is justified. The essential problem is one of scale. Tasmania, as with the smaller partner in any enterprise lacks the flexibility and bargaining power of its larger relations - most notably, of course, New South Wales and Victoria - in economic matters. 
Although the Stale is afforded certain constitutional provisions of protection which we know of in this place, it is in fact the securing of external investment which is a problem. This is a problem of attraction and not of compulsion in any sense. There is then at once the need where large industrial output, for example, is contemplated to offset a small local market by compensating factors. In Tasmania hydroelectric power most notably primarily filled that role in the half century following the First World War. But that is not the whole of the problem. In fact it comes down in terms of this problem of scale to the question of whether or not the Commonwealth Grants Commission, and thereby the Federal Government, making sufficient appreciation of the size problem, that is to say, a problem in which the sufferer has an inability to take advantage of the economies of scale and the diversities of opportunity which are present in larger entities. 
Essentially, this can be seen as a population problem. If in fact we look at some of the many tables appended and otherwise in the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission we find that the Tasmanian population has at best maintained itself, or almost so, over recent years. In fact, this would be the case over this century whereas the populations of some of the larger States have gradually crept up. The basis of this problem involves the population structure. Tasmania has a relatively youthful population. In other words, compared with most other States Tasmania has a considerable population in the youthful age categories. Tasmania has been of assistance to the population growth of Australia because for many years there has been a net outwards migration. Therefore, these young people are in fact helping to build the national population to a considerable extent. But what this leaves is a greater burden of nonearning population in the total population structure. For instance, by the 1966 census the proportion of adult aged people in Tasmania was around 56.6 per cent while that for Australia generally was 60 per cent. So although reproductivity of Tasmania is high it has fallen somewhat during the mid-1960's but it is high relative to the rest of Australia. The fact is that the high rate of increase through the 1950's continues to exert sufficient influence to maintain a general youthful population in Tasmania. 
If we look at the basis of this population situation, we find that the population is distributed through the work force in a not particularly typical way for the country as a whole. We find that there is a localisation of economic activity in particular areas and again this is the wont of small entities compared with larger ones. We can take particular industries and find that they are heavily represented. We can take many others and find they are unrepresented according to some basic criteria such as a national average in relation to the total available work force. This could be shown at some length if time were available. (Quorum formed.) 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
This is not a matter, I think, involving a very considerable depth of policy. At the same time, it opens up the field, insofar as we want to do so, of this whole new area of education in colleges of advanced education. Properly enough, the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  has drawn attention to and has foreshadowed that he will move amendments on some of the provisions for the Canberra College of Advanced Education, as shown in the Bill. I am not sure that the status of a college such as this is greatly enhanced by varying, to any great degree, the number of people who are appointed to the Council. I think rather that the status of these institutions is to be gained from their products, and their products will be of first quality only if in fact their courses and their staffs are of first quality. Nevertheless, one could hardly regard as reprehensible the suggestion or proposition of the honourable member for Fremantle that certain additions be made to the Council of the Canberra College of Advanced Education, notably, of course, because that would include members of this place and of the chamber not far distant from here. 
However, having had at least a short experience on the council of 1 university in this country and having been involved more thoroughly in a process similar to that in which the College of Advanced Education in Canberra is involved, or for that matter, in which similar institutions elsewhere are involved, I believe that the less government intervention there is directly in the affairs of such bodies, the better. This could be misinterpreted, and I would not want that. But I notice that already there is provision on the Council of the College of Advanced Education in Canberra for persons, not exceeding eight in number, appointed by the GovernorGeneral. Presumably they will have some sort of governmental influence behind them. So while, on the face of it, the suggestion that 2 senators and 2 members of this House should be appointed as members of the Council is a good and proper one, I would tread warily in that direction and try to hold that sort of thing to an absolute minimum, as in fact is apparent from the presently proposed constitution of the Council. 
Given, as I think it must be, that the lay members of the hierarchy of such a council or such a governing body will be people of intelligence and good standing in the community, whoever they are, it seems to me that the more important area is the staff representation on the governing body, because the staff members are the people most directly and most constantly concerned. In fact, usually by contract for the whole of their lives they are engaged in the institution in which they are employed. They are the people who are most likely to direct into the proper channels what the institution is doing, whatever we may think of the public utterances of some of their number. As a body they will be the ones most directly involved in what the institution is doing. So I think it is more important that the staff representation should be increased from 2 to 3 and that the student representation should be provided for at the number of two. 
This, of course, opens up a very big field. It varies right across the board internationally amongst institutions of this kind. I think that the most unhierarchical, as it were, representation of any such institution of which I am aware is perhaps that of the University of Sussex where, if I remember rightly, the statute provides that not more than one-third of the governing body shall be of the professoriate or above - if there is an 'above'. In other words, they shall be members of the teaching staff and people of that order, of sub-professorial rank. It takes a lot of cognisance of the per capita involvement of any member of the staff of such an institution - whether it be a professor, a vice-chancellor or anybody else - in its affairs generally. That is a very extensive and perhaps quite atypical provision. But, nevertheless, if we look at the universities, colleges and tertiary institutions in the United Kingdom we find a great deal more liberality in that direction titan is usually found in Australia; than in fact is probably characteristic of any of our Australian institutions. Nevertheless, the point is that provision is being made. 
Recently mention has been made also of student representation at the Australian National University, which is not totally irrelevant to the matter in hand. It seems to me that one can take two points of view on this. One is that you can have any number - reasonably demanded - of students on a governing body, and in a sort of political sense you can say: 'Okay, the students are represented.' The second is that you should be concerned that the students' point of view is made known on the council. That, to me, can be done by one person - the  president  of the students representative council or whatever the equivalent may be. Perhaps you might like to shore him up to some extent and have a second representative. But beyond that, I believe that unless the intention is to get a voting bloc on the governing body, the purpose of the exercise is served; that is to say, the students' view will be known to be represented on the governing body, and people out of touch with student thought and student needs will not be capable of making decisions without knowing what this great body of people, for which the institution is run, are thinking. That can be done quite adequately by one or two student leaders, and not necessarily by eight or nine or so many others. 
That, of course, also involves the question of the lowering of the age of possible representatives from 21 years to 18 years. I do not propose to spend any time on that. My personal inclination would be that the longer they have been around the more they are likely to know. But having the age of 21 years may well exclude some very useful and some very community oriented and institutional oriented students of less than that age. So I think that on the whole the provision for lowering the age from 21 years to 18 years is a proper one. This brings me to the other main provision of this Bill, and that is the question of degree powers. It bears on the matter which I took up from the honourable member for Fremantle at the beginning of my speech on this matter. As with status,  I  believe that this is an area which will be shown to be right and proper by its product, by what it turns out, rather than by  a  provision put down in black and white on a piece of paper. The fact that somebody gets  a  degree or gets  a  qualification which is called a degree is not the problem or is not the proof. What you have to do is to ensure that the degree or the diploma or whatever the exercise turns out to provide will stand up with comparable qualifications in any other part of the country and, perhaps preferably, in any part of the world. Therefore if we say this institution may now have the power of conferring degrees it means not one whit or one jot if in fact the degree is not worth anything or at least is not worth what we expect of a normal undergraduate degree. 
So the question then hinges on the comparability of degree giving status which has come in this case from the findings of the Wiltshire Committee and 1 understand the provision is to make the Canberra College of Advanced Education comparable in this way and in this capacity with other colleges which have developed a little later and which have already been given that provision. There is, of course, a little bit of movement in this area in the sense that when provision was first made for these colleges there was not - as in fact the case in point proves - the intention at that time of their granting degrees, so called. I think it would be certainly true that people in universities at the time, if nowhere else, saw that, perhaps with some personal bias, to be the right and proper thing to do and that universities would grant degrees and perhaps other lesser institutions or certainly different institutions in the tertiary sphere would grant diplomas or whatever they might be called. This means to me that if colleges of advanced education are to grant degrees it is absolutely imperative that they be degrees certainly of directly comparable status to those granted by the universities or if not of directly comparable status they shall be seen to be something which is different and shall be said to be something which is different. I have seen this process happen elsewhere. 
I think that perhaps the United States of America affords the best example. I can recall clearly to my mind at the moment only one case. I recall the Illinois State Normal College. The word 'normal' has now gone out of vogue but it was the word applied to a teaching institution. It became by a natural process of evolution, not educationally but by nomenclature, the Illinois State College. Then some years later, lo and behold, the pressure of political events was such that it became the 
Illinois State University. I think 1 am right in saying this. There may have been some other qualifying word and I may be doing some other, institution an injustice, if not that institution. But just by changing the name the institution was apparently upgraded from a teaching college of sorts to a fully fledged university. The educational implications of that are very considerable indeed. As I said earlier you cannot change the capacity or product of an institution merely by changing its name. The important thing is to see that what it provides and what it turns out is commensurate with the name which it is given. So this is the point which I make, and 1 hope forcibly, as far as degree giving powers are concerned. 
The only further comment  I  have is that 1 hope that the conferral of these powers on this college, in keeping wim some of the others, will be followed up by the members of the councils and staffs with as much rigour and as much attention to the educative process and as much professional integrity as I believe in the main, and almost perhaps exclusively, has been carried out among the Australian universities in the now lengthening period of their histories, at least of the older ones but much shorter histories for the younger ones. I do not wish to take up the time of the House much longer on this matter. My points on this matter are: The crucial (bing as far as this Bill is concerned is that degree giving powers should result in degrees worthy of the name, whether they are selectively given as between disciplines or whether they are given in all disciplines and that, I hope, will be seen into with discrimation. Secondly, the representation on the council is, I believe, very important and it should be levelled at the staff representation and to a lesser extent the student representation area, along with the usual sorts of people in relationship to the governing heads or executive type heads of the college. Further to this, the status of such an institution as this may well be upgraded, at least on paper, by the provisions which the honourable member for Fremantle put forward, although I am not convinced on bis proposal that the status of the college would be in any significant way enhanced. It is of course true to say that it would perhaps be given more direct attention and more direct interest would be created in the 2 chambers of this Parliament if they were represented specifically on the council and of course it may also be true that, if there were direct representatives from the community of the Australian Capital Territory as such on that body, again this might be a further advance. But at the same time one would imagine that all those people at present provided for will see themselves as members of the ACT community and there may be a very fine line indeed in deciding who in fact is the more representative type of person coming out of the ACT on to the governing body of the Canberra College of Advanced Education. 
The matter before the House raises a difficult problem, as do many matters in the educational sphere. As the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  opposite and others on this side of the House will be aware, I saw these proposals only at the beginning of this debate. Therefore I have not had the opportunity to consider them deeply. I would not want to be misunderstood in what I have to say in this regard, because I find the interest of the honourable member for Fremantle, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  and any others who share their views entirely admirable, in that they want to take a direct part and participate actively in the processes of some of our leading educational institutions. I think that the honourable member for the Australian Capita) Territory even said that, to his knowledge, honourable members who have sat on the Council of the Australian National University have been enriched by the experience. I have no doubt whatever that this is the case, just as I am sure that I have been enriched by the experience of being in this chamber for a year. As I understand it, universities or colleges of advanced education do not exist primarily to enrich the experience of members of Parliament. They exist for other reasons which I do not need to dilate on at the moment.  1  submit, with all due respect to the honourable members whom I mentioned earlier and to any others who are equally well . intentioned and interested and who no doubt have done a stirling job in the past, that there is no prima facie case to suggest that  2  senators or  2  members of this House will necessarily add anything to the councils of governing bodies of the kind we are discussing than any other interested and experienced lay members of the community. Such members of Parliament may add as much as, and more than, some, but these governing bodies are framed on a basis of educational expertise, leavened by lay experience, good sense and other areas of experience which may be incidental to the argument, to make some kind of balanced plans for the governing of the institutions. I am well aware that it is possible for an institution - a long standing one or a new one such as the Canberra College of Advanced Education -to create an atmosphere, if not of nepotistic flavour then certainly of some kind of incestuous relationship, in the sense that the same people with the same sort of training are teaching themselves and those under their control the same sort of things. So the process goes on. ] believe that the fundamental philosophy of the matter is that councils of governing bodies of this kind have been leavened in their educational experience, such as it is, by the introduction of lay members. 1 adhere to the point I made in my speech on the second reading of this Bill, that there is a provision for 8 people, appointed by the Governor-General, on the Council of the Canberra College of Advanced Education. I would not like to appear to be the greatest fuddy-duddy and reactionary of all time, but quite frankly  1  cannot see that apart from indulging members of Parliament, who may be very well intentioned, very helpful, and any other useful adjective one can think of appropriate to the occasion, the proposal serves any useful purpose. It is not the prime purpose of the institutions to indulge the interests of members of Parliament, however profitable that might be. It seems to me that if there are  20  or so people on such a governing body who are well balanced - at least on paper - and who appear to be capable of offering a balance of governorship, control or whatever you like to call it, for such an institution, then I see not very much point in loading the cart further by adding people specifically from this House. I can say at the same time that I would be most interested to join the honourable member for Fremantle or somebody else on such a body, but that is not to make a case necessarily for the amendment which is before us. 
As far as the Australian National University is concerned, I suppose it is a fair parallel, but if wc take it even as far as it has already been taken we start to query, as I think the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory particularly did and some others touched upon, the function of these institutions and the marginal line as between whether they are basically supposed to be institutions for inquiry or institutions for teaching. Certainly as of this moment the colleges of advanced education are slanted in the direction of teaching the gaining of knowledge, mainly of a practical kind, whereas it is well known, and often said to their detriment in fact, that universities are basically there for gaining knowledge for its own sake and not for direct application. I am well aware that there are faculties such as engineering, medicine and so on, but - and it does not matter whether the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  sniffs or not - the plain fact of the matter is that some of us have done a little thinking about this over the years and it is, as are so many problems on education, totally insoluble in terms of rights or wrongs. That is my point of view. It may vary from that of the honourable member for Fremantle. 
think I. will leave it at that. I hope that I do not do the proposals an injustice, but I believe that as they read they are not essential, however admirable they might be and however much they may cement and integrate a better relationship between a body such as the one under discussion and members of Parliament per se. 1 still believe it is possible for those members of 
Parliament to take just as much interest, or very nearly as much interest, in the general workings of our educational institutions without necessarily being put by Parliament on their governing bodies. If the governing bodies wish to fill vacant places among their number under their control they will sometimes, of course, ask members of the public to fill those places, and I am quite sure that on occasion members of Parliament will be asked to do so. 
I regret again having to be cast in the role, as it were, by force of circumstances of opposing assiduously the remarks of the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy).  I am very sorry that the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  for whose views on these matters I have considerable respect, has taken so severely, as it were, the loss of the previous amendment. I thought I made it perfectly clear that I did not at any stage deny, and in fact I did admire the inclination and capacity of anybody from here or in this case - as we are now talking to a further amendment - members of the Canberra community to be represented on the Council and to take a direct interest in such a body as the Canberra College of Advanced Education. But the fact of the matter is that hard headed educational thinking, insofar as it is possible in the field of education to be hard headed, will not be assisted by the honourable member for Bendigo or anybody else tossing off a string of epithets which include words like bureaucracy', 'democratisation' and so on practically without qualification. lt is very nice to think of the community at large taking unto itself the processes of higher education and having equal participation in them. But that proposition in itself is self-defeating because it is by definition the purpose of such an organisation as the Canberra College of Advanced Education, and then on to universities and the rest, to bring people into them so that they will learn enough about particular disciplines and about the processes of life itself, as it were, to be able to exercise some reasonable control and to voice opinions, with due humility no doubt all the time, on these matters. It is not possible, apart from a known interest which is very nice, to pull someone off the street, as it were, and say: 'You will be able equally to pronounce your views on the council of the college of advanced education' or whatever it might be called. But that is not the case and it does not have to be the case. 
With due respect that the honourable member for Fremantle studiously ignored my proposition that there were 8 persons appointed by the Governor-General and he took to heart the fact that I opposed these other measures and I am now, I think, opposing this one. The fact is that we have people such as  Mrs Crisp  who has already been mentioned. We have an Emeritus Professor but being a professor does not invalidate him in an educational institution. I refer to Emeritus Professor  Sir Leonard  Huxley, who is a very well known, distinguished citizen of this community. They are members of the community. Perhaps they are the sort of people who would be put up by the various delegations that were mentioned if given the opportunity, although I cannot say that this would occur. Also on the Council is  Mr Robert  Broughton Lansdown whose power base, as it were, is the National Capital Development Commission. Another Australian National University professor, Professor Matthews, is a member of the Council. Also, on the Council is  Mr Sandow  who is from Bendigo and who I believe will be on the Council until the end of this year. There is also  Dr Waterhouse  who is the representative from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and who again is well known in that particular sphere. One might argue that these people tend to have somewhat of an educational bias and one might then subscribe to the proposition which I raised earlier - at least an awareness which I wanted to indicate, so that I would not be misunderstood any more than necessary - that it is possible for such institutions to become inbred. But surely if their purpose is education we should be looking for the highest possible educational expertise leavened by some good solid down to earth experience in other fields so that this thing does not run riot. 
I think it would be difficult to show that the 20 or so members of the proposed college council would not fulfil that form of definition. I am totally unimpressed by the way the honourable member for Bendigo tossed great lumpy words at me of a kind I mentioned before and which were supposed to suggest that his case is more profound than mine. But the fact that the Labor Party put up a proposition is not good and sufficient reason for us to take it to heart. Whether or not that is a worthy proposition is totally uninfluenced, as far as I am concerned, by the fact of who put it up. 1 would like to say that this is a worthy proposition. But we are talking about a Council of 20 and not, as I believe, an overloaded council of 43 or thereabouts as is the case with the Australian National University. I think it would be unwise, unless the reasons are totally compelling, to add to that body at this stage any more than is necessary. If I were to be persuaded that the nominees of the GovernorGeneral, for example, or the other 4 nominees of the Council - in all making 12 out of 20 or so of the total - were unrepresentative of the total Canberra community, that they were bad eggs educationally and were otherwise unsuited to the position to which they had been appointed, I would find a great deal more force in the propositions which have been put before us and particularly the proposition concerning the membership of 3 representatives in the community. 
I can only say that I hope I do no-one who is interested in this matter an injus tice. 1 hope that the honourable member for Fremantle and others will ensure that people of sufficient interest and people with a continuing interest in this sort of matter will be accommodated through the force of their representations in the right quarters at the appropriate times when these vacancies arise. I do not believe that I am naive in- the matter; the master spoke earlier and as the new boy I will listen. But the fact of the matter is that there are possibilities for wide representation as was indicated by the present incumbents. If that situation were to worsen [ think there would be more cause to worry about the possibility of unrepresentativeness on this body. 
In characteristic fashion the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  moves From disaster to disaster liberally interspersed with crises and strangulations. I find it hard to believe that the situation is as gloomy as he paints it although 1 have no doubt that there is at least an element of truth in what he says. We well know that education institutions, whether they are new advanced colleges or older institutions at any level, can always use more money. 1 do not want to be seen to suggest thateducation is not in need of more funds. But as the honourable member for Bendigo and others well know, the question is one which has been with us in the field of education since anybody can remember and I would have thought that certainly as far as colleges of advanced education are concerned - and they are our main concern in this Bill - the problem was not one so much  of finance at this stage but of organisation and definition of what their role is and of developing them in an educative sense. 
It alarms me a little to see that the honourable member for Bendigo accepts unequivocally and without qualification, and even without critical analysis, all educational demands which are made known to him or to which he is party. Last of all, if I may say so with respect, it worries me that he takes bis crises from newspaper headlines. 1 think one can say that almost by definition - with very few exceptions -  education is not the sort of field in which crises suddenly occur because of the production of a newspaper headline. There are problems and needs which can be defined as the months go by and they can be dealt with or not dealt with. It may be true that ultimately they develop to a point where you think that the word ''crisis' is deserved, but I think it is deserved very many fewer times than the honourable member for Bendigo and some of his confreres on the other side of the House would like to have us believe. 
May 1 confine my remarks to these cognate Bills? They relate particularly to the development of the colleges of advanced education and to university salaries. As fac as colleges are concerned, and this is a matter we touched on in relation to tha Canberra College before the suspension of the sitting, the problem is one, as I see it, of defining the role of these institutions. lt may be argued, and I am sure the honourable member for Bendigo would argue it if he has not already, that we should know precisely where we are going, exactly how many people are going to be where, and precisely what will happen when they get there. That is a very nice sort of Utopian field to behold, but I rather fear that this is beyond the ability of this or any other government. What we have to look at is whether or not we can keep pace with the genuine demands of qualified people for education in advanced colleges in lieu or instead of universities or other institutions of higher learning. 
As we have already identified in a previous debate, the question seems to me to be that all colleges of advanced education touch on several already established fields. They are taking unto themselves already at least part of the field of teacher training. That, I think, is quite a sensible if not an admirable development. They are touching already on the fields already identified with technical colleges and institutes of technology and . they are in some respects taking from those fields of a more practical kind which were hitherto the occupation, or partly so, of universities. In a previous debate on this subject the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  talked of critical inquiry as regards colleges of advanced education. Nobody would deny the right: or the desirability of students of these colleges to be engaged in and to be learning critical inquiry. But we do have to make some definition and some identification of aptness and placement and one must, I think, immediately see that universities have traditionally been those institutions engaged in inquiry for its own sake. To a much greater degree the colleges of advanced education are, as I understand it, advised and defined, or should be defined, to cope with problems of a more applied nature - accounting courses, business management and matters of that kind and many other fields which would come to mind if one applied oneself to the task. But while this area of critical inquiry is desirable at all levels we have to have regard to the fact that one sort of institution is the best in that field while another is, as it were, taking it marginally. We have to regard this as of direct relevance to the question of the salaries of those people who work in them and also, perhaps, to some extent the nature of the buildings and the institutions which are being developed. 
As against the proposition put by the honourable member for Bendigo of vast wastelands of new colleges of advanced education and somewhat older technological institutions in Victoria we have, for example, the college of advanced education on Mount Nelson in Hobart. There, to the best of my knowledge, the building is lagging about a year behind schedule - not, as far as I know, because of inadequate finance but rather because of problems of building, organisation and so on. I do not want to run a local example unduly, but it is, I think, relevant to what I am saying. To me it raises the problem of appropriateness as to where these things are and what they are going to do. The question which raised itself as soon as this institution was proposed was: 'Why not have it in Launceston?' I am sure that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  would be only too ready to agree with me that Launceston would have been an ideal place. 
I believe in that regard that insufficient cognisance was taken of the psychological atmosphere, the ethos of the moment. Launceston was very much wanting a university college in-built for home grown tertiary education. It was seen to be inappropriate, in the light of the size of the University of Tasmania, but it appeared that Launceston would have been an entirely appropriate city in which te build Tasmania's first college of advanced education. 1 understand that the decision was made, on the grounds of the relative location of the numbers of students, to put that new institution within a stone's throw - literally, I mean - of the University of Tasmania. I still have a suspicion that it would have been better placed, certainly in terms of public demand - I am not quite so sure on the educational basis - in Launceston. lt would have been taken very readily unto the bosom of the people of Launceston, there to match, perhaps, the new Launceston teachers college. 
That is just one example, and I do not want to take it any further. But to me these new institutions are presented with more serious problems than those outlined by the honourable member for Bendigo (Mt Kennedy) who preceded me. At this stage I will not take any further the question of the difference in the definition of colleges of advanced education and universities because that is a broad field and we are here really dealing with a fairly specific field. 1 do not want further to open up the whole field. But I want to say a few words about the second Bill which we are discussing in this debate. It is certainly a related Bill. It concerns entirely the question of university salaries. The salaries are set out in the appropriate part of the Bill. As I am sure honourable members will recall, it sets out that professorial salaries are to be approximately $5,000 above the base rate paid to honourable members, and I am sure that honourable members will regard that in a true altruistic light. However, the problem, if there is a problem, is not at the professorial level; it is further down the scale. I should say in passing that it is. quite necessary that we should validate this Bill because I understand that the newly elected member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  may be in some difficulty with his back salary. I think that he has been paid the new salary since the beginning of the year. So 1 hope that honourable members opposite will co-operate so that the new member will not be embarrassed. 
I believe that the question of salaries in universities and, for that matter, in colleges of advanced education is more appropriately discussed lower down the scale. I believe that universities - and I hope that colleges of advanced education will not follow suit - have for many years made the mistake qf arguing their salaries from the point of view of the professional level. That is bad politics and bad publicity because somebody always knows a professor who manages to mow his lawn in the middle of the week and thereby that person concludes that the professor works only about 20 hours a week. Some professors may work such hours, but most of those I know work probably closer to 50 or 60 hours a week. The fact that they arc not working behind a desk from 9 o'clock in the morning to 5 o'clock in the afternoon is really quite irrelevant to the issue. 
The problem regarding salaries in these institutions arises really at the lecturing level rather than at the top end of the scale. In fact, even larger problems arise just . below the lecturing level. I take it thai the amounts involved in this Bill in fact make provision for people in the demonstrator categories who are nevertheless academics but are less identifiably so than the junior lecturers. But in both of those categories it is absolutely essential that we should be paying as much as we can pay because we are talking here - and T make no bones about this or apologies for saying it - of the best qualified people hi the community in terms of educational qualifications; in terms of what should be paid for having a certificate or passing an examination or something ot that nature. Of course, 1 know that there are other people in the community who have been educated in the university of hard knocks and that sort of thing. But here we are dealing with education per se, and it is absolutely important that universities and colleges of advanced education should be able to compete with industry, with the community at large, for the best possible skills in this area. 
Of course I know that there arc other problems. Those skills are not always equally identified with teaching skills, but 1 will leave that matter for the time being and talk in terms of buying, as it were, the best brains or some of the best brains, anyway, for teaching other people; for passing on their capacity in a particular discipline. The honourable member for Bendigo has raised quite rightly the question of salaries in colleges of advanced education. 1 do not want to sound as though I am talking like an old university type in this matter, but it should be quite clearly seen that in their present role of fairly substantially applied educators, these colleges of advanced education should in my opinion quite definitely be paying salaries which are demonstrably lower than those paid in universities. 
I think that the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  mentioned earlier that he could envisage the ultimate blending of colleges of advanced education with universities. That may be a great thing, although I should like him tj identify what he means by that a lot more closely before I could concur. But before he does so, I think that we have to take the opposite view; that we are not in fact seeking to blend them. We do not want to make undue and unnecessary compartmentisation. We want to see universities, which are essentially research plus teaching institutions, and colleges of advanced education fulfilling a need which was not previously fulfilled. If we do not see it in that way, then colleges of advanced education are redundant, to some extent, because I do not think than anybody could make out an immediate case that everybody who is to be found in any of the tertiary institutions should be put in a university. We have to make a discrimination, whoever it does not suit. Perhaps some of the honourable members opposite on occasions tend to be more concerned with equality than with equality of opportunity. I believe that it is not right to envisage everybody immediately entering universities. We all have our role to play, and I think it would be a pity if in fact it were assumed immediately that colleges of advanced education should become universities overnight. I say that for reasons which I have outlined, I think, in an earlier debate. 
It is important that the salaries of staff at colleges of advanced education should be kept at the highest possible levels. It is equally important, I should think, that the salaries of staff at universities should be a little distance away. Of course, the honourable member for Bendigo already has raised the question of teachers salaries. The whole structure is integrated. It is quite simply a question of supply and demand. As I see it, the reason why we pay relatively high salaries to people in universities is that they are hard to find. In the last few years in nearly all of the disciplines of which I am aware, it has been hard to find people with the appropriate formal qualifications for appointment to university positions. Some few years ago, 10, 30 or 40 people applied for positions but in the last few years only 2, 3 or 4 people have applied for positions. That situation has changed in a few fields. We already know that the science boom in schools has, for example, produced the result that 20, 30 or 40 people apply for a lectureship in chemistry or physics. But that is the way these things go, and we need to keep the situation under observation and perhaps under control. I believe that it is impossible to iron out totally fluctuations in this sort of filing. 
Finally, I believe that these 2 Bills are indeed appropriately taken as cognate Bills. The whole question of the development of colleges of advanced education must be integrated with the wellbeing of the staffs who man them. The whole process of education must be seen as one continuum. It is an easy matter to identify particular areas of need and forget that they have a relationship to the rest It is equally an easy matter to talk in terms of crises. I certainly do not suggest that all is rosy in the education field. I receive a sufficient number of letters from people around the country to move me to realise that there are teachers who have very considerable problems of conscience, as it were, when they find themselves inadequately placed in certain schools. I think that has always been so. It is so in the United States of America and in Britain. It is so in almost any area in which you like to look. It is not of course so in the universities or in any of those entities. But the situation in such a broad field as education is as variable as you would like to find it 
I commend these 2 Bills to the House. I believe that their object is entirely proper and that they will be one more link in the chain - extensive as it has become - of educational promotion in Australia. It may leave certain inadequacies in the field of advanced colleges but I am as yet unpersuaded that this field is the most needy still remaining in the whole educational entity of Australia. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide a basis for legislation in the programme of assistance to research in education which was outlined to the Parliament by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  in April of this year and introduced in accordance with the statement of policy made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  during last year's election campaign. lt is very nice to see that the Opposition, headed by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  is almost totally in accord with the provisions of this Bill. We will doubtless argue at a later stage in Committee the rights and wrongs of the proposed amendment by which the honourable member for Fremantle wishes to change this body from an advisory capacity to a statutory body. To me at the moment that is of reasonably marginal significance. The greater purport of this Bill is in fact that it provides for research in the field of education itself. We might well ask why it is necessary to provide $250,000 for this purpose but if we look to see what, for example, the field of education per se has received from the Australian Research Grants Committee we find that the amounts have been relatively small, varying recently between about $32,000 and $80,000. Compared with individual science projects which receive amounts of the order of $40.000-odd, that is small peas. 
There are 2 reasons, perhaps, why that is so and why this provision is the more necessary. One is that the area of educational research is, to some extent, selfdefeating. It is a field in which practically everybody thinks he knows, and sometimes does know, what the researchers are talking about because they are talking about people, about teaching them, about entrance qualifications and leaving qualifications and these sorts of things, and almost any member of the community with an IQ of average' level or above is likely to understand what is being talked. This is different from a scientific field like chemistry or physics, where the more rarefied the subject the less likely is the public to understand. Another discipline has previously run into this problem, that of sociology. To some extent it avoided the problem by developing an enormous jargon so that very simple propositions were dressed up in very complex words. I do not need to provide illustrations for honourable members to know what I am talking about. 
Something of the same sort of thing came to pass in the field of education. It is, of course, a self-defeating process because if in fact the terminology - the technical terms - becomes jargon it is seen to be fairly unnecessary for the purpose of the research or the teaching at issue and it tends to bring a certain disrepute on the science, discipline or art concerned. That is the responsibility of the field itself labouring, as it were, under certain difficulties. There is another problem which is not the making of the discipline, and that is one which is common to the arts, the humanities and the social sciences as distinct from the pure and the applied sciences. It is simply the problem of quantification versus qualification. 
When one can show figures, when one can produce formulae, when one can get all sorts of impressive results - whether or not they are in scientific terms impressive - it is fairly easy to make a case and it is fairly easy to get equipment of a tangible kind, often very expensive, to proceed with a particular project or series of projects. Also it has become the case that because of the complexity of these things there has been a tendency for team work, for numbers of people to link up and put a joint case and thereby to strengthen that particular case for funds. The same has not been true of the humanities where, for the most part, people have tended to work individually, although in the social sciences - admittedly to a lesser extent than in the sciences - there is this team work tendency. 
So, both for reasons of its own fallibility and for reasons which are more or less beyond its control the field of education has found it difficult, I believe, to commandeer the funds for research into education which some other fields, notably the scientific fields, have been able to command for their research processes. The provision of this $250,000, in terms of what I have already said, obviously puts pressure upon the educationists who are involved in the research which may come about, and puts them on their mettle, not only to justify their projects but also to minimise their jargon and to minimise those aspects of their findings which may make them incomprehensible to the people and the public who are most interested in seeing those findings appear. 
We do not wish to keep the House unduly long in this debate because the 2 sides of the House are in fairly substantial agreement that the provision is a good one. But may I just touch very briefly on several fields which may well be of interest to the educational researchers. We have already had mention somewhere in one of the relevant debates of the question of entrance qualifications. There is in progress under the auspices of the Department of Education and Science, and through certain State authorities working in collaboration, investigation into the tertiary entrance education project known to those in the trade as TEEP, and this is rather a gratifying development in the light of the fairly considerable criticism which has been made from time to time of the fallibility and the imperfection of testing to get people into universities. 
It is also very heartening if one looks a little further afield to see that we recognise some of our imperfections and are looking constantly for better ways to identify those people who are suitable for further education beyond the secondary sphere, lt makes a very nice contrast, for example - if I may be a little irrelevant - to the resurgence of university attendance in the last few weeks or months in mainland China. The universities have once again opened but unfortunately their entrance qualifications have political connotation and are by adherence to the thoughts of Chairman Mao. We are a long way from that sort of entrance qualification and it is rather nice to see that we realise that we have not yet reached perfection. That is one of the fields which can be and is being pursued. 
One of the others I might mention is, for example, the question of class sizes. I do not want to dwell upon this but there has been a report produced recently to suggest that small class sizes do not necessarily produce totally good effects on the students involved in them compared with large class sizes. It has been assumed for a long time that a figure of 30 was an admirable optimum class size in, say, a seconday or even primary school and anything beyond that created all sorts of tensions and pressures which were inimical to the process of education. That may not be  so  although one suspects that there are a number of factors at work and a good deal of results such as this one will be required to refute the long standing assumption that classes of more than 30 produce problems. 
The main points which I want to touch on are in relation to the possibilities for educational research - and I only just raise a few to bring to people's minds the sorts of fairly basic things which are of some consequence to the Commonwealth and the well-being of the country, its students and its educators. I refer in particular to the field of comprehensive schooling, something which is now widespread in this country following on its introduction longsince in the United States and then its fairly wholesale application under a Labour Government in the United Kingdom. If honourable members were to read a paper titled 'Black Paper 2' produced by Cox and others which is in the Parliamentary Library, they would see some of the most cogent arguments which I have yet read of an educational kind and which in the main refute many of the previous assumptions that comprehensiveness is best and the basic problem here is that there tends to be an assumption, for those particularly interested in equality as against equality of opportunity, that to provide comprehensiveness means that those who would otherwise be disadvantaged may in fact be advantaged. 
-That may be. Whichever government may have initiated these things in whichever country, there is now significant evidence to indicate that it may have been in error. I submit that a very interesting anomaly can be shown here. The comprehensive basis or judgment of education suggests that there is a very considerable infusion of social awareness that academic judgment alone - I mean the testing of academic ability - is insufficient or inadequate. We know that to be true, but the problem is what to substitute. I am rather of the opinion that to substitute an area from which you take all the people, whatever they are like, as it were, and put them into one institution is not necessarily the best answer. 
In Tasmania we have something which is almost in direct contrast with that. It provides, as I see it, something of an educational anomaly. There are institutions - only a few - known as matriculation colleges. Their function simply is to get together into one concentrated institution the leading classes of secondary schooling of the last couple of years or so and to provide better teaching facilities and better teaching personnel. The obvious advantage of that can be seen in terms of the specialisation and the economies of scale which may be involved. But the basis of this has an academic emphasis. It is the taking of an academic judgment so as to put into the one pot all the people who can best benefit intellectually from a particular concentrated environment. It almost completely negates the great interest in the social context, which I have just outlined in relation to comprehensive schools. In other words, in matriculation colleges academic interest or academic ability is paramount. You cut off the tail of the school. You have people from only the upper levels of the secondary school. They have no lesser lights to which to be kind. You have cut off the tail of the social environment. 
Even though many people look at these institutions, as yet in their infancy, and say: 'That looks to be academically very good', they may also have looked at the old Fort Street High School or the old Sydney High School and said exactly the same, but there the social tail had not been cut off. I hope that I have not obscured the point. On the one hand, we have an academic judgment with the rebuff of social judgments. On the other hand we have social infusions which tend to dilute academic judgments. These are fields which 1 think properly can stand a great deal more investigation and testing. Of course, there are many other fields. We could call to mind, for example, the problems which are known to plague some country people whose children have to go to city schools. These people may be still not adequately provided for financially in the sense that they have to keep their children away from home; there is no local high school to which to send them, and so on. This is an area which might well be looked at even further than has been the case up to the present time. 
We may even take on a field which was mentioned by several honourable members in an earlier debate today. They spoke of the democratisation of institutions by the placing of lay people on the governing bodies of these institutions. It may even lend itself to educational research. Perhaps we .could look into the question of what is the optimum composition of the governing body of institutions of a largely autonomous kind. This, as I say, may be yet another field of a seemingly marginal nature, but perhaps an important one in the light of earlier discussions in this chamber. Perhaps money might be expended in this field. I do not wish to take up the time of the House further. I merely say that the appearance of the Australian Advisory Committee on Research and Development in Education, which the Minister has set up, is to all intents and purposes very good. Professor Partridge, the  Chairman  of the Committee, is well known, I think, to most honourable members by name if not in person. I think that I know only one other member of the Committee personally -  Mr Bob  Coggins from South Australia. He being a person of considerable integrity personally and in the education sphere, I was only too happy to see him on the Committee. I cannot speak for the other members, and perhaps we should not judge a committee such as this by the numbers of its personnel. But of course, when we have the names in front of us it is rather nice to see that at least the members known to us have a high standing. Therefore it can be suggested that this Advisory Committee might well fulfil the task for which the Minister has inaugurated it. 

 - Mr Speaker, two of the three speakers who preceded me in this debate are members of the Council of the University under discussion and therefore, I think, might be considered to have a fairly special interest in this subject and perhaps even to be listened to with more intent than the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  or myself. Nevertheless, I wish to take leave to join issue with them and with the honourable member for Wills on some of what they had to say. 
We are discussing the question of raising the Council membership of the Australian National University from 38 members to 41 members. Might I say at this stage that I think that we have before us questions of principle and of practice. 
The question of principle on which 1 would join some slight issue, I think, with the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  as have the honourable members who have spoken before me, is that of declining to accept the proper judgment of the now Council of the University. I think that if that judgment can be accepted at any stage, it should be so. 1 think that, in general, it is unfortunate if we need to exercise our will in an opposite direction. At the same time, this Parliament is substantially, if not entirely, responsible ultimately for the structure of this university, unlike the others in the country, and I think that it must remain to the Government to exercise its judgment on matters of this kind. 
If we are talking about something which is a specifically academic issue, I would find it abhorrent - I notice with some slight pleasure that the Minister has agreed with me - and I would say that it was quite unethical and a transgression of the rights of the University if we were to join issue on a specifically academic matter. But this, surely, is not so. It is a matter of structure of the administration of the University. 
Having made that point which I believe to be one of principle in the broad, I would like to talk about the practice. I believe that a number of red herrings have been drawn across the trail or, if not red herrings, in fact some misconstructions have been presented notably by my friend, the honourable member for Wills, but also constructions with which I do not agree have been put forward by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  and, perhaps to a lesser extent, by my colleague from Warringah  (Mr MacKellar).  They spoke - one or all of them - as if the addition of one or two more students - in fact, it is one student who is being knocked back, as it were - to the Council would change the situation entirely. They spoke as if this would change the situation from one where it is suggested that the student body  is  being rebuffed and not trusted to one in which the student body is seen to be trusted intimately and in which no problem remains. I do not see it that way. 
I think that what we need to look at is this: A body of 38 is to be extended to 41 which, in my view, already becomes well nigh unmanageable in terms of efficient committee organisation. The question is: Who should be added? I would like to put this into context. I think that, if we are talking about the people who importantly should be added to this body, the people to whom I would look first are the subprofessorial representatives. I, at one stage of my young existence, had the benefit of the experience of being on a university council as such a person - a subprofessorial representatives - for 2 years. There is no doubt whatsoever in my mind - whether or not I had been in that position - that the more important addition to this Council are the 2 extra sub-professorial members. 
Now, it may be regarded by the honourable member for Wills and some other people as a somewhat conservative and even archaic notion - no, I do the honourable member for Wills wrong; he said something to this effect - to believe that a university is in fact a community of scholars. Some people do not believe this any more. But, if it is, a university is a community of people of all ranks and grades who have proved their scholastic worth, more or less, and who join at certain times with the administrative echelons to run an academic institution. 
By definition, the people who are there to learn scholarship are not already scholars. They may be coming along very well in the making. Therefore, we must look at the reasons for student membership of the Council. The reasons are good reasons but, basically, they are reasons, as I see the situation, which involve a 2-way play of information. They enable the student body to put its views and its slant upon any decision which is being made by the governing body, that is, the Council. They enable that Council officially, formally and with due writing to transmit through the student body representative or representatives the reasons for certain decisions being taken and so on. 
There has not been any suggestion either in this legislation or by the people who so far have spoken to the Bill that any attempt should be made to have the student body in such a situation that its representatives were remotely in a position to out-vote for example the professorial nominated members, the GovernorGeneral's nominees, the Convocation's nominees and so on. So, it is a question of representation for the transmission of information and attitudes as well as, if honourable members like, judgments; but it is not a question of out-voting. The acceptance of an extra undergraduate representative in no way would have made any difference to that situation. 
Tn fact, it could be said that the views of the students would be represented adequately by, let us say, the  president  of their representative council or whatever it is called. It therefore seems to me that much the more important additions really in terms of practical academics is the adding of sub-professorial representatives. 
Still, it is true - and I agree with the honourable member for Wills on this point - that we in Australia are conservative in this matter. As far as I know - I may be a little bit out and I may even have the names wrong - the most progressive, if honourable members like, the most enlightened and the most permissive liberal representation of any governing body that I can recall is at the University of Sussex in which the University's statutes say something to the effect that not more than one-third of the council of the university or its equivalent shall be of professors. In other words, the non-professorial or subprofessorial staff has a major say in the governing of that quite new institution. 
We are a far cry from that position. But I would argue, without I hope being dubbed the greatest conservative of all time, that on a body of this size the acceptance of a total of 3 student representatives^ - one a graduate student in effect, one the  president  of the governing body of students and one another student - is not a bad representation to enable the situation which I have outlined as 1 see it to exist. This is a situation in which the transmission of attitudes and information is possible and even is formalised. 
There is - and people have tended to overlook this fact - on that governing body a sector whereby the Convocation can have 4 representatives out of the total of 38 which is to be increased by this legislation to 41. We are in the process of passing a Bill to provide that these people shall not need to have 3 years standing. They can be - I know that it is unlikely, but they can be - graduates of immediate succession. In other words, it would be possible, however unlikely, that the Convocation could put forward 4 immediate graduates onto the governing body of the University. So, it is very hard to see how one can properly argue that the views of undergraduate students, of research students and of newly graduated people will be overlooked. 
A great deal of this, as of any system, depends on the worth of the operators. What I am really talking about is the structure. If the operators have it in mind not to listen to properly put views, decently reasoned arguments and so on, no system will make the position better. But it seems to me that, given the goodwill of the operators - and that is almost to be expected in a situation such as this - this structure is not one which is inimical to the rights of the undergraduates. 
One could dilate and broaden this argument very greatly indeed, lt has been implied, 1 think by some of the previous speakers, that this raises the whole question of youth and student representation in particular. Of course, this is a major issue of debate in the world as of the last 2 or 3 years, lt is not true to say however that the structure which is here being revised or modified shows a lack of trust in students, shows a disinclination to listen to their views or anything of that kind. In fact, the contrary is true. But I would maintain the conservative view that essentially the same outlook applies to people in training as that which applies to those at much lower levels of education - about which we could argue at some length - involving essentially the  comprehensive and even sub-comprehensive views of education and the suggestion that people who know not very much may. by sitting around in circles of their own number, pool their joint ignorance and thereby learn a great deal. Having not so terribly long since been an undergraduate in two or three universities, although the time moves on, I submit that basically students are at a university to learn and to offer what views they develop from that learning as they go along. There is no case to answer about having any very substantial student representation, although it would have been a nice sop or, even better than that, perhaps a nice acquiescence if in fact the Government or the Minister had not seen fit to drop one undergraduate representative from the Council. 
I do not want to raise the whole issue of student power and student representation in institutions such as universities at large. I think 1 have indicated briefly the relative conservatism of my view. I believe that basically it is not doing students a great favour to take ever increasing numbers of their body on to the ultimate governing body of an institution such as a university for the purpose of making them feel they have power. Unless they have a potential majority of votes, they do not have power; they have only the appearance of power. In fact they have representation. That is what they should have; that is what they do have. That is what they can best use, and I believe that for the time being representation on the Council of students, as distinct from the sub-professorial staff, to whom I have referred earlier and whom I regard as being on such a body as this by right, can properly be regarded as a matter of grace and not necessarily as a right, because the students are there to learn at least because they know somewhat less than the people who are there to teach them, although you,  Mr Speaker,  and others might disagree with that viewpoint. 
A year ago I attended in Canberra an Australian Citizenship Convention which was one of a number of such meetings which have been held since the war. Two or 3 weeks ago I attended a meeting of the Australian Institute of Political Science which dealt with the subject of immigration. The first of those conferences dealt substantially with the problems of migrants as seen by various workers in the field of immigrant education and interest in the community. The most lasting impression that I got from that conference was of the difficulties faced by migrants in coping with the English language, most notably by those with least access to it, and particularly by migrant housewives. The main burden of the second conference which was held 2 or 3 weeks ago was in fact a discussion on the pros and cons - perhaps there were more cons than pros - of the migration programme long since conducted with joint party approval in this country. 
I find it a little interesting that the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  in the new atmosphere produced by the second conference and just before and after it by newspaper and other comment relating thereto, has now discovered that the Government, if I read him aright, has done too little too late in the field of migrant education. I do not complain that he has found it. After all, he is in a position where he should be finding such information. In the main I compliment him on one of the more constructive speeches which I have heard him make in this House in intent if not entirely in execution. Indeed, I will agree with two or three of the suggestions he made. Nevertheless, the suggestion is that we have perhaps with some complacence but certainly with considerable agreement across the board or across the floor of this House and elsewhere in the community conducted a programme of immigration which has made various gestures and various activity projects to inculcate into migrants the best understanding that seems possible in a given time of the English language, whereby they could better be assimilated - 1 think the word is now integrated - into the community. As people who have listened to the honourable member for Grayndler will know, this is a vast enterprise. It is a very considerable operation to find out how, why and where we can best conduct the education of people not specifically brought up in the same means of communication as ourselves. Perhaps we should be glad that it is their problem at that stage rather than ours. It is very difficult sometimes to make oneself understood in someone else's parlance. 
The proposition before the House is quite a comprehensive one. As the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  mentioned in his second reading speech there are 2 or 3 major aspects of this educational programme. There are the question of educating migrant children, the question of the extension and improvement of adult education in one or more parts of the world, and the question of an intensive language course for migrants better versed in some skill or other who possibly are already acquainted with the rudiments of the English language and are better able to comprehend an intensive course than are others. Some facts of the matter have already been adduced by the honourable member for Grayndler and the Minister at an earlier stage. I do not want to go over those unnecessarily. But the situation certainly is clear. About 26 per cent of 3.1 million gross arrivals - some of course have returned home in the interim - between 1945 and 1969 have been under 15 years of age. So there would appear to be immediately a prima facie case for very considerable child education in the English language for migrant children. Many of these children, of course, have come from homes and continue to come from homes where English is rarely if ever spoken. To overcome this problem the Government has identified several specific activities which it intends to implement through the Department and education departments in the States to improve the situation. The Commonwealth intends to pay salaries for the teachers of special classes. It will conduct training courses for teachers in the method of teaching English as a foreign language. It' will introduce language laboratories and other equipment. This is a programme costing of the order of $1.5m per annum out of the $4m per annum overall which is to be spent. 
The joint Commonwealth-New South Wales Education Department survey which was conducted a short while ago showed that of the 7,700 migrant children surveyed English was spoken at home ali or most of the time in only 15 per cent of the households. In fact, English was never spoken in 42 per cent of the homes. This, of course, is a most impressive figure indicating the dearth of English in the home situation of a considerable proportion of migrant children. Further figures discerned from this survey show that in households where no English is spoken some 27 per cent of the children were making what was rated to be good progress or better at school. On the other hand, however, the 63 per cent who were making poor progress at school came from the 'no English' speaking homes. We do not need to adduce any further figures to show that a problem exists. 
I think that, this having been said, it is fairly obvious even to the uninitiated in these matters that the problem with children is unlikely to be as serious in a continuing sense, lt may be serious initially and thereby provide quite some impedi ment to a rapid or a normal increase in educational advancement, but it is likely to be a situation which will be overcome in the natural course of events merely by virtue of the fact that children are children, they are young, they are receptive and they are mixing with other children at least most of whom certainly speak English. Therefore these children, despite the disadvantage of the home situation at that stage, are likely in the normal course of their intermixing to get along fairly well. That is not to say that the programme should not be implemented at least as much as is envisaged. 
It seems to me that the greater problem is the one which concerns adult education. Certainly, the honourable member for Grayndler had quite a bit to say about that. Although approximately one-third of foreign born migrants cannot in any effective way speak English when they get here, the intake in recent years in adult evening education classes conducted, to take one or two examples, has been quite considerably less than the number of current arrivals. For example, in 1966-67 there were 19,000 enrollees in the adult classes for language whereas 45,000 migrant arrivals occurred in the same year with respect to that area of need. In 1968- 69, 21,000 migrants enrolled whereas 61,000 migrants who needed to do so, in effect, arrived in this country. So, it is pretty clear that, as the honourable member for Grayndler rightly has said, we are not getting all these people in. The problem remains. 1 do not think that he quite adequately answered this problem although he tried to do so. The problem is: How do we get these people in. In particular, how do we get in the housewife more so even than the chappy who is at work and perhaps can be persuaded to get in by various employer incentives of the kind outlined. Certainly it would not appear to be exactly antithetical to the private enterprise ethic to have some employer indulgence in this matter and even an incentive whereby time was made available as well as facilities even for these people who certainly it can be argued make up a considerable part of our labour force. This is one of the major arguments for immigration being continuous. It would not be bad for those people who are benefiting most directly from the provision of this labour force to have some part in improving the status and the general worthiness - I do not use 'worthiness' in the moral sense - of the people whom they are employing. In this way they can assist those people to partake community life as a whole. 
The review and extension of adult education which is envisaged takes place in several areas - at source, in Europe or elsewhere, and on shipboard, if it is shipboard, and in Australia. I have taken the trouble to talk to a small number of people who have been involved in the adult education programme. I have found that one or two problems exist. It is hard to go along with the honourable member for Grayndler who wants to provide holus bolus, as it were, classrooms, because surely this will detract from trie education need which he has identified already. We need to bear in mind that one of the biggest problems of capitalisation in the education field is that classrooms, whether they be university, technical college, secondary school or primary school classrooms, are not on the whole very greatly utilised. They may be during the day, but there are large periods during each day in a year - large chunks of each day, perhaps T might say - when classrooms are not used. This is one of the arguments for extending the university teaching year. Capital equipment in this way will be used more persistently. 
It seems to me that when we are talking about school classrooms being used for adult migrant education, whether or not we involve also the question of special equipment for laboratory type situations and so on, it should be possible to use existing facilities at different hours than generally those facilities get their normal use without however detracting from expenditure in other normal areas of education, or, alternatively, incurring a larger additional capital expenditure for this purpose. 
There are some problems which seem to be of a minor kind perhaps to which the Minister for Immigration might direct his attention if he has not done so already. For instance - and I hope that my figures are up lo date - a class maximum in the adult migrant education programme is regarded as 24. I compare this with the figure of 30 which is the generally accepted figure put forward by most teach er bodies as the optimum for normal class teaching. I wonder whether the figure for adult education in this respect might not stand a reduction given special consideration of the very considerable difficulties under which some of the people in these classes are working. 
There is the question of materials needed, on which I think the honourable member for Grayndler touched. I would like to raise in this respect the question of the availability and accessibility of materials and not so much the question of whether or not they exist. There needs to be a very considerable degree of co-operation between the school in which the classes are being held and those who teach the classes. If the people teaching belong to the school at which the teaching is taking place, there is no problem as I see it. But if in fact this work is being carried out in some centre where the teachers do not teach normally, it is necessary sometimes for the materials involved in teaching to be housed in some teacher's room, office or common room. For various personal reasons, understandable perhaps in the main, it is not always easy to get at such materials at the time when they are needed. This is something which perhaps the departmental officers involved in supervising these things might need to consider more carefully. 
Another question concerns the teaching kit required. It is quite bulky. A car is needed to move it around. Strange as it may be in this day and age it is not always possible for the teacher concerned to have access to this means of transport. This is a practical problem which again appears minor but which may loom a little larger in the eyes of some of the teachers conducting these classes. 
The question of incentives to enrol and the problem of dropouts from these adult migration classes in language are real ones. It is very difficult to provide an answer. I do not think that the honourable member for Grayndler grappled with these problems to ultimate effectiveness, and I find myself unable to give the ultimate answers. How in fact do we get people who prefer to do some more work, to stay at home, to earn overtime or to do whatever it is that they do, to attend such classes? How do we impress upon them sufficiently the importance to them of learning English in a working manner as quickly as possible? How do we demonstrate the fact that by doing so they will enhance their own status and increase their own usefulness to themselves, to their families and to the community at large. It is a difficult question and I think that it may be answerable only by those people who are engaged in the field of migrant education. This is not buck passing. It is deferring to those who would appear to be most likely to know. 
The question of intensive language courses does not need to be outlined at any length at all. These are for a relatively special group, a group already having the benefit of greater capacity, it would appear, to learn. The amount being spent on this training appears to be relatively large. It will rise from approximately 100,000 to in excess of Sim in this financial year alone. This would appear to be money well spent because we are talking of people who are very likely on a per capita basis to infuse into the community a very considerable contribution not only by their efforts and through their own skills in other areas but also, one would imagine, probably by virtue of the fact of having these skills and being capable of acquiring expression in English - and other languages for that matter - more rapidly are they likely to be leaders of their own communities, insofar as there are communities of new migrants. They are therefore likely to very much repay the money spent on this avenue of migrant education. 
I think that through all this it should be borne in mind that, desirable though it is, it is not necessary - I do not imply that it is - that in attempting to teach English to migrants, adult or otherwise, wherever we might aim, that we have to achieve perfection in a short period of time. After all, we do not achieve it here. We do not achieve it amongst most of our students, and perhaps it would be overmuch to expect to achieve it amongst migrants. In fact, what we need is a basic form of expression, a simplicity and a general understanding that is sufficient to get the person concerned through situations of everyday life. Of course, the so-called Australian situational method has recognised that. May I indicate what I mean and show the sort of achievement which I think we might try to get. I will quote from a letter written by a West Indian day labourer in Britain concerning a problem which he had. He expressed himself as follows: 
Respected Sir: 
When I got to the building,  I  found that the hurricane had knocked some bricks off the top. So I rigged up a beam with  a  pulley  at  the top of the building and hoisted up a couple of barrels full of bricks. When I had fixed the building, there was a lot of bricks left over. 1 hoisted the barrel back up again and secured the line at the bottom, and then went up and filled the barrel with extra bricks. Then I went to the bottom and cast off the line. 
Unfortunately, the barrel of bricks was heavier than 1 was and before I knew what was happening the barrel started down, jerking me off the ground. I decided to hang on and halfway up I met the barrel coming down and received a severe blow on the shoulder. 
I then continued to the top, banging my head against the beam and getting my finger jammed in the pulley. When the barrel hit the ground it  bursted  its bottom, allowing all the bricks to spill out. 
I was heavier than the empty barrel and so started down again at high speed. Halfway down, I met the barre! coming up and received severe injuries to my shins. When I hit the ground I landed on the bricks, getting several painful cuts from the sharp edges. 
At this point I must have lost my presence of mind, because I let go of the line. The barrel then came down giving me another heavy blow on the head and putting me in the hospital. 
As the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has correctly discerned in advance, the bricklayer wanted some workmen's compensation. But the point of the story is that that letter written by somebody who had learnt English somewhere other than his native country included the elements of clarity, simplicity, perhaps a certain archaic flavour, and the dramatic effect dependent upon understatement. If we could get most of our migrants to that situation I am sure the Minister would be well pleased. I think even the honourable member for Grayndler would be well pleased. I feel, without I hope undue sanguineness of mind at this stage, that the programme involving this $16m or so to be spent in 4 years in several avenues of migrant education in language is well devised, even if not as comprehensive as some people would want, to improve the situation as we currently find it. The question of whether we intend to teach more people and to keep the programme rolling so that the problems are not perhaps compounded or increased as the years go by is one which I am sure we will be debating at another time. 
My question to the Minister for Immigration concerns recent criticism by non-Australians of Australia's immigration policy. Will the Minister indicate clearly to the House that, contrary to the opinions of some international moralists, Australia's non-European immigration policy is our own business and is designed to preserve a community free from the tensions which characterise other parts of the world? Will he confirm that it does and will allow a limited number of nonEuropean persons to migrate to Australia and, particularly, that it is a policy based on our capacity to integrate those who come here? 
J rise to emphasise the importance of the activity which lies behind this Bill. The Bill refers to very narrow activities indeed. For that reason I cannot help but remark that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  have fallen into pit into which I am about to follow them, I imagine, of talking more widely than the field covered by the Bill. Nevertheless, because the activities are so important and because I have had more than a peripheral association with some of them over past years I would like to take this opportunity to refer to what 1 believe to be the considerable importance of this form of activity, an importance which I think is not recognised by the man in the street. The very considerable range of uses to which maps of one sort or another are put is not recognised, I think, by most people although they might use one or two of the particular forms of maps into which the base maps that we are talking about here are developed. 
The honourable member for Riverina has regretted the apparent lack of rapidity in the production of soil maps, but I think he should do so in the context of the vast array of maps which it is possible to produce. One could run through a list of twenty or thirty in terms of land capability, land utilisation, forest resources, water resources, ground water and so on. Basically speaking, what the honourable member should be thinking of and what I would like to outline is merely this: In those countries, notably the European ones, where there is a long tradition dating back several centuries in one or two cases, of national mapping it is a continuous - not continual - process by which the nation is covered at one scale or another and by which the technology of doing so is constantly improved. The country having been covered by a particular scale of map. it is then covered progressively either on the same scale or by a revised version. So we find countries like the United Kingdom and Switzerland with their seventh, eighth and ninth revised series of I inch to the mile or 1 to 100.000 national maps or productions of that order. 
As the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  pointed out in his second reading speech, here we finally covered our considerable area in 1968. I think at the scale of 1 to 250,000. The Minister covered just about everything relating to this issue. He told us that the next part of the programme was to proceed to a 1 to 100,000 scale coverage with 20 metre contour intervals of the national area. As the honourable member for Dawson said, the second half of the National Mapping Division's major programme concerns the bathymetric maps, the off-shore maps covering water bodies and reefs contained therein. In that regard it is true to say that some of the bathymetric maps - I do not know what proportion of them as 1 am not familiar with this field - date roughly from the 1870s to the 1880s and are in the process of substantial revision now for the first time since then. I do not want to go at length into the question of what we can do in the process of national mapping. I wish to emphasise that it is an extraordinarily important facet of our national development. People have said that before me. Only those who have attempted to deal with things in space - to look at them in their physical sense, to look at their soils or their productivity capacity, or to look at the demographic situation - without having access to a map of the area properly drawn up and totally dependable, or at least very substantially dependable in terms of its accuracy, will realise just how difficult it is to proceed with that sort df work. This has been the case in parts of Australia for quite some time. 
The Division of National Mapping and people such as Trevor Plumb are doing an extraordinarily important piece of work. The land research people in the CSIRO have drawn up considerable surveys of large parts of the Northern Territory in particular and also of some of the other interior areas of Australia and elsewhere. Those reports, in their fairly distinctive orange covers, are worth reading by those who are interested, such as the honourable member for Riverina, in regard to land capacity and the physical accuracy of particular elements in an area under notice. It is true to say that despite the vast advances which have been made in the last few decades in aerial photography and associated technology - notably in photogrammetry - and also in some more complex processes with which I am not familiar in any sense at all, it is still necessary to tie the mapping programme to the earth's surface. In fact that is the purpose of this Bill to which I shall definitely return. 
The purpose of the Bill is to empower the Minister for National Development to authorise survey parties to enter land, carry out mapping surveys, put survey marks on the ground when necessary and do certain limited clearing and so on. The Bill provides for compensation for loss or damage to property as a result of those incursions and also prohibits the unlawful damage or destruction or removal of the marks put there for the purposes of survey by the Commonwealth teams. Really this is all we are concerned with seeing put into operation. Despite the fact that I have joined with honourable members who have preceded me in this debate in taking note of the importance of this activity in general, I cannot but think in view of the importance of some of the legislation that has been before us in the past year or so their specific attention to the fact that it has taken the better part of a year to get this small Bill through is something like crocodile tears. I think it is highly unlikely that the programme of national mapping has in any significant way been held up as a result of this Bill not being passed. If I am wrong no doubt someone will draw my attention to it in due course. 
It remains only for me to say that despite the fact that the national mapping programme seems really in more than one sense to have got off the ground, this will be something to which the attention of this Parliament will be drawn with increasing frequency because, as I said earlier, any country which is attempting to develop itself in anything like the way in which this country is - the record in national development of others which have gone before us stands clearly - will find itself increasingly with a need to develop its mapping programmes. Once having covered the area of the country it will be found that there is at least as much reason for covering it again on a larger scale and in more detail with advanced symbolism and more precision, so that we get the nearest thing possible to rendering a part of the earth's surface onto a 2-dimensional piece of paper, thereby enabling us to find our way around and read all sorts of things, if we are expert, about what the area consists of. I too commend this Bill, whether it is belated or otherwise, to the House. 
Has the Minister for Customs and Excise -seen reports of recent public comment by the honourable member for Maribyrnong to the effect that marihuana is a pretty harmless drug and should therefore be legalised? Can he tell the House whether any significant medical or legal evidence exists to support the contention? 
Censorship is a subject of considerable social importance, so for the second time in 25 speeches I have made in this House I have written out what I want to say. I compliment the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  on his statement on censorship in June 1970. Although, like the Community Standards Organisation which has commented on  it  publicly,  1 join  issue with the Minister on a few of his assessments, I rejoice at his constructive and analytical approach lo an age-old problem. A censor is one who exercises official or officious supervision over morals and conduct. Thus censorship connotes official supervision. More specifically, the Oxford dictionary sees it as the inspection of books and like material 'to secure that they shall contain nothing immoral, heretical, or offensive to the government'. One must presume that the government is regarded in that definition as coincident with the community rather than a political philosophy. 
The Minister began his statement by a reference to social change, although he did not choose to enlarge upon changes through time in what the public find acceptable on the one hand and offensive on the other hand. I think it is instructive and revealing to do so. While censorship is imposed by authority, bowdlerism is a voluntary act, and for that reason should be less emotionally provocative to the opponents of censorship in any form, and perhaps a better indicator of what the community thinks of itself. At the same time bowdlerism is described by Perrin as 'just one more mode of editing, and to distinguish it from other modes is the hard thing.' 
In the 1790s  Sir Walter  Scott sent some requested novels to a great-aunt. She soon returned them with the comment that it was 'a very odd thing that I, an old woman of 80 and upwards, silling alone, feel myself ashamed to read a book which, 60 years ago, I have heard read aloud for the amusement of large circles, consisting of the best and most creditable circles in London.' At the end of the nineteenth century even a poet as austere as Milton appeared in school texts with omissions designed to shield excitable teenagers from the knowledge that Satan committed incest, Eve had a good figure or that she and Adam did not in their garden years wear anything to bed.' 
In the late eighteenth century a young buck kissed the hem of an old lady's gown. Asked why, he said, 'To honour old age', whereupon the old lady rejoined, You might have kissed my backside then, for that is 40 years older.' The point of the anecdote is the changing social acceptability of words and actions. In 1740 the old lady would not have said 'backside', but 'arse'. In 1788, when she spoke, refinement was in progress. From the early nineteenth century to World War I she would have made no remark at all. In the 1920s and 1930s she would have said 'behind'. In the unlikely event of having her gown kissed in the 1970s she would again say arse', 'bum' or the slightly euphemistic American 'ass'. 
Reaction to words and deeds was probably never more arbitrary than with the new propriety of the eighteenth century. Delicate people could physically demonstrate their refinement by fainting, crying or blushing easily. When in the 1770s Lady Louisa Stuart read 'Pamela' she worried lest at the age of 14 years she 'should not cry enough to gain the credit of proper sensibility.' A magazine of 1793 satirised this cultivated delicacy with a mock advertisement: "Grown ladies and gentlemen taught sensibility on mathematical principles'. Unfortunately, bowdlerism and the new prudery were associated with, though not wholly dependent upon, the rise of evangelical religion in the 18th century. The 4 Bowdlers, John Wesley and many others expurgated literature in the cause of Christianity. Worse, some of their coreligionists developed double standards of morality whereby they freely denounced the standards of others while their own private conduct would not have borne examination. Hypocrisy is still with us and least suits those who pretend to be above it. 
If there is to be censorship - I shall return to that question shortly - we must at least do our best to avoid double standards and inconsistent judgments. In his book Map of Love' Keith Buchanan calls attention to the public display of suggestive girlie magazine covers in Australia while Wayland Young's serious work 'Eros Denied' was at that time banned. His words are worth quoting. He said:   . . Let us set against . . . these permitted images - 
That is to say, the girlie magazines -  the 2 illustrations Young chooses from Roman vases . . . ; these each show a couple in the intimacy of complete love making, tender, full of beauty and joy ... A society which would exclude such images, yet can tolerate the brashness of the burlesque or the pin-up is assuredly a passing strange society, if not a sick society. 
I am quite sure that the Minister is aware of this misplaced morality and that his judgments since taking office have been aimed at its removal. 
Let me come now to the crux of the matter. Should there be censorship of literature and other art forms? If so, for whom, by whom and on what criteria? I disagree with the Minister, as does the Community Standards Organisation, when he argues that 'the concept of censorship is abhorrent to all men and women who believe in the basic freedoms'. If the alter native to that is unfettered licence or unrestrained filth then I choose censorship. Of the 3 choices - total freedom, total restraint and assessed moderation - I find only the last realistic or attractive. Even J. S. Mill qualified his espousal of individual liberty by the recognition that in the exercise of freedom the individual must not be a nuisance to others. 
My emphasis, then, is upon balance and moderation. The existence of sex and violence - the main objects of censorship - are hardly to be denied, but books or films consisting of unrelieved sex or unrelieved violence are likely to be unreal. Even the portrayal of a violent episode in human history or imagination is likely to benefit its consumers better by being read or seen in the context of normality. How do we recognise good without evil, or vice versa? Important though it is, sex shares the range of human actions and responses with other basic drives, such as love both sexual and platonic, fear and self preservation. There is, I believe, no compulsion or obligation to show the sordid in life ad nauseam. That is as unbalanced as the pretence that there is nothing sordid in the human condition or that if there is we should not know of it. Again there should be the concept of moderation. The purveyors of extremes may not hold the concept to be valid, but I am confident that many of them would regard a totality of Liberal governments in Australia as a surfeit of political ideology. Only by seeing some Labor governments in power could they properly judge such alternatives. 
Let us bear this also in mind, that few of the unbending anti-censors are as exclusively devoted to artistic integrity as they would like us to believe. Since art forms are much involved in the field of censorship the question of artistic merit must frequently be resolved. That is as it should be. But let us remember that rarely is a pecuniary interest absent. Why then should the community, in whole or in part, be affronted by filth or licence for the financial gain of a few? Are they beyond the standards which prevent my drawing greater attention to my speeches in this place by the consistent use of lurid language whose main purpose is to shock and to draw attention rather than to present balanced substance? Why also should individuals be hurt when no social good is gained, merely because the great majority are uninvolved and those greedy for money feed their vicarious interests on the misfortunes of others? I call to mind the programme 'Wanted' on Channel 9 in Sydney which subjected the actions of  Dr Gilbert  Bogle and others to speculative interpretation which was as hurtful as it was unsubstantiated and socially unredeemng. 
By the same token, neither is it incumbent upon a largely inarticulate or inert public to accept fringe behaviour in the guise of normality. Too often does a minority vested interest persuade a majority untrained in artistic or behavioural analysis that the majority's failure to take part in the abnormal is .itself not normal. How then do we judge what is normal and acceptable, and what is extreme and censorable? I can conclude only that the committee system in one form or another is the answer. A kind of jury, albeit with better than average education, seems best fitted to make a continuing assessment of what is generally in the public interest. We already have that system. The exposure of its workings or findings to public interest is a healthy co-requisite of its existence. This brings us to the questions of community standards and censorship for whom? lt is proper, yet easy, to answer that the young must be protected. Certainly they should, and much more could be done to programme violent and erotic television material after 10 p.m. or thereabouts so that parents can feasibly keep their children away if they wish. 
This material is much more obtrusive on television than in books covering similar fields. The real difficulty of decision comes in the adult range of interest, lt is clear that unanimity is impossible, but consensus is in the realm of the attainable. Last year I watched the Minister's film cuts with interest and observed the variation of comment subsequently. I take but one example to illustrate the difficulties involved. Evan Williams in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 15th April 1970 wrote that he saw nothing in the whole show likely to deprave or corrupt a normal adult. In general I agreed, though taste is another matter. However, among the generally undisturbing film cuts  Mr Williams  found repugnant the love scene with 2 women from the film The Killing of Sister George'. I believed it to be the most tender and artistically moving excerpt of the evening. In my opinion its repugnance could not have stemmed from the observed action but from preconceived notions that homosexual behaviour is bound to be disgusting. I make my comment in the confidence of being an exponent neither of homosexuality nor of lesbianism. 
Not the least of the problem of community standards derives rom the fact that the community is far from homogeneous socially, intellectually or educationally. It is instructive to see set down in a work such as Richard Hoggart's 'The Uses of Literacy' the width of the gap in verbal and social experience between the industrial and professional populations. Although the so-called working classes are used to rougher language than the better educated, censors will be almost certainly more permissive of the unusual by being better read than the average. In any case, better that the decisions be made by them than by individual politicians or, worse, by the faceless and even mindless promoters of sub-standard commercial garbage. Perhaps there is something to be said for the old practice of recognising differences in the community, although I understand the viewpoint of those who find offensive differential responses which involve social or economic division, lt was in fact common practice into the 20th century to produce large, cheap, incomplete editions for the many and small, expensive, complete ones for the few. Price differences could be of the order of $3 to S 17 for such differential productions. 
What is it then that we should be debating? In his commentary on the Australian Broadcasting Commission on 20th April 1970  Dr Charlesworth  of Melbourne drew a distinction between the social effects of censorship and the relationship between law and morality. He believed that the arguing is really about the latter - that is, the nature and function of the State - while the argument often concerns the social effects of censorship. 1 have little doubt that the Government has to be involved in the issue, although it is true that many who oppose censorship appear more concerned about Big Brother's intervention than the social effects of censorship. However, once the Government is involved then its judgment clearly is on social grounds. I have a feeling that censorship will always be with us in some degree, if only as a reflection of the different backgrounds, training and attitudes in the community. 
I reiterate my main arguments. I am for moderation; for judgment in context; for an attempted appreciation of real as distinct from false sensitivity; for social responsibility by exercising discrimination: for the instructive against the vicarious; in favour of the uplifting rather than the hurtful; and for restricting the portrayal of ultimate degrees of explicit experience in favour of some appeal to the imagination. Pursuit of these ends will, I believe, add to the quality of man in Australia. But remember,  Mr Acting Speaker,  that next time you write a letter to a newspaper you may be censored by an unknown subeditor. 
Does the Treasurer share my concern at reports that the Commonwealth census of 1971 may be deferred? Is he aware, I ask with deference, that such a deferral would be no less than a statistical disaster and, in the direct sense of the term, a false economy? Will he take any steps necessary to ensure a wide understanding that an irremediable act such as altering the intercensal period should not be equated with other economies like delays in building construction? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education and Science. I remind the Minister of the 1970 Eggleston Committee report on academic salaries which recommended future adjustments in accordance with national wage case decisions. I ask the Minister: Firstly, did the Commonwealth inform the States that it would provide a share of the funds required to implement the recommendation? Secondly, which State governments have so far accepted the recommendation? Thirdly, in which universities has salary adjustment been provided for in consequence of the recent national wage case decision? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Housing. Has he seen the recent research report of the Australian Institute of Urban Studies titled Housing Authorities in Urban Renewal'? Will he draw it to the attention of his departmental officers? Will he also bring it to the attention of the honourable member for Reid so that his statements in this area may be based more on fact than on fantasy? 
I have followed the continuing drama of the Canberra land ordinance with some interest and it is lo maintain interest that I rise to contribute to the debate. The essential problem is that the fixation of land rent at 5 per cent of unimproved land values, reappraised every 20 years, did not relate to development costs and created varying discrepancy between comparable blocks at different stages of lease. The dramatis personae, or at least a select list of them, who have entered the field of the drama of the Canberra land ordinance includes the following: The opposition to the ordinance is currently led by the Opposition in this chamber. On its side, as it were, is the Land Values Research Group, and notably  Sir Ronald  East. Then there is the Henry George League, which appears to be relevant, even though I think one or two members opposite decline to think so. Then there is J. H. Morris, ex-Mayor of Coburg, and also the 'Canberra Times'. On the other side, currently defending the ordinance are the Ministers for the Interior past and present - in particular, the Minister's statement of 24th February of this year. There is also Alan R. Marr who circulated a letter to members of Parliament in very subdued and, I thought, wellreasoned terms. In the position of adjudicator, as it were, is Professor H. W. Arndt who was published in the 'Canberra Times' thereby showing the open-minded approach of that newspaper. Despite that, however, I do not share the view of the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  who believes that we should have government by the 'Canberra Times'. The central feature in this cast is not any of those whom I have just mentioned but is, in fact, the land itself. 
Land, as I think the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  suggested, is a finite quantity. It is more or less incapable of extension except by some marginal reclamation works here and there. It is as good an example as one could find of supply and demand, or of a stimulus to supply and demand. It is hardly surprising that as the population of this or any other territory grows, the demand for land in a given area will increase. I stand constantly surprised at the Opposition's surprise that such a condition should be so. Nevertheless there are ways and means of controlling, in some reasonably equitable way, the distribution of that land among various people who want to settle on it. The proposal of this ordinance in essence, as I see it, is the replacement of an annual land rent by an increase in rates - that is to say, a change in the system of taxation on land. 
Among the various non-proposals which are included in this discussion are proposals to do away with the leasehold system. The ordinance is not 'in effect misappropriation of public property' -  Mr Morris.  Nor is it 'giving away the public lands in Canberra? - the Henry George League. Nor is it 'the Canberra lease scandal' -  Sir Ronald  East. Nor is it various other quotations of the same ilk which have been put forward and which indicate the emotionalism which has come into this argument which, at base, is a fairly simple one. It is true to say that it is not really capable of very simple solution. 
 Some of the effects of the ordinance should be well known to the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  They are as follows: Firstly, and probably foremostly, the leasehold system remains and the land is in Commonwealth ownership. Nothing that the honourable member for Reid, the honourable member for Cunningham or anybody else will say can show that the situation is or will be otherwise. Secondly, siting, design and planning controls are to be fully maintained. Thirdly, leases cannot be transferred unless  a  building covenant is complied with. 
Fourthly, anomalies created by the old system of land release and re-appraisal of rents are removed. Fifthly, a tax on land will reflect the development cost of the land in keeping with general practice. Sixthly, where value is added by a change of function - that is to say, a change of use of land - the Commonwealth receives a capital payment - 50 per cent in fact of that increased value. Just by the way, that provision achieves much of the Henry George League's objective of taxing away unearned increment on land. 
There are many facets of the problem as already adduced by the Minister for the Interior and the former Minister for the Interior who is now the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and other speakers in this debate. I think some of them at least should be taken up and even re-taken up and assessed. Firstly, among these objectives and suggestions is the question of a change to a shorter lease. It is, in theory at least, possible to effect a shorter term of lease than the 20-year period which it will be apparent to anyone is somewhat excessively long given the increasing demand for land and therefore the inclination of people to want to pay more for it. But it would appear to be extremely difficult - and I have no doubt that my colleague the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  will be able to say more on that issue - to change the situation in mid-stream, as it were, involving the 27,000 or 28,000 lessees without breach of agreement! If in fact that were done the Crown would face substantial financial claims through that change in mid-stream. 
It may well be argued, of course, that it may in those terms never be possible to change the 20-year cycle. However this is of genuine concern to people including residents in Canberra and I .think it is something which should be looked at; it has been considered by the .Department of the Interior. Shorter term re-appraisals could be made in theory, and could be made in practice with considerable difficulty and cost, but they would not. totally obviate some problems which we find to be of  a  more complex kind if we analyse them further. But just in brief,  a  shorter term system of re-appraisals would still leave one or two central problems unresolved. That is to say, the level of rent would still have to be fixed. By what means would this be done? Who would do it? Would it be based on unimproved or improved values? Do we take into consideration development costs and so on? The possibilities would appear to be just the same for inequities as they are at least in kind, if not in degree, at the present time. 
I turn now to the question of speculation in unimproved land. It is not possible under a leasehold system with the Crown as the only owner and subdivider. and a Crown which denies resale before development covenants are met. The problem and the worry that in fact this opens up a wholesale speculative land system of the worst kind, I do not believe, with the best will in the world, are well founded. The Government offers residential land at cost on, 1 believe, a current average of about $2,700. None ought to be able to buy cheaper than that. It can be argued that anything less than the basic current average cost of the land - the basic cost - would in fact represent a subsidy to those people possessing it by all the other taxpayers. As has been mentioned many times in this place, I think there is a fairly general opinion that people in Canberra are not very badly off in the Australian context. 
Another point among the objections and suggestions that have been made is the question of unearned increments. Clearly, under the conditions we have talked about - and everyone can observe - there will be an increasing valuation put on the land. Because one is not necessarily doing anything with it it is therefore called an unearned increment. This is something which is central to the thesis and the problem of the Henry George League. The unearned increment on land value should in their terms accrue to the community and not to individuals. 
At this stage I must fall back on Professor Arndt who gets into an area of economics which is just a little bit beyond my normal capacity for the field. The Professor suggests that land rent of 5 per cent per annum on unimproved valuation would capture at most one-third of the unearned increment assuming a return of the order of 10 per cent on the land in the Australian Capital Territory. In practice, in fact, it would be a lesser return on unearned increment because of a lag in revaluation, particularly at the 20 years cycle interval. Therefore, taxing away all the unearned increment would in fact need a tax of the order of 100 per cent on accrued or realised capital gains in the matter of land, and that of course obviously becomes " somewhat nonfunctional. So the plot thickens, as it were. 
On further examination, most of these objections appear to ' be not very easy of resolution, or they appear to be not nearly as formidable and detrimental to the public interest as some people would suggest. Most of all - or often enough in the whole debate on this matter inside and outside of the House - it has been argued that leases should not be charged for. The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory earlier in the day said flatly that one does not sell leases. I must correct the honourable gentleman by saying that one does sell leases. Leases are sold in many parts of the world. I need not bore the House by trying to develop a list of countries in which leases are sold. It is just not true that a charge for leases is against the rules. There is nothing in fact in the leasehold concept which requires that the leases be free. The crucial matter is retention of Crown ownership. Therefore, any speculation, or would-be speculation, depends on that point - on the fact that the Crown does not relinquish its base stake in the land. 
If the auction system is not used how then do we dispose of land? This point has already been raised in correspondence. Some form of what will undoubtedly be called bureaucratic allocation will certainly have to operate if in fact the auction system and the price factor do not come into the act. In fact, the auctioning of land provides revenue for the Commonwealth to finance development and thereby, I thought, would be seen to be quite a good thing by honourable members opposite as well as honourable members on this side of the House. 
A premium is paid for auctioned leases. This includes, as does most land which is purchased, an anticipated appreciation. Anyone who is buying land and wanting to use it for his own purposes - not just for the purpose of just buying and selling - does tend to think in terms of an appreciating value of that land. I would again like to quote Professor Arndt and say that some of the unearned increment is taxed away in advance. Probably more effective than land rent is the system of doing that. The drawback, of course, of the auction system - and I do not think that anyone can deny this - is that those with smaller means are disadvantaged as in any system which require* the use of money in any shape or form. In the competition for the finite quantity of land, the people who do not have as much as some others clearly are not as well placed to compete for that land. At the same time there are not too many people in Canberra who cannot afford the price asked, which is so much less than in other places of comparable size and function. This can also be seen as a capital tax. Because this system tends to fall more heavily on the relatively affluent element I would have thought that the Opposition would consider that this was a good thing. Further, against the argument that none of the capital gains should go to private leaseholders but all should go to the community as a whole is the fact that the possibility of gain provides an incentive to use the land economically. That, I think, is a fairly simple and observable operation. 
There are finally, rather penultimately, other matters about which I think I have less conviction and against which I would probably place some question marks. The deductibility of rates for income tax as against land rents which are not deductible causes me some slight concern. That, I think, needs to be administered in an appropriate way. We should take account of the fact that it is a benefit to the leaseholders by virtue of the simple fact that they can deduct their rates from gross taxation submissions. I believe that people are genuinely concerned about the question of rent versus rates. They believe that the charge should be called what it is. They are unhappy that what in effect could be said to be a land rent is called a rate. It is imperative that in this system the appropriate level of rates be charged. If the rates are charged on a lesser level we would have a situation where we would be subsidising the people of Canberra to the detriment of those who are subsidising. I believe that that would not be just. 
It seems to me that, so far as I can find figures, it is not true that this change in system is subsidising business people as against the residential people. I understand that business holds about 3 per cent of the leases and is paying about 42 per cent of the rates under this system. That compares with about a 35 per cent contribution under the previous system. So I believe that there is no case to answer. At least the Opposition has not proved its case of' some urgency concerning this matter. Clearly there are one or two matters which need to be properly handled and, as with most systems of administration - whether it concerns land or anything else - the operation of the system is just as important as the system itself. 
The honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  in a commendable maiden speech summarised this Bill by saying that it safeguards dissent; it allows the right to demonstrate; and it draws the line at violence. I believe that that was a proper summary of the intent of this Bill. The former Attorney-General, whose baby this Bill is, said this amongst other things: 
Calls in support of the right to dissent must be heeded, but they must not  be allowed to  deteriorate into attacks upon the proper rights and liberties of other people. 
I do not believe that any honourable member opposite could reasonably disagree with that summary. I would like for a few minutes at least to talk about what I believe to be, as those gentlemen opposite do, the underpinnings of this Bill, that is to say, the right to dissent and, of course, the implication of how that right shall be channelled and, where necessary, controlled. 
I doubt whether there is any member of this House who would not agree that one of the fundamental democratic rights is that of dissent. In the public arena dissent follows disagreement with the decisions of those in authority - or at least it should. Those in authority are normally elected to office by a majority of the people or are selected or appointed by those who are elected. Providing elections are free and the interval between them is not unreasonably fong, there is little justification for attempts to wrest authority from the ballot box. This is an issue on which we have heard very little from honourable members opposite. There is an assumption that somehow the Australian public is deprived of the right to express itself. I think the people who hold that view very much denigrate their own status in the matter. 
There are of course many forms of dissent. The genuine and intelligent dissenter, in my view, offers reasoned argument in favour of his dissenting view. He gives his opponents a hearing in the belief that truth is arrived at by discussion. The agitator, the malcontent, the anti-democrat, shouts his opponents down with slogans. The genuine democrat submits to a constituted authority even though he dislikes most of its representatives and believes that most of their decisions are mistaken. He recognises that law and order are not a threat to civilised values but are their foundation. He knows that physical disruption and violence are not the means of influencing the decisions of governments but the short road through anarchy to despotism. 
Federally, as will be well known here, legislative authority is vested in this House. We hear little from honourable members opposite about the fact that a check on the authority and judgment of this House is the authority and judgment of the Senate. We hear even less of the fact that honourable members opposite would abolish the Senate if they could. In other words - or in my words, if you like - those who sit opposite translate the word 'authority' as 'authoritarian'. This is a strange thing, as for those in the Australian Labor Party organisation dictation and external influence are common experiences. On the other hand, if the Liberal Party - I cannot speak so well for our colleagues in the Country Party - has a fault of this kind it is that almost everybody has a say, irrespective of credentials. In fact, you do not need to join the permissive society if you are in the Liberal "Party; you are in it already. I would like to point out that while great internal freedom can bring certain inefficiencies, it is a source of great strength. 
I wonder sometimes whether it has ever crossed the minds of honourable members opposite that one of the reasons for the long-standing governmental position of the Liberal Party in Australia in the federal sense is the great internal flexibility which permits of a great variety of viewpoints. "Liberal philosophy and practice accent the individual, his rights or her differences. It is somewhat ironic that the Australian "Labor Party, which emphasises the State and its controls, should accuse the LiberalCountry Party Government of disinterest in individual liberty. I cannot say more :strongly on any point than that the suggestion by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and others that Australian society represses dissenting views is in general nonsense. Many politicians, including myself, from time to time envy the free television and Press exposure that some dissenters obtain irrespective of their credentials, irrespective of their training and irrespective of those who support them, if any. The depth of their thinking rarely repays the compliment of their exposure to the public at large. 
It is easy to dissent out of ignorance and emotionalism. It is -much -more demanding to work constructively for change within the system. Authority is not power; authority carries responsibility. With those people whom those opposite often appear to be backing - and in this debate certainly are - much power is exercised anonymously with the individual powermonger hiding within a group. Sometimes I sympathise with their problem because they do not always know who their genuine friends are within that group. On the other hand, democratic authority is identifiable and often identified and responsible to an electorate. Dissident power has no such elective base and no public check to its aims except that of constituted authorities, in other words the Parliament and the law. I do not believe that the general view - although it varies from member to member, of course - as expressed by those opposite is more aptly or succintly expressed than by the poet W. H. Auden. He put it this way: 
In semi-literate countries demogogues pay court to teenagers. 
Another viewpoint on the same thing was expressed in a letter to a journal within the last year or so. It stated: 
I went to college to change myself and not the world. In doing so T achieved freedom from ignorance and a modicum of knowledge. 
I wish the same could be said for some of those contributing to this debate. 
 I will exclude you from that. Again I would like to mention one or two of the words of the former AttorneyGeneral, the man whose baby this Bill is. I believe that he believes what he said and his actions hitherto indicate that that is so. In the opening part crf his speech he said: 
In a democracy, every citizen should be free, -within limits imposed by laws designed to strike a reasonable balance between conflicting interests, to give expression to his views or to his sentiments by the process of peaceful assembly. It must be recognised that the right to dissent carries with it, as one of its aspects, a right to use that process. 
I will quote no more from the speech of the former Attorney-General but he had other things of a similar kind to say. I wonder what the sponsorship of those opposite - and I think it fair to say by Australian Labor Party members at large - of demonstrations in fact demonstrates. To me it underlines their own inefficacy. Surely if we have arraigned against us here parliamentarians of a determined and demonstrable quality exerting influence in their electorates and in this Parliament by their arguments, they will not find it necessary, as the honourable member for Lalor in particular does, to advocate that power should exist in the streets. I do not object to people demonstrating if that is the way they want to draw attention to issues. But I certainly object the moment they transgress the rights of individuals who want to move about and go about their normal business. The suggestion that this sort of thing is the only way in which public attention can be drawn to certain issues is an absolute fabrication. 
As 1 mentioned earlier in passing, we have not heard discussed the fact that we have one of the shortest inter-electoral terms in the world - 3 years between elections. I understand very well the frustrations of those honourable members opposite who have failed twice in recent history to become the Government on the issue of Vietnam. I worked long and hard to unseat a government that had been in power for 35 years. I know some of the satisfactions experienced when a government is exchanged for your own crew. Nevertheless, I believe that there is a responsibility on those honourable members opposite to assess their own standing, their own status, the status of this Parliament and to limit their encouragement of demonstrations. In other words, I do not believe it should be necessary for the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  to argue that he is in quite a fix as a lawyer - any lawyer would be - because he does not know how to advise intending demonstrators where to stop. It would seem to me that in the case of anybody whose intentions are merely to draw attention to an issue on which he believes he has a difference with the Government, it should only be necessary for him and his supporters to form a group that can be seen and to wave banners if they think it is necessary. It should not be necessary to attack anybody who is a duly constituted authority and thereby bring upon themselves the sometimes misplaced judgment of the police. 
I am fully aware that sometimes the police exceed their authority. They are only human, and some of them might even be somewhat less than that. That is not their fault individually. They are as they are made. I do not think that anybody would hold the view that police mentality or training is generally designed towards a sort of soft or pansy response to people who are in fact attacking them in a physical sense. I am also aware that some of the apparent over-reactions of the police are caused by the unseen spike applied to the hindquarters of the policeman's horse, and things of that nature. Therefore it becomes very difficult to assess when the police are reacting and when they are over-reacting. 
I have mentioned on another occasion the recent publication by  Mr Buckley  of the book 'Offensive and Obscene' which draws attention to a number of civil liberties cases which have been conducted in Australia. On the whole he makes out several cases which are quite telling in respect of the fact that the police sometimes treat members of the public in a manner which they do not deserve. Those who feel it is. necessary to use violence are equally culpable. I refer not merely to people gathering in groups to wave banners but to those who throw things, whether they are lethal or something less than that. I do not believe that during the course of this debate honourable members opposite have raised on many occasions the question of just where they believe a demonstration should start or stop. The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory said words to the effect that the law does not lay down how far one can go before one is pulled up in the legal sense. I cannot see that it is necessary for the law to provide a handbook on how far one can demonstrate before running foul of the law. Surely the individual training, sense of responsibility, if they have any, and attitude of those involved in mass demonstrations should be the control which exerts itself. Of course, I have to expect from those remarks that if there was a blatant misuse of authority by the police or someone of that nature, quite clearly people will react to that, just as the police may react to such a situation. But the simple answer is that if demonstrations are totally non-violent and the participants move on and do not camp and fo' not interrupt the normal processes of other people, the amount of conflict will be minimal. 
Perhaps we might examine further the reasons for the introduction at all of a Bill such as this. We are faced with a fundamental difficulty in our democratic way of life. Democracy in its best sense is in fact a permissive society. It allows the individual to talk and to act within a wide range of possibilities - short of doing physical harm and sometimes verbal harm in a very hurtful way to his neighbours. But one of the weaknesses of this permissiveness and of the liberalism of our democratic way of life- certainly as expressed in this country - is that it does not crack down on those who are not playing the game. Not just the ones who want to exercise certain liberty, but those who really want to flout the system are not very readily cracked down on as they would be in monolithic and totalitarian societies. 
There is a present frame of mind - very widespread in the world at large and certainly in this country, and probably most notably publicised in America, if not best expressed there - of anti-authoritarianism. We or our fathers or some generation or other which is held to be culpable have allowed the situation to develop in which there is not a great deal of discipline. Discipline' is a bad word. Children get all sorts of material things, including motor cars, by the age of 17 years or so and there is not very much left for them to get when they start their working lives, their really earning lives. I could go on at length, but I hope I will be understood insofar as I have taken this matter. This whole thing leads to a freedom of young people which is very nice in itself, but it is not essentially a disciplinary way of life. By that I do not mean authoritarian; I mean a selfdisciplining way of life. So now we have this general ethos that authoritarianism in its best sense - not in its dictatorial sense or its nasty sense or anything like that - is a bad thing. We have the difficulty that anti-authoritarianism exploits true democracy. Both the strength and the weakness of democracy - and, as I suggested earlier, both the strength and the weakness of the Liberal Party structure - are that the system allows freedom of a very considerable kind by world standards. 
But the system can also be exploited by those who wish to take advantage of that freedom. 
I should like to make one other point certain. Having been brought up on something akin to the work ethic which is recognised in American society rather than in this one, and believing that there is no substitute for hard work in learning about what you are doing, about society, about other people and about achieving things, I believe that not all but a great number of our demonstrating friends are taking the easy way out. I have talked at some length with some of them. Some of them have been students of mine. While I have been impressed by their sincerity, I have been equally impressed by the fact - they have said so - that they do not want to sit around for 2, 3 or 10 years working for the Australian Labor Party or the Liberal Party or forming their own party by the constituted methods that we follow. They want to take a short cut. They want to walk out into the street, make a lot of fuss and expect the country to change overnight. This is absolutely ridiculous as a concept, and these people only show their immaturity by thinking that by this means they will convert people who have put in long hard hours in trying to change a system little by little and in trying to get the best out of a system which is still the best system in the world by any demonstrable standard. I hope that we get improvement, but the plain fact of the matter is that with a great number of those people who seek physical expression of their usually immature views, but not entirely so, demonstrating is a very easy short cut as compared with hard work and application. 
I have only one or two other comments to make. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  asked us who are the people of violence in this community. I think I have suggested before that the only people of violence in this community are those who seek to wield their influence by physical means instead of by reason and work. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in a typically well reasoned speech - it was much better reasoned than many of the speeches of his colleagues - drew our attention to the fact that a great deal of legislation in England over the years has been conducted by men of ageing character - certainly by older men. He said that the problem may be the same here. It is obvious that the problem, if it is one, will be the same here. It is obvious that people who have gained experience, knowledge and a modicum of wisdom are likely to be the people in control. They do not need capitalism to keep them there, even though I would have to agree with a previous  speaker  who said that that might help. But the fact of the matter is that as one gains in maturity and experience one is likely to hold the wheel of power. 
Finally, I can only say that the sentiments of the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  distressed me. He absolutely contradicted himself at one stage in his speech. In his opening remarks he said that this Bill will stimulate disorder, and towards the end of his speech he said that it will not even do much to condition the atmosphere. I hope, when he considers the matter further, he makes up his mind as to whether this legislation is as bad as he first thought it was. I would disagree totally with him that more order and more restriction, as he sees it, in a general context of increasing liberty will stimulate violence. Order is increasingly needed in a society which grows more complex and more populous. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  chooses to talk about potential strikes on a national basis in response to real or assumed provocation by this Government or some other body. In the process thereof he draws our attention to the great good works of the Australian Council of Trade Unions in, as he called it, lifting the current shipping strike in relation to Tasmania. That is a grave overstatement of the position. I wish to talk about the effect of interstate shipping, and in particular interstate non-shipping, on the island State of Tasmania. I make it clear that I much prefer to espouse causes than to join bandwagons, political or otherwise, and I hope it will be taken as indicative of the fact that I believe this to be an entirely worthy cause that I raise the matter now. It affects not only the electors of Denison but the whole of the Tasmanian population. 
The present situation is that the totally irresponsible strike of the Marine Stewards and Pantrymen's Union has brought about a position of almost total isolation, by surface transport, of the island of Tasmania. The fact that there has been a temporary release of a couple of ships to bring essential goods to the island is only a drop in the ocean, as it were. The question remains that in a week or so large scale unemployment will be experienced in no uncertain fashion in Tasmania if this strike action is to continue its effects. I say this is an irresponsible action, and I think that there is no fear of contradiction in that matter. I do not want to take time now to go into the work provisions of the shipping stewards concerned in this matter, but people on this side of the House and probably many on the other side will take a lot of convincing that there is any grave need so far as they are concerned. 
The island State of Tasmania is totally dependent upon shipping for its surface transport connections. As honourable members will well know, only a small proportion of freight is possible of movement economically and even physically by air transport. So the absence of road and rail transport leaves Tasmania, as is well known, totally dependent upon its surface shipping transport. The effects are not passing effects of strikes such as that at the moment and of other disruptions from time to time in the interstate shipping service. The effects are profound and lasting. Not only is production in Tasmania impeded and inhibited but even the supplies of essential commodities at this point of time are declining and wanting. For example, supplies of materials such as nitrous oxide, which is used in anaesthetics, ammonia, which is used  ,a  cool stores in the apple industry, and chlorine used in drinking water purification are running down in the island of Tasmania at the moment as a direct result of this irresponsible industrial action. 
I hope that 1 have established in short measure the dependence of Tasmania on its shipping. The question is: How do we solve this problem in the long term? It clearly is easy to propose, and I think a very good case could be made for it, a Commonwealth subsidy for Tasmanian shipping. I previously have put such a case to the former Prime Minister and the forme: Minister for 
Shipping and Transport. They were not prepared at that stage to accept the possibility. Such a subsidy, of course, would tend to create precedents of a kind that could be put forward equally by some of the far flung corners of the continental mainland part of Australia, for example, the further parts of Queensland, the Northern Territory or Western Australia. 
But 1 would argue in this regard that the total absence of other surface transport alternatives makes Tasmania's position unique. Furthermore, it is operating, or trying to operate, as a State entity whereas these other areas, remote though they might be from the main axis of economic activity in Australia - the Sydney-Melbourne axis - are nevertheless parts of State entities which can take into cognisance their relationships with the States themselves. But Tasmania is entirely an island and any part of it has the same share as the whole in the problem of Bass Strait separating Tasmania from the larger island of mainland Australia. The question of subsidy for shipping to Tasmania can be put then on the basis that Commonwealth money aplenty is involved in beef roads in the Northern Territory, Queensland and Western Australia. There have been considerable railroads built with Commonwealth assistance, for example, the Mount Isa railway. I forget the exact figure but I think the Commonwealth involvement was $50m. I believe that a valid case can be put for regarding as a direct equivalent the possibility for a continuing subsidy for surface shipping to Tasmania. 
There are other aspects of the matter. I do not suggest that in this Tasmania should merely have its hand out and be hoping for Commonwealth assistance without doing anything itself. The question of freight rates was raised last year at length and was considered in some depth by the commercial people of Tasmania and by others dependent upon their effective operations. That is a question that I do not want to go into now but which I think is at least a twosided question. The present Senate committee investigation into freight rates as they relate to Tasmanian shipping may provide answers which are a little more specific than those hitherto worked on. However, there is a question of rationalisation of the ports within Tasmania. In some respects Tasmania is in the happy position of having a decentralised population by Australian standards. It has at least 3 major ports on the northern coastline and one, Hobart, in the south. Therefore there is a problem of rationalisation as to just which ports of call should be taken into account when we are talking about shipping between the mainland of Australia and the island of Tasmania. However, this is a matter which is being thought of. 
I would like to go on to say that Tasmania's achievement in the past 50 years or so in maintaining its economic viability should not be overlooked. I draw to the attention of honourable members that Tasmania, with about 3 per cent of Australia's population, has within a few decimal points or so maintained fairly constantly 3 per cent of the Australian industrial population since the beginning of industrialisation in Australia, certainly since federation. That, of course, has been substantially on the basis of hydro-electric developments and the attractiveness of cheap power to some major industries. But this is something which is becoming increasingly hard to maintain, and even the maintenance of industries which are already there becomes increasingly difficult in the light of these shipping problems and in particular the irresponsible actions of the kind to which I referred earlier. 
There are other possibilities than subsidising shipping to Tasmania. One begins to wonder whether in the light of the operations of the Australian waterfront and, perhaps one should say, in the light of the apparent weaknesses from time to time of some of the shipping companies, not just in Tasmania but generally, in dealing with this problem, as I think  Mr Alan  Reid mentioned in an article a week or so ago, one could make a very good case, wherever the weakness or irresponsibility lies, for thinking of re-attaching Tasmania to the Australian mainland. It is only 11,000 years since it was so attached and Aboriginals walked across the land bridge that then existed. The rise in sea level of some 300 feet which drowned Bass Strait still leaves it a shallow body of water. I seriously put forward the proposition that it is within the region of engineering and technological competence, even if it is thought to be rather high-flown financially, to bridge Bass Strait, perhaps at a cost of several hundred million dollars, or alternatively to tunnel, or to do both, thereby permanently linking this island State with the mainland and obviating the continually recurring problem of shipping irresponsibility and the shipping depenence of Tasmania. 
Finally, I would add one other comment. In the continuing development of container ports throughout the country there will be only  2  or  3  places in Australia which can be considered viable for container termini development when container ships reach capacities of several hundred thousand tons or something of that order. One such place is the estuary of the Huon River south of Hobart in southern Tasmania. If it were developed in the way in which some such port in Australia will need to be developed, with increasing congestion in Sydney and Melbourne tending to put those ports further away from being a viable proposition in this regard, I believe that the proposals that I have already spoken of would be even more to the point in the tying of Tasmania's economy to the national economy or, if you like, tying the national economy to that of Tasmania. I have only a couple of seconds left so I reiterate. . . . 
Will the Treasurer inform the House whether the reduction in the yield on treasury notes announced in the Treasury statement last week can properly be interpreted as a change in the Government's attitude to interest rates in general? 
I ask the Minister for Education and Science whether he is aware that despite means-tested Commonwealth scholarships, students from rural areas attending universities are at a financial dis advantage compared with their urban counterparts. Is the Minister aware that the proportion so affected is probably higher in Tasmania than elsewhere? Will he examine the possibility of either eliminating or reducing the relative disadvantage involved? 
My question to the Minister for Labour and National Service is supplementary to that asked earlier by the honourable member for Balaclava. Is the Minister aware that in addition to the enormous and regrettable cost of the ship stewards' strike and its disruption of the Tasmanian economy it is estimated to have cost the ship owners $14m so far? Does he find this situation and its origins compatible with the consistent complaint of honourable members opposite that our industrial firms make excessive profits and that the Government spends too little on various community services such as education? 
We appear to be ringing the changes on these 2 cognate Bills. I want to speak mainly on the Bill concerning technical education. I hope not to be very long because I do not feel that this Bill requires a great exhibition of fervour in relation to the matters which are involved. However, under this Bill we are talking about 400,000 students who are involved in technical education in Australia. Of that number something like 8,000 students are in 11 or 12 colleges in Tasmania. 
I think it is fair to say, as was very thoroughly explored, if not said in the same words by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  that technical education in the history of Australian education has been a very decided poor relation. That fact has been recognised in recent years to the extent that we have now a continuing programme of assistance to the field of technical education. But there certainly remains a situation which I think is of vital consequence to this country; that is,  a  situation wherein the untrained man has probably never been at a greater disadvantage. 
Given the fact that not everyone either has the capacity or the will, even if the physical means are there, to take on what is normally called an academic line of training, the importance of technical training assumes an even greater role in our total educational spectrum. I think the honourable member for Fremantle was very right in drawing attention to the origins of our educational philosophy and the fact that we follow far more the English line of thinking and training than in fact the Scots. It may or may not be that our lack of history of educational development in the technical field stems from that choice or following of origins. However, the situation remains that we have a continuing, and certainly not lessening, need for training in this field. 
The honourable member for Fremantle raised a number of social issues of quite wide connotation which depend on that particular discussion of philosophy and origins which I do not wish to explore at this time although they might well be explored during some other debate. The need for technical skills I think is not merely one in which we need to train people to do particular jobs of a largely physical nature in a skilful way. Certainly, that is necessary, as I do not think we could reasonably claim that this country has a tradition of very skilful workers with their hands. The best workers of this type that we have had lived a long time ago and probably put up some of the very fine stone buildings that we find in parts of this country, notably in Tasmania. These workmen were skilled in crafts which have practically long since gone. This is the sort of thing which has not been very much in the ethos of Australian education - certainly not at. these levels - in recent times. It is not only a need to work machines well or to learn new fields such as electronics and that sort of thing. There is also a need for those people coming in at the bottom level of technical training to develop both their skills and their personality capacity to become very good foremen. 
If honourable members opposite occasionally suggest that there is some lack of managerial skills in this country I think that we should at once identify  a  very decided lack of skills both of the sheerly technical kind and of those that can lead others at that level of operation in Australia. I believe that Australia is very much lacking in the capacity to get the best out of workmen of a basically skilled nature by their fellow workmen who are in a position of some authority and leadership. Therefore, anything we do in this sphere towards creating a greater pool of skills among the substantially working tradesman type of population from which can be drawn - and with greater possibility - good men to lead in these fields, T think, will be something very well done. 
Mention was made by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn)  in his second reading speech of the Tregillis Mission which went to Europe to look into the field of technical education. The mission's report, of course, is very comprehensive and long, and it makes interesting reading. It is one which I think the Minister suggested in his speech has not yet been possible to implement, but it has been widely viewed and studied by those in the appropriate areas. I look forward with some hope to at least the transfer of the knowledge which that report contains and to the possible adaptation of some of the things which it suggests; they hold considerable promise for the further development of technical education here. 
In connection with this Bill I should like to put on record the fact that in Tasmania 2 colleges currently are involved in the total moneys made available under the Bill. The figure involved totals for Tasmania about $ 1.14m and it concerns 2 schools in the third and fourth population centres of the island. At Burnie a figure of about $1.3m from the previous period is involved and tenders are to be called next month for the trade complex at the Burnie Technical College. I think that tenders for the site works have been let already. Funds are available for consultants in the further development of this college. At Devonport $601,500 has been expended on the first stage which has been completed and is now occupied. The second stage is about to commence and about $430,000 of funds is involved. The second stage is expected to be completed in January 1972. 
While in some areas of education we can report difficulties of implementing plans to spend the money available, this is not so of those colleges in Tasmania. In fact I am happy to report that administrative and programming difficulties are either non-existent or minimal. Everything is going well and the local authorities are happy with these 2 particular developments. I understand that this is at some variance with the general implementation of technical education grants which the Government has made available over the past 7 or so years. In fact I believe that the main difficulty in the implementation of this programme has not been the lack of funds, as honourable members opposite sometimes suggest, but is related to the capacity of the States to plan a programme of construction in such a way that progress on their various projects and, consequently, expenditure from the funds available are maintained at an even and appropriate level throughout the triennium or the period involved. It is rather nice to see that in Tasmania that problem is not being met. 1 shall say no more at this stage about the field of technical education other than that it is clearly a deserving field. The increase from $10m to $12m per annum for the States as a whole is to be commended and I hope it will continue to produce the skills which are so needed. 
Pre-school education opens up a considerable field for social commentary. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  already has spoken on that front. I have no intention of taking him up on his comments point by point, nor do I propose exploring the field of pre-school education from start to finish. Basic interest in this field arises from a growing body of evidence, of not very distant origin, which is showing with little doubt that children of the ages from 3 to 5 years have a far greater capacity to learn than was ever thought possible, in general terms at any rate, by the general public or, for that matter, by educationists. I found the penultimate remark - I think it was - of the honourable member for Hughes most interesting in this regard. He drew attention to the fact that in some areas overseas - I think he mentioned Great Britain particularly - there has been a change in training at this very low level from social to intellectual training. That, I think, is implied or should be implied in the whole concept of providing some degree of formal education at the pre-school level, but I wonder whether the honourable member for Hughes and others of his colleagues have taken their thinking any further on that particular front because, as I understand it, their counterparts in Britain, if not in the Australian Labor Party in Australia, have joined the ranks in championing the concept of comprehensive education. If comprehensive education stands for anything, in my view it stands for a considerable involvement in social training as well as, and sometimes in substitution for, intellectual training. I suggest that members opposite might take their thinking into the next level of education. If it is generally agreed that intellectual training is desirable at the 3. to 5-year-old level, I should think it very hard to make a case for any diminution in intellectual training at some higher level of education. That is not to gainsay that some degree of social involvement is not useful. The basic point is that young children, 3 to 5 years old, are capable intellectually and mentally of taking aboard a lot of reasonably formal training. By whatever skilful means that training may be transmitted they are, in fact, capable of learning a lot. 
The object of this Bill substantially is to provide teacher training for that purpose. The honourable member for Hughes questioned whether the Government thought that the whole area of pre-school education was good or bad. I do not know how rhetorical his question was meant to be but I should have thought that the very fact of the Government making available funds for this particular area of education, which has only recently been recognised as deserving of considerable government involvement, would have answered that question. The Government thinks that it is a good thing. He also asked questions about teachers for where and what. Perhaps if we opened up the whole field of pre-school education that would be fair comment. Clearly it is no good having teachers if there are no schools. It is worse to have schools with no teachers. I should have thought that in the general context of shortages, real and imagined, in the whole process of education questions about teachers would not require much answering in practical terms. It may be thought, and it still can be said, that the Government has not entered upon this field in as thoroughgoing a fashion as might be desirable. I think the same is true of any field of education at any time. 
It would be unfair to suggest that preschool education is other than a beginning field - a field which is just being developed for the reasons that I mentioned earlier. It does, of course, raise the major social issue of just where children aged between 3 and 5 years can best be trained. A number of members from both sides of the House have expressed the view in passing, or more centrally, from time to time that it is difficult to find a substitute for the home. It is also well established - and probably increasingly so as time passes and educational psychology develops - that the mother is the central figure in a young child's life and if she has the capacity to transmit not only love and affection but also something of a basically intellectual kind, so much the better. But the plain fact remains that not all mothers are, at least in any formal sense, capable of transmitting, much less trained to transmit, in any sort of defined area in any meaningful, efficient or educational sense, a body of information equivalent to the capacity of her child, or for that matter somebody else's child, to absorb. Hence a case can be made, irrespective of one's social attitudes in this matter, for some body of formalised pre-school education. This, as we have said earlier, is recognised and it is obviously something which will develop further. I think, however, that I would prefer to leave this to another time and perhaps to a debate on a somewhat slightly different Bill. The question at large of social attitudes and social influences in this area can, of course, open up a whole gamut of possibilities between the wholesale creches of the Soviet Union and our hitherto held concept of a young child's place being in the home with the mother. I commend both these Bills to the House as, in fact, the Minister has long since done. 
I speak with slightly more notice than my colleague the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  whom I compliment for raising an extraordinary wide range of relevant topics in relation to this Bill. However, even though I may take up one or two of those he mentioned, the main purpose of this Bill is to provide for the award increases flowing from the national wage case as they affect university salaries. The second purpose is to make provision for alterations to recurrent grants to Australian universities. The question of university salaries of course raises a good deal of interest in the community, although perhaps less now than it did a few years ago mainly owing to the fact, I think, that the university salaries structure is reassessed somewhat more consistently or more frequently than it was once upon a time before the days of the Murray Committee. Also perhaps it is because there is a slight lessening of the anti-intellectual flavour of the Australian community to the point where there is an acceptance of what good works people in universities might do, in particular for the young people coming on and learning something. It may also be due to the fact that there is in general a greater degree of acceptability of some sort of training and education in the community at large. 
This Bill provides for salaries which could generally be said to be at a fairly high level in this community of ours. I think it should be borne in mind that the people receiving them have gone through a very considerable period of training, and while I might sound a little equivocal on this matter I think, basically speaking, that they are deserved. At the same time it has long been my opinion, having been fairly involved over a number of years in univer sity salary matters from that end of the proceedings and not from this, that there was in fact a discrepancy between the basic rates of salary, that is to say, for the permanent members of the staff or lecturers and the professors at the top end. It was always my opinion that the university people did themselves some disservice by arguing their case on the basis of professorial salaries because even now to some extent, and certainly so in the not very distant past, professorial salaries seemed to be very large in relation to many other avenues of employment in the community and, as is general with these things, it was not normally taken account of by the community at large even if people knew just what there was behind in terms of time input and training to justify those salaries. The community in many of its quarters was more inclined to think of the chap who happened to live down the street and could be seen to be mowing his lawn at 4 o'clock on a Wednesday afternoon. People therefore concluded that most members of university staffs seemed to work something like a 30-hour week, if that, and therefore were being considerably overpaid. 
They were not to know, perhaps, that many more people were probably working 60, 70 and even 80 hours a week, were in their laboratories and if not, their offices, on Sunday afternoons and Saturday mornings and various other times which the 9 to 5 element in the community did not regard as working hours. So, as I say, I might be a little equivocal in this and my feeling is that the levels of university salaries are probably not below what they ought to be at this time. At the same time I think it can well be argued that in terms of hours they are decidedly deserved. One can always take into question any system in which certain of its members appear to be having an easy time and in this regard I might point out that university employment is perhaps as much, if not more than any other avenue of the community, a matter of conscience. People give lectures in varying numbers at various set times but beyond that, apart from certain involvements in university commitments of one sort or another such as counselling students and attending meetings - and even they are usually not compulsory - it is a matter of conscience as to how much people put into the job. 
I can say from personal experience over a period of  12  years as a teacher and somewhat less as a student that in fact most people are justifying their existence in relation to things such as these salaries. However, it is a widely flexible sort of thing and it is not fair therefore to judge the position on the basis of somebody who appears not to be working from  9  to  5.  There is one particular thing to which I would like to draw attention here and that is in the structure of these salaries. It is something to which I drew attention over many years and relates to the point I have just made about the usual university case being made on the professorial salary basis which I believe to be politically unwise. The point is that I suppose there is no area of employment, of occupation or involvement in the community where the junior member of the organisation so nearly approaches in his time input and even in his input of expertise the amount which is put in at the top. 
If one becomes an employee of a commercial firm or a public service a great deal of store is put on one's expertise and the length of time one has spent learning one's job. That position also applies in universities, but I think it applies probably less deservedly there than elsewhere. These days a person who has done  3  or  4  years of undergraduate training and who has at least one postgraduate degree, which is now the norm, and usually at the doctorate level - that is, he has done  7, 8  or maybe even more years of unpaid training, unless he was lucky enough to be partly supported by a scholarship - is then in a position to teach other people and to carry on research which, by employment contract and as a matter of conscience, are his dual functions. Apart from administrative duties, the duties and many of the responsibilities - certainly the basic ones of teaching and research - of a junior lecturer, if he is of any use - he is not likely to be appointed if he is not - very closely approximate those of his professor. At the present time it may be a case of his two or three professors. 
Therefore I think a very good case can be made - I have made it over many years, as I say, from the other end - for the maximum possible condensation of the salary structure of university teachers. As I say, I am speaking at fairly short notice. A quick calculation suggests to me that the pro posed salary of a senior lecturer is  73  per cent of the proposed professorial salary. I would argue that a case can be made to close that gap considerably, possibly to the extent of making the senior lecturer's salary  85  per cent of the professorial salary. These days the senior lecturer's scale of salary is roughly the career grade. Perhaps it is tending towards the level of a reader or an associate professor; nevertheless most university teachers will not rise above the grade of senior lecturer, however long they stay in the field of teaching and research. I believe that, in terms of their duties, their faculty input and their work in the university at large - whether it be on the council, of the faculties, advising students or whatever it may be - a very good case can be made for the salary of a senior lecturer to approximate, say,  85  per cent of the professorial level. The same argument would apply, in commensurate degree, down the various gradings. 
Therefore I believe, as I have said briefly in this House before, that in terms of maintaining and sustaining university teachers of high quality training and achievement, it is more important to pay competitive salaries at the bottom of the lecturer scale than to grant grandiose salaries - adequate salaries cannot be denied, but certainly inflated salaries should not be contemplated - at the top levels. I do not believe that we will lose, by the brain drain, international competition or whatever else it may be called, our top men who have become integrated and au fait with the system and who like their work, as almost universally they do. I suppose that in that sense they are lucky because they are doing things they want to do and, to a substantial degree, they can select what they want to do, whether it be the courses they teach or the research they undertake. But, with these compensations aside, I suggest that the difficulty is to obtain sufficiently qualified fellows at the bottom of the scale rather than to hold the very well versed fellows at the top. So if in the future any variation or rearrangement is to be made of the salary structure for universities, my strong plea is that we ensure that the bottom level salaries are at least competitive with those paid in alternative forms of employment, whether that employment be in industry, with the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial 
Research Organisation or with similar governmental institutions. After that is done I think the situation will take care of itself. 
My friend the honourable member for Angas made some passing reference to study leave, which a long time ago was by no means a right. Over recent years this has become a right in the universities of Australia, but only after being argued for quite considerably. It involves a year's leave on full pay after each 6 years of employment. To some people this sounds like a great holiday, but to those who are doing their job, which again I would suggest is most, it means a year in which to keep in touch with developments around the world in one's particular field of expertise and to find out at first hand what the other fellow is doing, perhaps most notably in North America and Britain. Depending upon the field in which one is engaged - one might be concerned with international relations, undeveloped countries or some other field* - one might need to range more widely into areas or fields which are not so well tried in the academic sense, that is, areas which are not as longstanding as leading academic areas of the world. 
I have probably said all I need say in relation to that aspect of the Bill. However, there is one other aspect that I believe I should not ignore. This Bill provides for the Commonwealth contribution to the salaries of those engaged in basic permanent academic teaching and research, that is, lecturers, senior lecturers, associate professors or readers and professors. In this second reading speech the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn)  said that the Commonwealth will contribute:   the following levels and proportionately for the junior academic staff. 
Of course, the junior academic staff includes many people in what is something of a twilight zone. They are below the lecturer level which is the basic level of permanent academic appointment. People in that staff include demonstrators, teaching fellows and people of that order. As I say, for some years they have been in what is essentially a twilight zone. They have not been tied automatically to Commonwealth and State increases in university salaries as they occur every 3, 4 or 5 years, as from  Mr Justice  Eggleston or anybody else. They have been in  a  difficult position which stems partly from the matter of university definition itself. 
As one moves from university to university one finds that the categorisation and duties of people who are known as demonstrators or teaching fellows vary from State to State and from university to university. In some places it could well be argued that they tend to be imposed upon, being stand-in lecturers who are paid at a lower rate. In other places there may be an enlightened attitude towards them, in which case they tend to have a fair amount of time to spend on their research degree work and do relatively less teaching and practical work of demonstrating, which is done by the more senior people from lecturers up. So up to the present time these people have not been provided for adequately in terms of automatic increases in their salary status in the university structure. I think it is incumbent upon the universities to sort that matter out as best they can by means of the ViceChancellor's Committee or by some other means. Perhaps it is also incumbent upon the Commonwealth, through the Department of Education and Science, to see whether we can get some rationalisation of that situation as soon as possible so that the danger is smaller in relation to these people who are not yet in permanent employment, who are budding professors and who have every suggestion of making good by doing the best they can. I believe that they should be reasonably paid for that development. 
I would just like to touch upon another aspect of this Bill which relates to variations in university recurrent grants. I take particular note of the matter which the Minister itemised concerning the introduction of a scheme of external studies at the University of Tasmania, which is to begin in 1971. This is a question in which I was involved over many years as a member of the arts faculty of that University. It is a question on which one can take up one of two positions. One can take up a political position in which one finds it very easy to say: 'By all means have as much external studies as possible at the University of Tasmania or any other university, notably that of the University of New England; or, alternatively, consider the position of the university, its size, its viability and its capacity to undertake these studies'. 
As I have said on previous occasions, the island of Tasmania has particular advantages and disadvantages in the degree of its decentralisation. People in Tasmania generally regard the matter of decentralisation in those two lights. They take advantage from it and they also tend to be less inured, if that is the right word, or less oriented to a metropolitan dominance as is the case in most other States, if not all. So there tends to be a feeling in, say, the city of Launceston and, to a lesser degree perhaps in the city of Burnie, that what is good for Hobart is good for other places. That leads to a feeling that if there is a University of Tasmania in Hobart, there is no reason why there should not be at least a university college in Launceston, Burnie or Devonport. That is a very nice feeling. It is a good, proud, educational developed-type feeling; but it is not necessarily an efficient, economic or even educationally efficient type of inclination. 
In terms of the possible employment ot its permanent staff in rushing up and down the island from Hobart to Launceston, the idea of an external studies course or courses does not greatly appeal to me. However, if the people who give those courses can be, as they are at present or as they are about to be, people in part time employment, not permanently on the University staff and resident and co-opted, as it were - resident in the city of Launceston in this case - then I think a lot of my objection is overcome. It provides for the people of Launceston or, if you like, more widely, the people of northern Tasmania, a more proximate capacity, in terms of distance, to take on first year university courses, in this instance, and to get the benefits from them. If that is so, without there arising any detriment to the general well being of the University or the overextension of the time input of its staff in rushing up and down the island, then  1  think it is a good thing. But I make that qualification. I do not believe, in its present state of staffing and its present need for development of its current faculties, and possibly the development of new ones or at least new schools, that the University of Tasmania can afford to have its permanent staff running off in other directions to give external studies courses. I believe it would be better to pay scholarship money, if necessary, for those students who are competent to go to the University of Tasmania in Hobart and take those courses there. The situation at present appears to be that the few lecturers concerned are being co-opted, as it were, from residency in Launceston and will be on the spot to give those courses. In that sense  1  wish them well. 
I believe that this Bill is in the best interests of the universities at large, despite my qualifications and what I have said in the last few minutes. I trust that we will manage, as time goes on, to make an automatic review every  3  years, or whatever it might be, of university salaries and to keep under notice these matters of university recurrent grants which are most deserving. 
Finally, the University of. Tasmania sees itself to be in considerable short fall in its recurrent grants. While a case may be made for some other areas of education which may be more deserving than the universities, I draw the attention of the Minister for Education and Science to that fact and to the recent pronouncements oi the Vice-Chancellor. I hope we will be able to remedy that situation in the forthcoming triennium. 
1 should like to show broad mindedness equal to that of my honourable friend from Wills  (Mr Bryant)  - to describe him as such - and take up the point which he has made concerning the question of external studies which is relevant to this Bill. It is true that on the surface it appears to be a very just work to make available external studies in various outlying centres to people who are resident well outside capital cities in whichever State they might live. But the superficiality of the situation needs to be looked at underneath. I think that if we investigate the matter more closely-this is something which on the whole has not been done - we will find that in some cases quite a number and even a majority of the people who are offering for external courses in outlying centres are people who have become teachers. Before doing so, they have attempted university courses on a full time basis and have failed. 
Nevertheless, my friend from Wills may wish to proceed with that operation but it is not the same operation as that undertaken by people who have passed some basic test or standard of entrance but who have failed in the first year or two of their course. By the decision of the institution or by their own decision they are excluded from continuing those courses. In other words a different standard of judgment is being applied. It may be a very humanitarian operation. It may be a helpful operation to the ultimate education of the community and, not least of all, if the people involved are teachers. But the fact remains - and as I say, the fact is not totally established in quantitative terms - that a great number of the people applying for university external courses have already had a go in the full time sense. 
One could make a case for not wishing to spend money unduly in that area, if in fact one believed one was short of money, in establishing alternative courses, new schools or whatever else is desirable, whether it be Asian studies or any other going business. The situation is not quite as simple as it looks, however desirable it may be to give every member of the community a chance and, if necessary, a second chance, at the possibility of university education. The opportunity still remains for other forms of tertiary education if the people concerned do not happen to prove themselves entirely adaptable to the particular demands of university classes and courses. I think that is the only point I need to make in response to the contribution of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  I trust it will be borne in mind when we are considering the extension of university courses in the future. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education and Science. Has the Minister seen the recent submission or report of the Australian Union of Students? Does he agree with the Union's contention that the number of university scholarships is inadequate? 
As the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  has pointed out, the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr 
Lynch) gave a clear exposition of these Bills in his second reading speech a day or two ago. I shall not repeat the bulk or, for that matter, any of what he said. While the honourable member for Newcastle drew attention to some of what he suggested was the justifiable causation of disruptions in the stevedoring industry, 1 think there are other things to be said about this line of employment. First of all let me draw attention to the specific matters which are covered by this increased charge in the stevedoring industry area. It is a levy on the stevedoring employers in respect of work performed by the waterside workers whom they employ. The purpose of the levy is to raise funds in 3 areas. 
The first area is to cover the long service leave scheme, the pension scheme and the industry redundancy scheme within the waterside industry. The second is to cover annual leave, sick leave, compassionate leave for casual employees, attendance money for casual employees who are available but not required to work at particular ports at particular times, and award and statutory holiday pay for casual employees. Thirdly, it is to cover administrative expenses of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority, including salaries and superannuation of staff, transport and transfer costs of waterside workers and capital costs, including amenities such as cafeterias for waterside workers. I think it is fairly well known in the broad that, as the honourable member for Newcastle suggested, conditions have improved considerably in the waterside industry, perhaps to the extent that some of us  believe that  probably nobody in the community is better served except perhaps the members of the Stewards and Pantrymen's Association of recent fame. 
I have itemised quite a series of provisions which I think nobody can deny are of the social and work service kind and which in times past have long been absent for workers in any category of industry. Given the situation as it is now, I do not think that anybody could maintain that the conditions were below par. The definition of forms of labour into permanent and casual employees and the further definition of ports into permanent and seasonal ports are great steps forward. However, that may be and the casual system as a whole having gone out of operation, we have a basically permanent waterside force which is considerably better served, it would appear from various figures, than it once was. 
Let me draw attention to the movement in earnings in the last couple of years for which figures are available to me. In 1967- 68 at permanent ports the waterside workers worked an average of 38.4 hours and received an average of $70.85. Two years later, in 1969-70, at permanent ports they worked 37.4 hours for an average of $81.65 gross earnings. That is not bad going. The honourable member for Newcastle was quite specific in what he said. I bow to his knowledge of the particular port to which he referred and to his greater involvement in these things than I have had or am likely to have. Nevertheless, when we take the total figures, irrespective of the conditions at the port of Newcastle or any other port, we find that the incidence of permanency, the reduction of casual labour, the increase in mechanisation and automation - in other words, the total rationalisation of the waterside work force - have not produced quite the results we might have expected from such propitious circumstances. 
Let me quote 2 or 3 more figures in terms of years, gross man hours worked and man hours lost through unauthorised stoppages. In 1955-56 the total man hours worked in the country was 38.8 million. The total man hours lost through unauthorised stoppages was 3.35 million, or 8.6 per cent of the total man hours worked. The situation has improved since those dastardly days, because in 1960-61 we had reached the point where 30.27 million man hours were worked and 1.19 million man hours were lost, which came down to 3.9 per cent of the total man hours worked. That was a great improvement over the mid-1950s. In 1964-65, to move ahead another 5 years or so, there were 31.8 million man hours worked and 1.19 million man hours lost through unauthorised stoppages, which represented 3.7 per cent of that year's labour. 
Let me turn now to the final year which I am able to take and which I think is the most important one in relation to what I am saying. One would imagine that with the implementation of permanency and the reduction of casual labour from 1969 onwards everything in the garden would be rosy, despite the problems at the port of Newcastle or anywhere else. One finds, however, that whilst 28.15 million man hours were worked 1.07 million man hours were lost, or 3.8 per cent of the total. This is the highest increase since 1960-61. It would appear overall that the great improvement in the conditions of the waterside work force is not reflected in the percentage of unauthorised stoppages taken over the total number of hours worked. That, to me, is a cause, if not for alarm, then certainly for some degree of unhappiness. 
The honourable member for Newcastle questioned, doubtless rightly, whether the best interests of the stevedoring industry were being served in terms of the movement of labour, port quotas and ships laying up. I would like to ask the further question whether those stoppages in that proportion - almost as large a proportion as honourable members opposite waste in divisions - are in the best interests of the people of Australia. Finally I would like to draw attention to the general purposes of these Bills, which are to increase the provisions under the Stevedoring Industry Charge Act and the Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment Act. It is important to bear in mind that the charge rates which were fixed back in 1967 have been held pretty much at those levels during a period in which costs have risen rapidly in the waterside industry. The increases which are now being covered by these Bills are necessary. They have come about because of an accumulation of arbitration decisions through the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission as well as through changes in wage rate structures and conditions of employment in the stevedoring industry. All of these have been awarded with the consent of the industry's employers and are not directly matters of governmental authority. They are award payments of one kind or another. I would like finally to join with the Minister and with the honourable member for Newcastle in suggesting the relevance and the desirability of the passage of this legislation, but I would like again to underline my qualifications of the general operations of the waterside industry 
I thank the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  for the few crumbs of time that he has allowed me. In fact I defer to his wide and, I presume, deep experience of this area about which we are talking. At the same time I think I shall have the temerity not to agree with all of his interpretations. Some of the things that he said in fact incline me to change the emphasis of what T wanted to say. In particular I take up the question of fragmentation. I think I heard the honourable member aright to say that there were worse things than fragmentation. Perhaps he is correct. But he went on to draw analogies and parallels of a geographical and historical kind with other areas around the world which had come to self-government in recent history. Some of the examples that he took - certainly one or two of them - indicate the contrary to the point that he made. I think that they are relevant to New Guinea. The honourable member pointed particularly to Pakistan as an example of what can happen. What has happened in Pakistan was on the cards right from the very time of partition. If honourable members care to read the papers by Oskar Spate of the Australian National University or papers by other people who were informed at the time they will see that it was totally predictable that a country with 1:000 miles between its  2  wings might come to something of the pass which is current at the moment. 
Likewise, the honourable member drew an analogy with Nigeria. Without taking each one of these in turn, because they are not totally common in their themes, there is one thing that is common. It is a geographical component. This is totally relevant to Papua New Guinea. The question of the spatial geographical separation underlying cultural and other differentials as in Pakistan is, I think, relevant here. In New Guinea we have a situation of an essentially highland core, unusually in the world context, more populated than the lowland surrounding it. To generalise somewhat widely but I think accurately enough, this is a basic differential of the lowlanders versus the highlanders in their attitudes to self-government, if not to the matters that concern us in the Bill that we are discussing now. The Bill provides for increases in the number of open electorates from  69  to  82  and the number of regional electorates from  15  to  18.  I think it should be clear to all and sundry - I know that it is clear to honourable members who have already taken part in this debate - that these electorates in their totality are coincident; that is to say, both the regional electorates and the open electorates cover the whole of the Territory. Therefore a number of open electorates is contained in each of the fewer regional electorates. 
One of the propositions is to increase the number of regional electorates from  15  to  18,  thereby making them coincident with the  18  districts of the Territory.  1  believe that to be a very simple and sensible politico-geographical manoeuvre whereby the districts, which have some sort of entity and which gain for themselves a political ethos and geographical boundary, become coincident with at least one form of their electorates - in this case the regional electorates. It simplifies the position. It enables each member to represent a district totally and coincidentally. There are many approximations to that situation, many parallels around the world in State systems elsewhere. In our own system, for example, an anology may be drawn - again it is of a general nature - with the senatorial electorates and the single member House of Representatives electorates. The effect is something the same, although in the case of New Guinea the representatives of each type of electorate sit in the same House of Parliament, rather than in  2  separate Houses governing jointly. That is the position at the moment. 
I suggest that the proposed moves are certainly of the right order. Even if they are not, the key to the whole situation is the fact that they are based on the Arek Constitutional Committee's report. In talking about self-government in detail or in general, for New Guinea or anywhere else, and in considering paternalism and things of that nature, it seems to me that we could be on no firmer ground than to adopt and to concur with the provisions understood and recommended by the people themselves. I will not take the time to detail them, but each of them is founded in the Arek Constitutional Committee's report. I want to take a little further the question of paternalism and in particular the reaction - it is almost a fear - of honourable members opposite to it. 
Almost all honourable members opposite who have spoken in this cognate debate have shown their inclination, as in other area previously, to denigrate paternalism. I would describe it as an anti-colonial overreaction. I believe that it is an overreaction in the sense that paternalism certainly should not continue indefinitely, with one people considering themselves superior to other people; but one should not throw out the baby with the bath water. With the report of the Arek 'Constitutional Committee before us, I think it is drawing a long bow to say that for some reason or other the people who rushed around the Territory at a greater rate than any of us have done, even including the honourable member for Fremantle have deluded themselves, have been manipulated or have otherwise got the message wrong. 
It is pretty clear from what they say that the conservatives, as is well known to honourable members who have spoken in this debate, are to be found in the Highlands and in more populous numbers, and the activists or even the radicals are to be found in the Lowlands, particularly in the Peninsula. I do not want to push the environmental deterministic line too far, but we cannot escape from it altogether. It is there, and any recognition of this geographical component in the political realities of New Guinea is a wise move, irrespective of our recognition of the historical factors, cultural and linguistic differences, problems of land tenure and the like. 
I do not want to take up too much time in discussing the impact of the Leader of Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  during his visits to the Territory. However, embarrassing or not embarrassing it may be, I take up just one phrase mentioned by the honourable member for Fremantle earlier in the debate. If I remember correctly, he spoke about the powerful intrusion of outside thinking into the Territory. I agree with that in 2 senses. I believe it was a powerful intrusion for good, perhaps, in the sense that it alerted the Australian people to the issues involved, more rapidly than they might otherwise have been, although I would not go too far in that. I believe it was an intervention or intrusion for harm with regard to the Territory itself. 
Those with whom I travelled recently in Papua New Guinea interviewed about 4 or 5 local government councils. One of the most telling pieces of evidence that came forward in response to our saying that generally speaking we did not seek to raise political issues but wanted to learn what we could from the people about what they wanted came, when what we said was interpreted, from one member of the Pangu Party, whose name I shall not reveal, when he said: 'They do not wish to make trouble like one  Mr Whitlam'.  That is as factual as I can make it. It was an interesting reaction from the member of the Pangu Party. He was not a member of the United Party or some other political area of interest. I believe that what I have said cuts both ways. Although it may have stimulated some interest here, I believe it has put fear and apprehension into a great number of people in Papua New Guinea and has fed the overly radical elements in that community. In saying that, I do not mean that there should not be some radicalism or some issuing forth towards greater progress. There must be someone in the vanguard to pull along the majority behind them.. 
Honourable members who have spoken before me in this debate have touched on some of the other basic issues involved. The question of fragmentation and of governmental tiering is highly relevant. The Committee suggested that it had some representations for regional' government. We had similar enunciations from some local government councils. Our inclinataion was to say that a 3 -tiered form of government, that is to say, a central government, possibly regional governents and local autonomous councils would not be what we would recommend given the Australian experience of the difficulties of integration between 3 different levels of government. Therefore, it is interesting to see that at least for the time being the concept of State-type governments in between-- 
I am not normally in agreement with the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and I disagree with him on this occasion more than ever before during my time in this chamber. Despite the amount of repetition which he gave us - in fact he had validity in most of what he said - I do not agree with him in his undue emphasis on the time of the introduction of this Bill. But when we get down to the substance of the issue, I have to talk from a specific point of view. This particular loan, underpinned, as it were, by the Commonwealth on behalf of the State of Victoria, and several other loans of a similar kind which have already been implemented, have a considerable effect on the apple processing industry in Tasmania. The effect as far as can be discerned is such that in the years 1968 to 1970 Tasmania's share of the bulk apple production of the internal market in Australia declined from 60 per cent to 40 per cent. I cannot totally prove that this is the only incidence of differential operation which has caused that situation. I can say only that I am assured by the Tasmanian Fruit Processors Association, that their production processes, the promotion of their produce, their marketing facilities and their labour costs are comparable with those of their mainland competitors. Probably in one respect only are they at a disavantage, and that is in relation to freight charges, which is a matter well known to this chamber. But in this particular case there does not seem to be a critical difference. After consultation with some of these other industries, it is firmly believed that these loans, and even grants I think in some other cases, have made it possible for mainland apple processors to seriously cut into the Tasmanian share of the market. The market in Australia is of the order of 35,000,000, lb per annum, about 15,000,000 lb of which comes from Tasmania. The reduction in its share of the market, as I said earlier from 60 per cent to 40 per cent, appears to be a direct reflection of the incidence of other producers coming on to the market. While some of the other producers such as the Batlow Co-operative and Jon Preserving Co-op. Ltd presumably have had some bearing on this matter, the straw which is bidding fair to break the camel's back in this case appears to be the Shepparton Preserving Co Ltd. It is clear from the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  that there is considerable justification for the belief, as I think my friend from Dawson has acknowledge, that Shepparton SPC, and no less the area of Shepparton, appears to be considerably dependant upon the viability of that industry. Nevertheless, as I see it, we appear to have here something of an industrial parallel with the balance of nature theme that is found in other areas. One could have a situation where there is an entity of production - an entity of competition if you like - to which extraneous factors axe introduced, and it leads one into reactions which were not necessarily envisaged, and which one, does not even necessarily want to happen. So we have a situation now where mainland producers are selling 6i lb cans of the bulk apple product at something like $1 to $1.50 per dozen less than the Tasmanian producers who are making their best efforts in perhaps the best apple growing areas in the natural state in Australia. So the points ;made by the honourable member for Dawson in the sense that there may be precedents and that there may be dangers involved in this sort of operation I think are well made. 
While I am not here making a special plea, it is clear that the Commonwealth is involved through the States in such an operation as this. It is clear that the opera tion is initiated by the States. In this case the Victorian Government has seen fit to shore up the present viability or otherwise of SPC at Shepparton. In other words, the Commonwealth has seen fit, I think understandably, to pick up the tab as a result of Victorian representation. That is only reasonable, as I see it. But I think the incidence and the effects of this sort of thing, as I suggested earlier, are not necessarily foreseen in their totality. So we do not plead for a handout or something of that kind because clearly in terms of what I have said, whether I am right or wrong, it would come back to the Tasmanian Government to make a representation of the kind that Victoria has made on behalf of its particular firm. At the same time where does this leave a firm, or a series of firms, which are in fact still viable and which are holding up their end of the market to some extent, although declining in their share, but which cannot say: 'We are on our knees; we are going out of production tomorrow unless you forward us a loan or a grant of $lm or $2m or $3m'? Where does it leave these people whose market is being cut into and who are not yet in the position of being able to say: 'If you do not make money available to us we have had it. Our area will be in a parlous state and we may have unemployment with all the attendant consequences'? 
I think that I : have made my point sufficiently. I do not want to repeat the arguments which I have already made but I draw attention to What I believe to be the validity of the remarks of the honourable member for Dawson who referred to the problems of precedent which could arise from the sort . of operation we are now considering. It will be clearly a function of Tasmanian governments to consider whether the seriousness of the situation in Tasmania ultimately merits the same sort of representations ' to and the same sort of treatment by the Commonwealth as has been afforded to other producers. I am given to understand - I cannot substantiate it on a personal basis - that at the time the Shepparton Preserving Co. took on apple production, as distinct from other fruit production in which it was engaged, there could be seen to be no capacity in the apple market for expansion. Expansion may be allowable in terms of anybody wishing to compete against somebody else but if such expansion is to be undertaken with subsidies or government loans or grants the situation is complicated. So I join, in qualified degree, with the honourable member for Dawson in having certain misgivings about this kind of operation. I hope, however, that when other such operations are envisaged we will be able to look further into the future acknowledging the problems of various firms which are affected in the same way as the Shepparton Preserving Co. has clearly been affected in needing the grant which has been recommended and which it is now sought to ratify. 
Neither the bour of the morning nor the timing of this debate is particularly conducive to clarity of thought on this matter. Nevertheless, I am disappointed in what the honourable members for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  and Wills  (Mr Bryant)  have had to say on this subject. Despite a perhaps somewhat ungracious reference by the honourable member for Fremantle to the time allotted to me in a recent debate, I think I have been in the habit of following him on educational matters and, in the main, giving him reasonable credit for the usually soundly based arguments which he puts forward. This debate involves a question cf extending, and finally concluding, grants for secondary school science laboratories. The burden of the complaint of the 2 honourable members opposite who have spoken so far has been based on the question of state aid and on a fairly widely placed argument in relation to inequalities in education. So far as I see it, they have not in any sense made out a case against me as to the direction in which these funds are to be placed, although they might be forgiven considering those factors of time which I mentioned earlier. If we take into consideration the fact that all the funds for government schools come from Government sources and that some only of the funds for independent schools come from Government sources. I believe we immediately put into a slightly different relief the sorts of arguments which have come forth in the last half hour or so. We may remain at ideological odds on the question of State aid as it is so often called. But the question whether we aid independent schools does not, I think, at the moment bring into consideration the matter of need, at least until it is proved otherwise. 
I am very disappointed to find that the honourable member for Fremantle, of all people, so blithely keeps pushing the Geelong Grammar School borrow for the State aid argument. Surely he must have realised long since that Geelong Grammar is a completely untypical example to take for those schools of a non-government kind which receive aid from governments in one form or another. It is just as untypical as one or two other schools I could name but need not worry about now. I am not interested at this stage in ranging widely over the whole argument of state aid, but as far as this Bill is concerned honourable members opposite might at least have drawn attention to a table in the second reading speech of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn)  wherein on can see that far more than half the total nongovernmental grants are in the direction of Catholic schools. How relevant therefore is the question of quoting what are by general acknowledgment the most affluent types of non-Catholic non-Government schools and bringing forth a somewhat biased version of the situation in that way? To emphasise the position, $2.9m is directed towards Roman Catholic schools and $1.38m is directed towards non-Roman Catholic nongovernment schools. Without taking the matter in more detail - perhaps I run slightly foul of my own criticism - I think it is generally known by those interested in education that the Catholic schools in the large are a great deal more deficient in their funding than are some of the better off middle-income areas. 
That is included in your amendment. That is a valid point if in fact one takes the point of view that the non-State schools should not get in this area, any more than do any of the State schools. But it totally ignores the point I made a little earlier that all the State schools are being funded by Government moneys totally or near enough to totally. 
That is an infinitesimal part of the whole raisings of moneys if the honourable member is talking about science laboratories and the like. I am also surprised to find that the Government members committee on education which has been receiving people and deputations week after week for some time past, has not been hearing the same story as we hear on a number of occasions. I do not wish to identify the people concerned although this is not through a want to substantiate my argument. But there has been a fairly repetitive argument - it is not the only one - and complaint, in fact, from people who are sometimes associated with State schools that already moneys are being spent on laboratories which, they argue, might go somewhere else. As honourable members have drawn attention to the political niceties of this matter and alleged, in effect, that State aid and political expediency are the governing forces in this operation, I think it is relevant to say that the political returns are diminishing in the area of specific grants if for no other reason than the fact that many of the schools are now fairly well equipped with both laboratories and libraries. Clearly the overall need is much less pressing and the political ambit becomes somewhat less general. 
There is another factor which could have been touched on and which I would like to substantiate in more detail than I shall, although it could be validated by further reference to resource material. I think honourable members will find that there has been a considerable lessening of emphasis over the last 2, 3 or 4 years on the science area of education, even at the secondary level. There is something of a swing back towards the humanities. Certainly that has been so in recent years in the teritary education sphere to the extent that there is now a fairly well known over-supply of chemists at the level of academic education. I know we are not talking about only that matter. Not very many of the science students coming out of secondary schools will end up being university or industrial tertiary educated chemists. Nevertheless the great dearth of scientists which we could point to 10 years ago and less, no longer exists in the broad. There is a market situation which is a good deal different from the one which existed less than a decade ago. If honourable members look at some of these schools more closely they will find - I believe to their advantage - that there is a fairly significant beginning of social science laboratory development in lieu of further science laboratory development in secondary schools. 
In various schools in my electorate and probably in the honourable member's electorate if he cares to look. This is still a very small proportion of the total because science has been on a considerable wave of world wide dimensions which is in some ways to our good and in other ways perhaps to our detriment. I allude of course to the problem of the 2 cultures if it exists in such a compartmented form. I think honourable members opposite will know what I mean. The hour is tate or early, as the case may be, and I do not intend to pursue this matter at great length but honourable members opposite drew some attention to other problems relating to this matter, for example, very much to state aid; to inequality of opportunity; to giving to the haves and not to the have nots; to taxation and how under this Bill those on higher incomes for some reason or other will benefit yet again while the have nots remain just where they were. The argument is tenable and I think that honourable members opposite will be aware, as we in this part of the chamber tend to be, that there are possible alternatives, irrespective of whether implemented at this stage. I think it is probably conceivable that in the not too distant future we may weir consider in education, if not in some other forms of social services, the question of flat rates of taxation relief possibly on assessed income or on the final tax payable in' respect of expenditures by people in those areas. Either of those variations on the present theme would have a significant difference. They would undermine considerably the advantage which certainly is enjoyed, relatively speaking, by those who are paying more at the outset and who therefore incur a higher rate of marginal tax and' thereby a higher rate of relief if in fact they get off some of that marginal rate of tax. Now, it was pointed out by the honourable member for Fremantle or perhaps by his colleague that needs are now to be considered more. That sounds great. It is easy for honourable members to criticise and say: 'That suggests you were not considering needs sufficiently before'. But let us look at the position. Let us look at what the Minister had to say. He said that until now, the distribution of funds for science laboratories has been on the basis of a formula which was based on secondary enrolments and State populations. That is not a bad basic formula to begin with. I do not think anybody could draw a very sharp arrow at that. They might want to refine the situation somewhat but as a basic formula for . implementing this programme some years ago that was reasonable. The Minister then said that because a great deal of the need has been filled - not all by any means - for the remaining part of the time we will consider individual school need more specifically than looking at States or State school collections - collections of schools in a State - as a whole. I do not see any Ulogie in that change of emphasis. In fact, I think it could even be said to be reasonably commendable. This may or may not be an example of, as  Mr Wilde  said, good resolutions made too late; but frankly I do not think that that is a very apposite quotation to make in regard to this Bill. One might just as well say that the road to hell is paved with good intentions and therefore, because this Bill shows good intentions, the Liberal-Country Party Government is headed in the direction in which the Labor Party would like to see it go. I do not believe that that quotation is any more relevant to the present situation. I believe that the intentions are good. I believe that the resolution is at least fair and that, generally speaking, in the school community this operation has been seen to have very considerable and specific advantages in the education of our children in secondary schools. 
Finally, let me say, merely to emphasise my main theme, that this Bill should not really be argued on the question of state aid. I believe that this is not the most appropriate time to bring to account the whole question of inequalities in education, although of course the argument for per capita grants in any shape or form - including per capita per pupil, as is implied in the amendment - in itself is a good, uniform, fair sounding and fair acting proposition which one could not deny. But I disagree that the Bill needs to be withdrawn and redrafted at this stage. I think that this Bill should be seen more appropriately as a continuation and, as the Minister said, within the next few years a conclusion of a programme which has, on the whole, been of very considerable benefit to the Australian school community. 
I present the following  petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 271/2 per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is customs duty of up to 471/2 per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that customs duties be removed, and (hat all contraceptive devices be placed on the national health scheme pharmaceutical benefits list. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth - 
that the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects  on  man, animals or plants; 
that the World Health . Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
that the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol doss not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances  in  the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
that the Parliament take note of the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
that Honourable Members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received 
With due respect, I believe that the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  is in danger of losing us the main thread of this debate, and I would like, if I may, to return to it, although he was not guilty of leaving it entirely. It is a question of picking up when he found the thread again. Surely the question here is a matter of convenience, as to how, where and when honourable members can most efficiently fulfil their duties. There is no argument that their duties lie in 2 places: Here and in their electorates. There may be some other places they have to visit in between, but basically this is where their obligations lie. 1 do not wish to canvass the question of the hours spent in the different places. It has been often repeated here and, basically speaking, I think that it is fairly well known at least to those people who normally listen to the broadcasts of these debates. Of course there is no absolute in this matter of achieving the most effective way for us to meet. There is no right way and there is no wrong way. So far as the majority of members is concerned we are talking about a question of compromise. Along with a lot of other things in this place, and particularly, if I might say so, among those people who might have been here for quite some time and become inured to the system, the basic difficulty in solving this problem is that many things are regarded as impossible. 
Even though the matter of trying the experiment, which is about to be abandoned, was carried on a free vote last year, immediately a considerable number of people opposed any suggestion that the new system, the experiment as it has now been called, could work. It is not sufficient to say that because the rear ends of a lot of people can be seen disappearing over the horizon on Friday afternoons, the system has been proved not to be workable. The fact of the matter is that if we had sufficient control, for example, by the Whips, which would not be incongruous in this place, we could assure that nothing below a quorum, or something above a quorum were maintained on Friday afternoon or on any other afternoon. The first duty of a parliamentarian, as I see it, is in this place. A number of other people agree that it is in this place. In fact, I think almost everybody from his own peculiar point of view agrees that it is. If that could be assured the system would work. It could not be assured that we would stay here over the short weekend which was included between these 2 consecutive weeks of sitting with one week off. 
But once again, it was quite clear from the outset that a number of people had not the slightest intention of making the system work. That is their prerogative, and they may be seen to be right. But I venture to suggest that before many years have passed they, as members of the House of Representatives, will find themselves to have been wrong. The Senate already has developed a committee system - in fact, I might say overdeveloped a committee system; it is practically running them ragged but, nevertheless, it is producing some quite effective findings and some quite effective informational matters which in due course come before that chamber. We are not, to anything like the same extent, doing that here, and I do not advocate an approximation to that. But eventually, when the Standing Orders Committee's report comes before us totally, we will have a proposal to develop some quite important committees in lesser number than the Senate. I do not think anybody has given serious attention to the question of when those committees will meet. Before we do so I do not believe that we can properly consider this motion that we should revert to the previous system of sitting days. 
I believe that reversion to the status quo ante, to the situation that obtained before we moved to this great experiment, without qualification is just not sensible. It is as unsensible as to say that something is impossible before it has been tried. It is not sensible to say that because we do not have enough time to do our job properly or to the best of our wishes we should not have enough time to do so. That is roughly how the argument runs and it is about as sensible as that. If we believe genuinely that this system is not operating properly - I think the majority believe that to be so - then the very serious question arises whether we should revert precisely to where we were. The question in my mind is this: We did not leave the other system simply for the purpose of having fun, spending time and having free votes and all the rest of it in this House. We left the other system because it seemed to be unsatisfactory. I said at the outset that no system would be totally satisfactory but, roughly speaking, any system will be as satisfactory as the intent of the people who are operating it. 
I believe very sincerely that there is a grave question mark against the thought processes of honourable members generally if we find that we have to revert without modification to a system which we left only a few months ago because it was not working well enough. I suggest that even a small modification should be entertained by honourable members. I am not one-sided about this matter. In fact, I am prepared to speak against it and against my own convenience as I did before. I believe we should try to make it work. If we revert to the  3-day  sitting week I think it is reasonable that we consider sitting for  3  full days and that the Executive consider holding its meetings on a Monday or on a Friday. I am prepared to listen to the arguments which may be put up to show that this may be difficult and that it should not be entertained. If so, all right, but I would like to hear the arguments. Otherwise we will have the situation where I or other people who have to travel further than I do will be coming to Canberra for  1-day  and  2  half- day sittings with accompanying matters, such as committees and so on which I do not downgrade as they are part and parcel of Parliament and as such are very important. Nevertheless we would be coming here for  1  full-day and  2  half-day sittings. 
My travelling time is effectively about H days to get here for any meaningful business and to return to my electorate in the light of transport connections and so on. I point out that that is not the minimum travelling time involved. Other honourable members have longer distances to travel than I do.  1  am not complaining. I am just drawing attention to the fact that this is a lot different from the  40  minutes or  1  hour or  2  hours total time expended in travelling from Sydney or Melbourne to Canberra, that is to say from one's home to this Parliament. The fact of the matter is that the majority, as my colleague the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  pointed out, do come from the Sydney-Melbourne axis and it grieves me a little to find that a couple of people who suggested to the Government Members Committee that there might be a weighted vote in favour of those people who come here from far distant places were ignored. That was not a matter which was given serious consideration. If it had been it might not have worked but it grieves me to think that it was not given serious consideration. As the honourable member for Griffith suggested, I think there is a parochial element. I hope I will not be held guilty of introducing it. I am merely commenting on what to me is evidence of parochial voting. 
If I may return to the point which I believe is most important in this matter, apart perhaps from the fact that things '.re considered to be impossible which have not been properly tried, it seems to me that at some point in time - it may not be now and it probably will not be now - all honourable members in this House will have to take their courage in both hands and decide that they will jointly, severally and otherwise risk the wrath of their electors at the next election, but they will risk it a good deal less if they act together, and say: Look, we believe that our prime purpose in being parliamentarians is to be here, to have sufficient time here or anywhere else to make constructive speeches, to do the requisite work and so on, and I will be available in my electorate when I can outside those times'. I do not think anybody could accuse me of not having tried to do what I could for any single member in my electorate who had asked me to tlo something for him. In fact, I advertise for their business. I think the same can be said very properly of every honourable member in this House, and I do not say that with my tongue in my cheek. 
The fact of the matter is that unless we in this Parliament take it upon ourselves in some year or other to educate our electors to the fact that we will serve them on a personal basis in the time that we have available after serving the country in this Parliament, then they will never believe that message. So long as we continue to orient the situation so that we can be in our electorates on Monday, or Saturday or some other day we will do it, and we will be doing it in the year 2000 if we do not take the sort of decision I believe we should take. 
Of course there are some technicalities in this matter. If an honourable member has a good secretary, as I have, who can handle the day-to-day business and pass on to him the things that need his personal attention, then he will be way ahead. If an honourable member has someone who is not competent or mature enough to handle the business of his electorate in his absence, then he may be in difficulty. However, it should not be beyond the capacity of the average honourable member to find a secretary who can reasonably attend to the affairs in his electorate while he is in Canberra and he can then pick up the traces on return to his electorate. That is not to say that he cannot do some of his electoral work by mail or by telephone. 
I believe that other honourable members have put the suggestion - in fact it is not alien to the report of the Standing Orders Committee, at least it is behind what it puts as a formal motion - that there should be more sitting weeks in a year. Whatever daily system we adopt I believe that this should be so. Such was the state of affairs at the end of the last session that I doubt whether there would be much objection to that, at least at this time. I do not agree very fully as a rule with the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  but on this occasion he made a sensible point when he said that the civil service and our own secretaries and other people involved do not work on Saturday or Sunday and, therefore, if an honourable member tried to go home for a short weekend, as is the case under this system, he would not have a great deal of success in pursuing his electoral business apart from catching up with his family or public engagements. Therefore, we are back to where we were and no doubt the majority will decide that the 3-day system - or should I call it the I full-day and 2 half-day sitting system as far as parliamentary sittings are concerned - is the one we want. 1 believe there is a very basic and, if you like, environmental determinist basis to what we are having difficulties with today. It affects us in many ways. It affects our State-Federal relationships in that we have too few States or too many States, whichever way you like to look at it. If we were in the Congress of the United States and had to cope with the large area in that country and many times the population that we have here we would not, as senators, for example - they do not - attempt to communicate with their several million electors in a personal way. If we were members of the House of Representatives in the United States we would find it impossible to communicate with 250,000 or 500,000 electors in the same sort of way. We would, however, have a staff of about 15. I. believe that, as in other matters, we find ourselves very firmly between 2 stools. That is to say, we range over a very large area of country and we come from ail parts of Australia, which has an area of 3 million square miles, to get to this place to communicate the business of the country far afield. In doing so we find ourselves with the idea that we should get out of here as fast as we possibly can and go back to our electorates which are a long way from Canberra and which contain relatively few electors. If it is a rural electorate or a small town electorate or possibly an electorate as large as my electorate in Hobart, it is likely that those people will rightly enough, in the conditions which exist, believe that the honourable member concerned should be available to attend to them, if necessary, on an individual basis. So we run the risk of the parliamentary institution being downgraded to the extent that we are in demand in our electorates. as it were, on a daily basis. This is a serious matter. I believe that probably the cause is lost because honourable members have indicated in that direction. I am regretful that it is lost without having been put properly to the test, and I hope that on some not too distant occasion in the future it will again be tried in some form and perhaps with a greater sense of urgency to develop the immediately extra parliamentary pursuits of members of this House. 1 am speaking particularly about the worthwhile committee system to the extent that we should contribute more effectively to the organisation and progress of this country. 
It is tempting to speak of purely economic matters in this Budget debate but the reference by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  to the vulpine interjection of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  moves me first to deal with his accipitrine observations and concerns. For those unfamiliar with the word 'accipitrine', it means hawklike. The Leader, of the Opposition roved and ranged widely over a number of matters which I found of extremely interesting concern to me. He made a number of revelations such as, for example, that politics is tied to economics in the Budget. Whoever thought otherwise? He sees it, in fact, as the final document in the process of de-Gortonisation. That, of course, suits his convenience, but it does not alter the fact that the Budget is designed to reduce anti-inflationary processes and, in fact, is almost totally irrelevant to the matter of any divisiveness which he thinks he sees in the Government ranks. 
He is concerned greatly that we have become and are increasingly becoming a nation of employees. He did not bother to explain why that worried him - why we find ourselves in the same situation as the great majority, in fact all, of the other nations. He sees great sectors of secondary industry - I think I quote him aright - which have not contributed to inflation. J should like more elaboration of that point. Which great sectors of secondary industry have not contributed to inflation? 
He foresees increasing unemployment. I suppose not many members of this House would wish to see increasing unemployment, but in relation to the forces that are at work it may be one answer to the sorts of things which the Leader of the Opposition himself is instigating. He sees that extra charges which are payable as a result of this Budget will hit later. The hammer will fall, the axe will fall,  9  months hence. I presume he is thinking of company tax and allied matters. Surely the people concerned will make some provision for such payments and will not read the Budget speech and the Budget in  9  months time. 
Let me come to a really telling point for the people of Tasmania, not to mention others. The Leader of the Opposition makes the magnificent observation that  Mr 
Hawke's money-saving strike-solving operations have been in the interests of the populace at large. Tell that to the people of Tasmania. Tell that to the people of my electorate. Tell that to the businessmen and the consumers of Hobart, and see how much they are convinced about  Mr Hawke's  strike-solving actions. Talk to them about the stewards' strike that held Tasmania to ransom for two or three weeks. Tell the men about the promise of no further dis.sention or involvement in these strikes, especially when 2 weeks later the next strike occurred. True, in due course  Mr Hawke  did solve the problem, but a heck of a lot of damage was done before that happened. 
The Leader of the Opposition tells us of  Mr Hawke's  forcing the Government into resale price maintenance - on the whole a good operation, one believes; that is to say, the legislation in that regard. But could he tell us more about the very small curtailed range of goods in particular lines held by Bourke's stores - a mere handful of ranges of goods - whereas a firm such as Myers, for which I have no particular brief but it makes a contrast, has, say,  $1,000  or so outlaid in  100  or more different lines, colours and sizes? Because the thing is appropriated by our St Georges of resale price maintenance at that level, the whole process becomes gummed up, and a line cannot be supplied in the same way to the people who have been supplying it in larger measure. So let us hear about some of those things. 
Of course there were other matters in the  70  minutes of the speech of the Leader of the Opposition to which I should refer. For example, his near final remark that here we have a divided government wishing to divide the nation. He speaks in the best of holier than thou attitudes. He speaks, I presume, from the position of one who has instigated physical demonstrations in relation to Vietnam and in relation to the Springbok tour. If those things are not divisive of nationalism or of national unity then I have a lot to learn. 
However, I want to come to what  1  regard as even more important matters that the Leader of the Opposition dealt with and, in particular, after a breathless  40  minutes or so of his speech we got to the point which I was in fear of his ignoring this year, because he made much of it last year and in a basic sense I agree he should have made something of it. This is what he calls our 3-nation situation. He is, in fact, so bold as to describe it as a matter of almost geographical precision. He speaks, first, of our affluent suburbs; secondly, of our depressed rural areas and, thirdly, of our depressed suburban areas. As I say, I cannot agree more that it is a matter fit to be raised. I regret that there is no more direct reference to it in this Budget or, in fact, perhaps in any other, although there are indirect references in relation to grants made in respect of roads and things of that nature, not to mention social services and other things which affect the populace in the cities as much as or more than those in the rural areas. But it would help greatly, in my view, if the Leader of the. Opposition understood somewhat more what he was talking about, because to define our country into 3 geographical areas of that kind totally ignores the functional integration between city centres and suburban areas - the whole process of urbanism and urban living which is now world wide, begun in a thorough going modern way in the 19th century with the industrial revolution in Britain and has now spread to this country almost as much as to any other. But to describe the situation as he did indicates a considerable lack of recognition of the things which tie together these particular areas which he has identified. He describes our lack of mention of cities as perhaps unique in national budgets. Whether or not that is true, I cannot say. 
He talks much of the rising price of land. As I heard him, he appeared to me to be repeating the oft repeated Party assertions of, in particular, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  While what he says is true, and while there is a case to be made for holding down the increasing prices of land as they affect every man's budgetary position, he still does not understand, he begs the question or makes invalid comparisons, because the basis of what he is talking about is the sort of thing the honourable member for Reid talks about - the block of land in the centre of a city is now a great deal dearer than it was 20 years ago. He tells us that these days people, particularly those in the younger age groups, have fallen on hard times. In saying so he totally ignores the advent of the automobile and the advent of the capacity of young people to buy those things and other things on hire purchase, and the fact that they no longer have to live on that block of land near the centre of the city. So it goes on. Much of the sort of thing which comes to us from the Leader of the Opposition and which is only half truth at best, needs to be explored. 
He talks - again properly, I believe, in relation to this theme because the two are interrelated - of our programme of rural depopulation. He talks further of pastoral properties owned by companies. As I understood him, he seemed to find that a matter of relatively recent advent - a matter et some concern for having happened. If he cares to look at something more he can read Heathcote's book 'Back of Bourke'. He will find that the company ownership Of properties back of Bourke has been going on for about a century and is very well documented, for a sample area, in that book. The Leader of the Opposition goes on and brings us down somewhere - 1 do not know where it falls within his 3-nation concept - to the level of local government problems and local government debts. Surely he recognises that these are within the province of the States. How, in a 3-tier system, it can be laid at the door of the Commonwealth Government without bypassing the responsibility of the States is difficult to understand. 
The Leader of the Opposition passed to the proposition that inequalities between regions arc greater than those between States. I should like to see the documentation of that. He. suggests that this again is a Commonwealth responsibility. Much as I sympathise with the view of reducing certain inequalities, surely within the structure we have this is a State responsibility to a substantial degree. This is no playpolitics argument; it is a sheer political argument in the purest terms. Surely in the structure we have, the responsibility for reducing inequalities between intrastate regions can hardly be said to be a responsibility of the Federal Government. 1 will leave that point for a moment and deal with another major area which the Leader of the Opposition touched during his speech. It is the question of education. I was extremely disappointed to hear the way in which the Leader of the Opposition dealt with this problem. He spoke of broken promises, of a nationwide survey, of concessions to the wealthy and so on. Let me deal more specifically with those points. I will leave the subject of broken promises to the judgment of others. He referred to the nationwide survey in a totally uncritical manner in the same way as has now been repeated and regurgitated for about a year by various organisations interested, as we all are in this chamber, in the process of education. The Leader of the Opposition dealt with the survey in wilful ignorance of the fact that in the distribution of Federal finance to the State Governments one year ago particular reference was made to the fact that the considerable increase of the order of 10 per cent to IS per cent was made on the basis that education was among those major fields that needed more finance. This fact has been totally, and I suggest, wilfully ignored. I do not know whether the honourable gentleman mentioned a precise figure, but a figure of $ 1,400m has been referred to again and again during the last year. 
The Leader of the Opposition dealt in a totally uncritical way with the survey of needs. I was tremendously disappointed to hear him refer to the additional $100 income tax deduction for education expenses in the terms: 'It is a concession to the very wealthy; those at the top of our three nation structure'. I, and a lot of people like me, had parents who were schoolteachers, people of religion, or clerks. We were sent to private or church schools by the considerable sacrifice of our parents. For what it is worth, my father was earning about 6 a week when he sent me to such a school. But the fact is, rightly or wrongly, that many parents believe it is worth spending their money - more than they can afford on some occasions - to do just that. I find it a very cheap reference by the Leader of the Opposition although I do not take personal offence at the remark. But I find it a cheap reference to all those parents who make sacrifices to send their children to religious schools. It is utter imbecility on the part of the Leader of the Opposition to suggest that only the very wealthy send their children to schools for which they pay fees in addition to the taxes they already pay to help to run the state school system. I do not have time in this debate to range over the whole field of educational inequalities. I find it extremely depressing that a person with such a degree of training, insight and apparent intelligence as the Leader of the Opposition has should make that sort of cheap reference to a matter which is of great help to people who need that assistance. 1 have said that I have allowed myself to be drawn into the ambit of the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition because of some of the things he has said in relation to the Budget and to drift away, for the time being, from the purely economic matters. I wish to devote the few remaining minutes available to me to some of those economic matters. The Treasurer has said that the basic purpose of the Budget is to counter inflationary tendencies in the economy. The subject of those inflationary tendencies has been argued. A Reserve Bank report of recent vintage has been quoted to suggest that the Treasurer may, in fact, be acting on wrong advice. It is very difficult for a layman such as 1 to assert which of these things is absolutely correct. However. I wish to quote from the most recent Treasury Information Bulletin of July 1971. The opening sentence reads: 
The general picture is one of moderate growth in both output and demand accompanied by a strengthening of inflationary tendencies. 
It may be that the whole of the Treasury is wrong. That has probably happened on occasions. But the plain fact of the matter is that at the very best there are conflicting opinions, and at the very worst, the Treasurer has some fairly substantial opinion behind him. 
Dealing with the question of inflation, it has been generally assumed in Australia in post-war times that increases in costs should and can be passed on by management to the consumer. Insufficient price consciousness among those consumers, which include honourable members, and an increasing concentration of our industrial production - through takeovers in particular but by other means also - have made our industries less inclined than they might otherwise be to offset increased costs by greater efficiency or productivity. When productivity increases, as sometimes it does, and unit costs of production are reduced those reductions axe rarely passed on to the consumer in the form of decreased prices. For the benefit of honourable members of the Opposition, I presume that they are aware that I am for the moment criticising managerial techniques. More often than not the savings so made by reducing unit costs of products are expended on the promotion and distribution of the goods produced. No doubt honourable members could cite many examples. I will take a mundane one. I will take the product dental floss which some people use to clean their teeth. 'About a year ago a small tube of that product could be purchased for 10c or 20c: No longer can that be done. It is now packaged in a form which costs 50c or more. It is done up in a very nice cellophane and cardboard package by Johnson and Johnson or other manufacturers. One cannot purchase a smaller piece of dental floss. One has to distinguish between what is hygienic, what is convenient and what is sheer luxury. I submit that that sort of instance is a wasting of resources in the promotional field. It is not needed to sell the product and it does nothing for anybody. In America the situation has been reached where supermarkets sell only large units of packaged goods and no small units. If the average passerby wishes to purchase less than a dozen of something, he cannot do so. He may wish to purchase only one article. We have not yet reached that stage in Australia and it is a situation we should aim to avoid. The recent introduction of legislation dealing with resale price maintenance and restrictive trade practices, coupled with the advent of discount houses, should assist the consumer by their support of the competitive element in commerce. I suggest that is something which is not incapable of resurrection. The maintenance of demand at high levels for many years in Australia, aided by government and banking measures for the most part has almost removed the inclination of industrialists to use price reduction as a means of stimulating demand. Any temporary decline in demand does not now produce price reductions to the consumer. The producer tends to wait out the period for the return to normal conditions. I believe that that is something capable of improvement. 
The other side of the coin is the matter of wage rates. In a situation of increasing productivity, as we have seen created in recent times, demands are made for increased wage rates. The effect of these demands in some areas of the economy can be catastrophic, particularly for pensioners and others on fixed incomes. In homes for the aged, for example, 60 per cent to 70 per cent of the costs are in labour. Substantial increases in labour costs can send such institutions to the wall. Arising out of this a situation develops in which the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission clearly regards this process of increasing productivity leading to increasing wage demands as a reasonable expectation. A chain of events develops such as that outlined as long ago as 1959 by  Dr Coombs:  Productivity increases and wage earners want to share in it, not recognising that a fall in prices will give them a share. So they seek higher wages. The next step is that the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, or its equivalent, will approve increased wages in accordance with the growing per capita output. Next, industrialists and traders are reluctant to lower their prices in response to increased productivity. So the wage earner can improve his lot only by seeking an increase in wages. Next, wages rise. The resulting increase in costs of production are passed on to the consumer in the form of higher prices. As a consequence the benefit of the wage increase becomes illusory. To quote  Dr Coombs: 
Fundamentally prices rise because too many people wish them to rise and too few are anxious to resist. 
Honourable members opposite may not believe that but it appears to be so. So what is required is a change of attitude among producers - perhaps excepting primary producers at this stage - among wage earners and, in fact, among consumers. A change of attitude in all these people is needed to counteract progressive inflation, and in fact it is difficult to see how such a cycle cr such a spiral can be counteracted in a permanent fashion unless all those elements in the community show a willingness to change their attitudes and hold hard in the interests of themselves in the short run and the economy of the nation in the long run. 
Has the Minister for Labour and National Service seen the editorial comment in this morning's Melbourne 'Age' that the Government should have no interest in the affairs of trade unions unless a state of industrial emergency were to exist? Does the honourable gentleman believe this to be in accord with public opinion? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area is of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area ls inundated. 
Your petitioners, therefore, humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received, 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that of 6 million bushels of Australian apples and pears loaded in 1970 at an overall rate sufficient to attract the maximum rebate of 7c per bushel, 3.9 million bushels were loaded at Hobart at an average rate of about 16,600 bushels a day, while Melbourne achieved an average rate of only 4,325 bushels a day? Does he see in this glaring discrepancy of achievement any possibility of relief for the Tasmanian section of the industry, the problems of which have so recently been put before him? 
Is the- Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts aware that most, if not all, of the larger advertising agencies in Australia are now overseas owned or controlled? Does the nature of the Commonwealth Advertising Division's business, for which applications from agencies were recently called, permit Australian owned companies to tender on a normal competitive basis? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. Has the Minister observed the major airlines' methods of handling passengers' luggage, not the least at Canberra Airport, whereby suitcases typically strengthened at the base are dumped on end or allowed to fall off a conveyor belt? Can he determine whether the accelerated depreciation which results is planned with the makers of travel ware, or whether this mutilation is merely regarded as a harmless outlet for the aggressive instincts of those responsible? Will he in any event take up the matter with the airlines? 
We have heard from my compatriots, the honourable members for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  and Franklin  (Mr Sherry),  a concerted attempt, quite apart from that made by the honourable member of Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  who led for the Opposition, to pin the deficiencies of this particular line of production on either the Commonwealth Government or the Government of Tasmania. Reluctant as I am to do so, I feel I must take up in due course some of the points made by my 2 colleagues on the other side of the House, because I do not believe that they contained very much economic logic at all. But before I do that may I explain why it is that I am talking on this subject. 
It is clear that the honourable member for Franklin has in his electorate a majority of Australian and certainly Tasmanian apple and pear production. However those apples and pears are very substantially, not quite exclusively, exported through the port of Hobart, which is in my electorate. In fact the only congestion which occurs in the port of Hobart is, roughly speaking, during the months from March to May when ships tie up in the stream awaiting a berth at our relatively small but very well reputed port from the point of view of its physical capacity. This is therefore a matter of some significance to the people of the city of Hobart as well as to the people of the Huon Valley and thereabouts. If in fact the bottom drops out of the apple and pear industry, and notably the export part of it, a very considerable decline will take place in the activities of the port of Hobart, not to mention those associated areas which are involved in the marketing of apples and pears. 
There are many difficulties in trying to implement the proposals as presently envisaged in either the Government legislation or in fact in the amendment as proposed by the honourable member for Dawson. I think it is only fair to say - I perhaps vary a little from my friend, the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  here - that there is real logic in the proposition that we should have a single national marketing authority for the distribution and export of pome fruits. But it is not as simple as it sounds or as simple as my friends from Tasmania who have spoken earlier this evening would have us believe, because there is involved not only the question of constitutionality but also questions of finance, by whom rt should be done and how it should be done. If in fact the recommendation of the Grant Board of Inquiry were to be implemented, that is to say, the recommendation for a State marketing authority, that in itself would present considerable problem. We have heard a deal from the honourable members for Franklin and Wilmot about governmental procrastination, which I think they levied roughly equally at the State and Federal Governments but perhaps more so at the present Tasmanian Government. But as I recall they failed to mention anything - I noted down the appropriate things that they said - about the financial implications of setting up such an authority. May I point out that if we set up either a State or Federal authority, but let us take a State one first because that is the Grant Board's recommendation, such an authority would assume the functions of the licensed exporters who have been enumerated already in this debate, who currently largely finance the production and presentation costs and guarantee the payment of freight on that portion of the pome fruits which are exported on consignment, that is, as I understand it, at risk. That involves a considerable amount of finance. Such an authority, if set up, would require considerable seasonal finance. Estimates place the figure as high as about II 7m annually. 
I have indeed. We are talking about real money. It is interesting that honourable members opposite have failed to discuss that particular aspect of the matter, assuming presumably that it grows on trees, if not on apple trees and that it would be a very simple operation to implement this thing. As I said, there is indeed logic in doing this but I have a certain apprehension about ultimates in bureaucracy. We know very well the propensity of honourable members opposite to set up commissions or boards or whathaveyou to run practically everything in this country and they have, however happily or unhappily for the growers concerned, or realistically, totally ignored the fact that this has been for a century or more a private enterprise operation and that private enterprise operators expect to have certain ups and downs in consequence of their chosen - in fact the nation's chosen - method of economic operation. 
In saying that - I will not beat about the bush or pretend that it is not possible to offend some growers in the Huon Valley or anywhere else - I must also say that I do not think I can remember a year in my Tasmanian experience when one of the more courageous or forthright members of the industry - I will not mention names - has gone against the general tide and said: There are deficiencies in the marketing of our product. It is time we rationalised it.' I have heard that for at least a dozen years successively - one of the hardiest annuals to come my way. Yet the honourable member for Franklin can say that the majority of growers are pushing for the implementation of the Board's recommendation while the Tasmanian Government resists it. It seems to me, as far as I have evidence, that the Tasmanian Government is doing its utmost in the year or less since the Board's recommendations came forward to find ways and means, with or without Federal assistance, to implement the major recommendations. 
It is not true that the majority of growers have been pushing for the implementation of such recommendations as the Board made for year after year. If the majority of small growers had it would have quickly come about and in particular it would have come about under the previous Labor Government in Tasmania which held office for 35 years until May 1969. When I say that I do not wish to be misinterpreted although I am quite sure I will be quoted out of context in due course by somebody. I do not mean to suggest that those in the industry who are suffering difficulties, as most are, are not deserving of assistance, nor do I wish to do anything but advocate as much assistance as is possible and sensible economically to give. One of the difficulties is that in many, if not all, agricultural pursuits there is a great deal of difference between what happens to the big and small growers. Among his other factual statements the honourable member for Dawson gave us some useful figures on the distribution of incomes among growers. I noted only one, and that is that 7 per cent of growers earn in excess of $10,000 annually - a reputable sort of figure - and that of course a great deal larger proportion are in receipt of half or less of that amount. Herein, of course, lies the problem - a problem which has already been experienced by the berry fruit industry in southern Tasmania and elsewhere and, as honourable members will know, even in the wool industry. 
Any form of price support, subsidy or whatever designed to help the marginal or small grower is likely to help the big grower more and perhaps not to help the small grower enough. This is an intractable problem unless we operate a sliding scale of values and in effect apply a means test according to size, income and whathaveyou to the growers concerned. So in that sense we have a problem that this or any other government of any colour will not find easy to solve. It does not, however, mean that we should not be looking, as the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  certainly is with the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and others, to see just how we can best solve this problem. I think it inappropriate - I regret having to raise yet another point - to do this, but having already seen my friend the honourable member for Franklin make much of the fact that the Prime Minister seemed to be unaware of one letter which had come to him but which in fact was shown within the next second to have been immediately within the awareness of the Minister for Primary Industry, I find it incredible that he should again raise the issue tonight as if it were one of great substance. It seemed to me to indicate a grave deficiency in emphasis on the economics of this problem rather that the peripheral politics. 
We have in fact a situation here whereby an industry, in the case of Tasmania - I trust others will forgive me for not talking about other parts of A us tra-: Iia - represents something over $20m of value to the Tasmanian economy and generates, as the Minister said in his speech, something between 45 per cent and 60 per cent of agricultural earnings for the State and produces something over 70 per cent of Australian exports in this field of production, that is, of pome fruits. So we are not talking about small peas as far as the Tasmanian economy is concerned. In that I agree with previous speakers, in particular the honourable members for Wilmot and Franklin. But it is something which has to be faced as an economic problem. It is, of course, as all these problems are in the ultimate, a human problem, but again the answer is not to fulminate about agricultural wastelands and decentralisation and attribute those to Government ineptitude. It would be the height of folly to attempt by infinite levels of support, stabilisation or what-have-you to have people producing, as somebody preceding me has already said, unwanted varieties of apples - uncompetitive and unmarketable varieties - for markets on the other side of the world merely to try to keep people on the land. 
Although the Huon Valley of Tasmania is remarkably suited climatically and in several other ways to the production of pome fruits to the extent that it produces some of the best cropping in the world and certainly far above the Australian average, it is in fact suited to some other forms of production. Its river flats and slopes already produce hops and other crops apart from pome fruits. In an earlier period of this century something like 95 per cent of cropping in the Huon Valley was in pome fruits. Since that time the relative importance of pome fruits has declined. The yields have increased but the area has been somewhat less stocked by those fruits. It is clear from the economic circumstances that there will have to be alternative forms of production thought of in the Huon Valley. That of course again does not leave us with a situation where we should not do our utmost to implement a rational scheme of marketing - a scheme which, as has been proposed in the legislation, will minimise the weaknesses of the industry, will consolidate the operations, will tend to focus quite specifically on particular varietal forms of production and therefore there will be an incentive for growers to produce those varieties which offer them the best returns under a rationalised system rather than the, relatively speaking, pig in a poke method of producing this or that variety, shipping it long distances and hoping it will produce a decent sort of price to cover costs and a bit more on the other side of the world. ft is not true, 1 must say in all conscience, that we produce unequivocally the best apples in the world. I have sampled some in European markets. I have seen the British public go for South African Granny Smiths almost to the exclusion of others on the market at a particular time. We do in fact produce magnificent apples but they are not all as magnificent as each other. We have long since, I think, put our heads in the sand, particularly in respect of South African competition. I can remember being in Britain in 1963 and 1964 and I can recall the predictions that were made then that the South African crop was being extended in its seasonality to the point where it was already encroaching on that part of the season on which the Australian production had almost a monopoly or at least a very good share. It was feared even then - that was 7 years or 8 years ago - that it might well advance into the Australian sector of the British market, which is still our major one, and cut us out in this regard. That prediction has not come about as quickly or as completely as was thought at that time. This is very well for us. But I think that it would be unfair to this Government or to the Tasmanian Government to suggest that the writing has not been on the wall. As I said earlier, it has been a minority of courageous growers, among whom I can recall one ex-member of the Tasmanian Parliament - I do not think that he lost his seat for that reason - who annually used to say this sort of thing: 'Unless we rationalise our operations and market our things in the way in which other people tend to market their products, particularly in distant markets, we will face problems'. 
The problems are with us now. Again I think that we must solve them to the very best of our ability. But self-help, as the Minister said in southern Tasmania a week or two ago, is part and parcel of the deal. We cannot achieve an economically viable proposition in which Government handouts - subsidies, price supports or stabilisation schemes, whatever they are called - are the only factors. It is nice to see that the Apple and Pear Board, in terms of its consortium proposition, and other elements concerned with this whole operation, not the least the growers, have grasped the bull by the horns or shaken the apple tree, whatever is the appropriate description, to produce a solution which I believe could well have been produced by private enterprise itself long since. It is not, I believe, sufficient to say that the Government, whichever the government is, should have done this. This is an operation in which, in the characteristic fashion of this Government, we have consulted with industry, have seen its views, have been given advice and have taken it or not as the case may be. But it is not good enough to say: 'Look at this parlous situation that we are in now. The Government has been most deficient in its duty. Ten years ago it should have forced on the industry one or another scheme'. 
Now may I take up 2 or 3 points which have been made and I believe are worthy of criticism. The honourable member for Wilmot speaks of the initiative of the Rural Committee of the Australian Labor Party. Would that that Committee had done as much as the Liberal rural committee under  Mr Ashton-Jones  and others. 1 believe that it is of very recent advent indeed and that it is not valid to claim that Government procrastination was responsible for the initiative taken by that Committee. The honourable member for Wilmot and the honourable member for Franklin mentioned the paramount role of freight. One of them went on to say that we should have one brand exported in bulk, thereby saving up to 30c or so a bushel. That is worth doing. But if in fact freight is the paramount problem, the relatively minor consolidation of loading operations and savings thereby will not make the difference which the honourable member would wish for. 
The honourable member wishes to see the rationalisation of brands and container operations. With those proposals I have great sympathy. But, at the same time, the honourable member wishes to sprinkle trade commissioners all around the East. I wonder whether that wish is compatible with the desire to consolidate the productive enterprise of the industry, because if we have a proliferation of trade commissioners we may again have our old State by State competition instead of having an Australian situation. Surely if the Australian Labor Party moves an amendment seeking a national marketing authority it would be a bright idea to think in terms of having a national push, through whatever trade commissioner is operating, in the appropriate ports of sale. May I suggest that if we move a trade commissioner from London to Singapore the profitability of the market of 2 million people in Singapore will not supplant the British market or the European market generally. 
I agree with the proposal for an East Asian market, including, if we can, Japan and China. This proposal should be developed. Again, this proposal is of at least 10 years' standing. In fact, in a paper touching on the apple export industry, I had the enjoyment at one stage of drawing attention to this point and showing on a little map just how small our exports of this product were to the East Asian region. That was nearly 10 years ago. Yet the market has not grown very much. There is obvious room for private enterprise and governmental promotion in the area. But, as other people have said, I think that we will be lucky if we make up the deficiencies which may occur now in the European area. 
 My near neighbour on the back bench, the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer),  threw out the challenge that nobody would speak to the Estimates after he had spoken in this debate. I must take up this challenge at least for a minute or two and perhaps lead on from there to other matters of a kind which have perhaps already been referred to. It is of interest in looking at the estimates for the Parliament for this year to see that the estimates of expenditure in relation to the Senate have increased from 69 per cent to 80 per cent of expenditure - estimated or otherwise, depending on whether it is for this year or for last year - for the House of Representatives. In the case of the Senate the actual figure has increased from $694,000 to $929,000, or an increase of 34 per cent. On the other hand the House of Representatives shows an increase of IS per cent, from $1,012,000 to $1,167,000. I do not imply that there is anything improper in that particular relationship but it would be of interest to know, if it could be measured, whether the reason for the relatively considerable expansion in Senate expenditure - I presume that reason is basically the expansion of the committee system - justifies the additional expenditure. Probably, a superficial assessment of publicity that comes therefrom would suggest that the money has been well spent. 
Perhaps we need to look a little more closely than that and find the reaction of some of those honourable senators who, from my impression, appear to be very nearly prostrate in dividing their attentions among far too many committees. At the same time I think - I have expressed this view before - that it would be most unwise for the House not to consider the future implementation of proposals for two or three other standing committees of the kind already discussed by the Government Members House Procedures Committee which, in essence, were put forward by my colleague, the honourable member for Isaacs relating to expenditures and the assessment of the quality thereof. But I believe that we must strike a happy medium  in  these things. Without going overboard in turning the House into a series of committee meetings which manage to break up in sufficient time to report back to the House at large - conditions tend to approach that situation in the Senate - we have to move away from that extreme in which we do not have enough investigatory procedures, processes and machinery to the situation in which honourable members can contribute the sort of things  on  which I believe the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  touched. He gave us a quick run down on some of the- experience expertise and qualifications of honourable members and suggested that they were  not  being fully used. 
At the same time I think it is unfortunate that some honourable members, even in this debate this evening, while attempting to be constructive on the whole, tended to denegrate and run down a little the role of the Parliament at large, although they tended to except the Executive from those remarks. This is an imperfect form of democracy. In saying that I have no wish to suggest that it should not be changed. I hope that in my relatively short time here I have made my share of suggestions and contributions to some of the ways in which it might be changed. If one attends a meeting such as the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference in Malaysia which I recently attended, and if one takes part in a debate for example on a topic such as government and democracy or democratic institutions, and listens to the views of people from Africa, Asia and elsewhere as well as of those from the long established democracies of the British Commonwealth, one will come to a viewpoint fairly readily that we have here, however imperfect, a form of democracy which many people in the world would be exceedingly happy to emulate if in fact they could manage to do so. 
So while I make no brief whatsoever for our failing to attempt to eradicate the imperfections of this system in which there are many, I believe that we should be eternally cognisant of the fact that we have here one of the most representative democracies in the world today. While not quite approaching the capacity for selfexamination and self-criticism of the American democracy - which of course provides it with both its greatest strength and its greatest weakness in terms of day to day operation, the greatest strength being the long term likelihood of survival - our democracy is on the same staircase. We have our foot somewhere up the middle flight of stairs leading in the direction of knowing that we have a democratic institution, knowing that we are supposed to represent the people at large and, basically speaking, doing so from what would appear to be a reasonably equitable basis of representation. But there are so many matters which could reasonably be said to come under this head that I. am almost forced into the position of the honourable member for Wills in protesting about those terrible people who cut down the speaking times. Ultimately, I cannot agree with him about that because I believe it is better that we should have more frequent opportunities to contribute than to dilate at length on particular subjects. Surely somebody else will say it if we do not get time. Naturally, they will not say it as well. But that is one of the problems of this place. ' 
We have heard some very considerable contributions this evening. I mention the honourable member for Maribrynong  (Dr Cass).  I am choosing with a tremendous lack of bias from the opposite side of the chamber. The contributions from the honourable member for Isaacs, the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury),  the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  and others have touched on matters which are crucial to the improvement of this place. They mentioned White Papers, Green Papers and the proper estimate of where we stand in relation to both the people who elect us and those who share this chamber with us. We do not have an impossible working system, however hard we try to make it so. It is quite true that we fall pretty thoroughly between 2 stools, largely in relation to trying to meet the assumed demands of our electorates and the demands that seem to be upon us from this place. I will certainly place them in the inverse order of what I have just said. 
At the same time, I think that in the future we must look to a situation whereby we inform ourselves with the aid of those very significant institutions, the Parliamentary Library and the Parliamentary Reporting Staff who are not overestimated for in these Estimates. We have to look towards a more constructive approach and the total use of whatever expertise we happen to bring to this chamber. I agree with the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  that this is the place for parliamentary authority as such and for ministerial authority for the implementation and production of policies. If the Senate were really to see itself totally as a house of review it would not be particularly interested in executive office but in totally reviewing the things which come before it from this House. 
I feel that 1 must leave my contribution to this debate at that. But I believe that if we look at the speeches that have preceded mine and perhaps at those that follow we will find some useful contributions to be kept in mind when we look to the further appreciation of this parliamentary institution, as long as we are not too hidebound by tradition, although with some reasonable cognisance of it, as we proceed in the years to come. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of the Treasury 
Proposed expenditure, $103,984,000. 
Advance to the Treasurer 
Proposed expenditure, $25,000,000. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Is my impression correct that the Australian Labor Party's revised industrial relations policy has been enunciated against a background of continuing efforts in the trade union movement to increase the incidence of compulsory unionism? How does the Minister view this situation against the existence of righttowork laws in the United States of America and a recent legal decision in Great Britain which implies that the right to work is as worthy of judicial protection as the light to personal reputation or safety? 
The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  accuses us of having a tragic Government policy in this field. He speaks of our drifting. He talks of elitism although he did not elaborate on that. He mentions the case for the church schools in relation to the fact that their pupils are Australians as are those in State schools. He suggests that we have an open university at some expense, smaller classes and a number of other things. I think this is not the time to take him up on a number of these matters. But while once again, as I think I did last year, acknowledging the imperfections of our system, I think I should for a moment draw attention to one or two figures which the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  put before us in his recent statement. The Commonwealth now expends something like 35 per cent of all capital educational expenditure, in comparison with 18 per cent 10 years ago. In this financial year the estimate of $345m total is 14 per cent up on the previous year and that in turn was an even greater increase on the year before. Commonwealth expenditure on universities is going up 20 per cent to $90m and expenditure on scholarships overall is going up by 14 per cent to $44m. I do not suggest that these things are perfect achievements but they are increases of a greater order than the increases in the populations in the institutions concerned, so at least we are moving in the right direction, to put it at its worst. 
The honourable member for Fremantle has touched on a number of matters which I can not take up in detail, but I want to deal with one of them in particular, and that is an issue which is apparently crucial at the present time. 1 refer to the question of independent schools and what is now generally known as state aid.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  as you well know, there are 2 very decided opposing views on this issue, although the major political parties have now long since both championed the cause in one way or another of independent school aid. There have been from the other side of the House numerous uses of the word 'crisis' in relation to education in the 2 years that I have been here. I believe that on most occasions the use of the term was undeserved. But it does appear that on this occasion we are getting very close to what may be properly regarded as a crisis situation. 
In selecting the State aid question, or the independent schools problem, as the prime issue in relation to these estimates, I think I do so on a basis of fact. I merely take one example which has had some publicity. I refer to the Tasmanian Catholic schools. They are, of course, only part of the independent sector, but I am led to believe on good authority that 20 out of 48 Catholic schools in Tasmania are in grave financial straits. This forms the background of the public denunciations by the Archbishop of Hobart in this matter. One could ask the question in relation to this: What about the relatively low fees that are being charged in Catholic schools as distinct from other Independent schools through the history of this independent school system? Well, the answer is that there is no question that there are generally lower parental incomes among the parents of Catholic children than those in the protestant sector. That has been so for some time. But more importantly I think for the moment, these schools to which I refer, or this system, have increased fees by 24 per cent for primary schools and by 12 per cent for secondary schools in 1971. So if one chooses to be critical of how much is put into the system as distinct from how much is asked for, I believe it shows very definite evidence of goodwill in the matter, of self help and of intent to do as much as people can within their own system. 
There is also a situation which is common to the government schools as to the independent schools. The factor that lies behind the basic problem here is the increase in teachers' salaries and, in the case of Catholic schools, the increasing proportion of lay teachers among their total staff. Gone are the days when the great proportion of their staffs were people in orders who were paid at much lower rates, if at all, than those for lay teachers in the State system and elsewhere. 
We might ask obviously what is needed in this situation. The simple answer is money. It appears from anything I can deduce, observe or analyse in this matter, and I have not heard any other suggestions - let us hope there are some - that the best solution to this problem is per capita grants for running costs, and that is not a new idea; and secondly the possible usefulness of some system whereby we might build into the cost structure of the education system a particular figure whereby increases could be guaranteed. So, for example, the allocations to independent schools might be a percentage of the cost of educating an average child in the State system. 
As I said earlier, I am well aware that there are some people good and true who very much oppose the existence of State aid - they are very much opposed to assistance which is designated in that way. I understand their arguments but it is very hard, either from principle or from the pragmatic point of view, to suggest that we should now close the door on the independent system. I rather suspect, if I do not read it awrong, that the Labor Party is inclined ultimately to do that by introducing a means test principle. The ultimate outcome of that would in fact be the closure of independent schools of whatever denomination in due course. But I believe that we roust think in terms of the fact that matters of conscience are treated in a very indulgent way in the community these days and whatever the history of this matter, which is relevant, the religious schools in Australia were first in the field and the advent of the State system came later. With the advent of the State system we got to the position where everyone, not just some, paid and in some effect now pay twice. 
I return to the question of conscience. It is the basis for religious education - whether it is conscience with a religious involvement or whether it is just sheer personal conscience. But we talk in terms of the ability or the freedom of people to follow their own dictates of conscience or inclination in the matter of education. Of course, we must qualify this allowance by saying that no-one should be allowed to do that unless the institutions are of an approved standard. That goes without saying. But I am saying it because there may be the suggestion that we are paying for second-rate education. That should not be so. If it is so, those standards should be applied rigorously enough to make sure the public is not paying for second-rate education in any system. But if we give fairly free rein to conscience in other respects, not least in the c?se of dissenters from national service and others, whether or not we prefer a secular basis for education, the freedom to choose the educational institution to which we might send our children seems to me to be a pretty fundamental one. On the other hand, if we take a pragmatic view, then here we have a system or systems of non-State schools which in fact are educating about a quarter of our children. If we were, by any negative financial means, to close down these schools, this would throw a very considerable burden onto the State. One can well put the positive argument that whatever governments do or do not do for independent schools, their existence does not necessarily imply more or less expenditure on education in the state sector and it certainly does imply more expenditure on education overall by the community at large. 
The very existence of a second or third level stratum or alternative means of education certainly ensures that people will be putting more money in than is sometimes suggested. For example, I can take the case of a person who a year ago paid,  say,  $260 a term for 2 youngish children at  a  private school. In 1971 the figure had become $360. Let us say the person concerned is earning at a marginal rate of tax of 40c in the $1. If we calculate from that we find that this person would get tax relief of $240. For an outlay of $1,000 that person would still be paying $760 of it into an education system. So I think it goes without further proof that in fact there is a lot of money going into education through the existence of this system. Any thoughts of not keeping this system afloat need to be very, very well backed indeed by arguments other than any I have so far heard. 
Finally, I believe that the Government has a lot to do yet in this field, but I think the increases to which I referred earlier indicate that its heart is in the right place and it is moving - not drifting - with a certain amount of concern in the right direction. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Might I have a small second bite at this cherry? Unfortunately most honourable members opposite have not brought the same constructive approach to this problem as did the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  in the last few minutes of his speech. This matter of education provides well-nigh intractable problems. It encompasses an area which is probably vaster than that of almost any other portfolio, certainly in terms of the expectations of the recipients of any money which may be given under the system. I think we should set to rights so far as honourable members opposite and the public at large are concerned just what it is that we are attempting to do in this field. In saying this I do not make apologies for any inadequacies or any lack of invention on the part of the Government now or in the past. But let us get the matter on a reasonably balanced keel. 
The plain fact of the matter is !hat the Commonwealth has gone into the broader field of education in very recent times, la doing so it has brought considerable assistance to particular areas and in some general areas of education down to the school level. But largely this assistance lias been in the area of tertiary education. This is a fact which is often gainsaid by honourable members opposite and by many of our critics in the electorate at large. However, it should be restated that the Commonwealth is taking a major and significant share in the total burden of education at the moment. As the Commonwealth collects the taxes, why should it not do so? 
But we cannot go on wilfully pretending that the States do not have obligations in this regard. In saying that I mean that practically the whole of tertiary education is now paid for by the Commonwealth in fairly direct measure. In the primary and secondary areas of education, Commonwealth assistance, so far as it can be enumerated, comes largely in the area of specific grants involving this $345m about which the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has spoken. If we look at particular areas of education we cannot talk about a diminishing involvement when we say that colleges of advanced education on which less than $12m was spent 4 years ago will have $37m-odd provided for them in the Estimates for this year. We are telling the same sort of -story in relation to teachers colleges. They had $4.Sm spent on them 4 years ago and it is expected that $13m will be spent on them in this financial year. So the story goes on. Scholarships generally have moved from $24. 5m to more than $43m in the same 4 years. It is not enough to say: 'Here is more money. I am aware of the position.' The plain fact of the matter is that on every hand, in every field of education that we turn to, significant - not paltry - increases are being made by the Commonwealth in its specific grants. That leaves us with the States. 
The Minister for Education and Science pointed out in his statement on education a week or so ago, as did his predecessor, that when the States were given the increase of 15 per cent or so in grants, which the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  referred to as 'in globo grants', against an expected 10 per cent increase some 2 years ago, of course this had implications for the $ 1443m worth of educational need, assessed in that survey. It is really pathetic to find no less than the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  again tonight reiterating, as all teachers' federations in this country have and still are in editorials, on front pages, and elsewhere in their journals, that this figure stands fast - that any increased grants to the States have no bearing whatsoever on this. 
This is not a question of lack of intent. The Commonwealth is doing things on all hands that it has so far taken on. It may not be enough but it cannot do both of these things increasingly all the time. Sooner or later members of the Opposition will have to recognise that the States must rearrange or give greater emphasis to their priorities in respect of education if that position is to be improved. It is not basically a matter for the Commonwealth to come to that very considerable need of, for example, the inner city schools and perhaps some country ones. The inner city schools, almost by definition, by lack of education basically in that particular community, by lack of income, and as a result of that by the environmental deficiencies that have accrued, have provided less for themselves than some other schools but to me it is negative thinking to say that those people who will or can help themselves should not be helped any further because there are others who are less capable of helping themselves. It is in fact an intractable problem. You cannot win both ways without an infinite amount of money. But the plain fact is that if you means test everything you will test for mediocrity in the long run. You will not have any emphasis on self help. You will destroy incentive and if the parties on this side have ever stood for anything, they have stood for initiative, self help, incentive and matters of that kind. 
That still leaves us with some intractable problems. I know and I accept this but we have to find a way in which, by per capita grants of some sort, somehow we catch up with those deficiencies in certain areas. I believe we will be very lucky ever to catch up with them unless we take a view that I could not accede to and that is that we allot money in inverse proportion to the capacity of people to make use of it in a productive fashion and to end up with a world in which apparently it is intended that everybody is absolutely equal because we have applied money in sufficient quantities and sufficiently differential fashion to make them absolutely equal. If they ever tend in those circumstances to be more than totally mediocre I will be extremely surprised. That may be a great world to live in but I tend to think that we will have lost our total zest for living. 
In saying all this I am not advocating that we should keep the depressed schools depressed and depressed people depressed and keep allocating money to people who do not need it. Of course, the system as it operates can be better operated but I do not believe it is a change in total kind that is required; what is required is a change in emphasis. I believe that change  ki  emphasis is already in train. I hope I have made my point clear and that 1 have not made it too convoluted. In saying what I have said I believe I understand the problems of teachers federations here, there and everywhere whose members in fact see inadequate buildings, aging premises and a lack of equipment in certain quarters. Those problems are real; they can be seen and they can be understood. But the plain fact is that it will not be sufficient now or, I believe, at any other time for this or any other government to say that it is entirely your fault, the States are playing a great game, your Hugh Hudsons and others are doing their jobs and we exonerate them from all responsibility in making good the State deficiencies in education. 
The basic things at primary and secondary level will have to be fixed by the States by their ordering of priorities. The Commonwealth cannot take over the whole field and 1 do not think it should. Whatever the government, I think it is most unlikely that it will take over the whole field. As my colleague the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  said, the portfolio of Education and Science is certainly becoming increasingly complex and vast and he may well have a good point in suggesting a division of responsibilities. However, I will not take up that point now. Perhaps those sorts of things will help, but they will not help the basic problems that have been enumerated here tonight. I ask for a display of a sense of responsibility in making an assessment and in trying constructively to solve the problems, lt is of no use, for political or other purposes, beating a can which has long since sounded very hollow indeed. We must find a better means of spending the money that any government will make available. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and . Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and diseaseis occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modem history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government  hat  an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
That present Government aid to the refugees in India is meagre and shameful for a country of Australia's position and wealth. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary, aid for the refugees in India to at least $10m immediately and make provision for a further and extra grant for the victims of the famine in East Pakistan. 
Grant tax deductibility to donations of $2 and over to Australian voluntary agencies working with the refugee problem. 
Ensure that the Australian Government does all in its power to help bring about a political settlement which would be acceptable to the people of East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware that any claim by a medical practitioner for health insurance reimbursement in respect of treatment given to his own child is disallowed under a ruling of the Department of Health? Is he further aware that this is so even when surgical treatment is involved and the necessity for it occurs in a rural locality well removed from any alternative medical assistance? Will the Minister encourage his colleague in the Senate to review the stringent application of this ruling with the aim of leaving judgment as to the propriety of any claim to the health fund concerned, as is generally the case? 
There has been a number of useful contributions to the wide ranging topics which come under the head of these departmental estimates but despite their usefulness, I venture to suggest that the topic which I wish to embrace is in fact more useful than any which has preceded it. The great majority of environmental problems stem from the population growth of industrial societies around the world and the impact which they have made on both physical and social environments. In fact, the 2 often are not distinguished in common parlance. However, they are greatly distinguished in fact. The forces of industrial agglomeration - the forces which have led to scale economies in industry - have been until recent times, by which I mean the last few years, irresistible in the western world and are beginning to be irresistible in some parts of the eastern world. Until diseconomies occur in urban industrial agglomerations they remain irresistible. 
Recent studies have shown that in some of the great cities of the world the forces of dis-economy came to bear only when populations of the order of 5 million or even more were reached. There are no cities in Australia with even approximately that level of population. While public and political awareness of the issues of urbanism, environmental control and the preservation of the quality of life in cities or, for that matter, in the countryside is highly desirable, it is undesirable to make a direct transfer of European or United States experiences and problems to the Australian  scene without modification or qualification. In particular, I mean that they should be regarded with qualification in the matter of scale and of density of population. For example, there is a population equivalent to, or even more than Australia's population feeding itself into, or in one way or another and dependent upon the River Thames in south eastern England. To suggest that it is beyond our capacity, with a certain amount of will and expenditure, to control the flow of effluent in some of our larger cities or, for that matter, in some of our smaller ones, of course is stupid, when we look to other parts of the world and see the problems of scale and of population density with which they are coping and, in some cases, with which they have coped for upwards of a century. 
It is highly desirable that we should know and be aware of the problems which depend on and flow from population density and urbanism in base, but we should not be alarmist about it. We should try to judge the situation as we have it, not as somebody else has it, although that does not prevent us from learning from their experiences. The interrelation of population distribution in toto - the whole population distribution of any political area - and of urbanisation - the process by which towns grow and by which, in recent history, an increasing proportion of the total population finds itself in those towns as distinct from the countryside and which in turn affects the issues of immigration, decentralisation and quality of life - must be recognised and given practical attention. 
There are many aspects of urbanism. In fact, they are almost too numerous to mention in any short speech on such a subject. However, we are dealing with the questions of building regulations, traffic control, the conservation of air and water supplies and the preservation of buildings and other objects which are worth preserving as an historic heritage. All these things, some of which are more peripheral than others, must be taken into consideration if we are to be concerned about urban environment. I mention in passing that I have made one such study, extending over about 8 years, of our smallest capital city, Hobart. To my knowledge, it is the most intensive study which has been made in this country and possibly anywhere of a single urban organism. So, I hope I know what 1 am talking about in havingsome cognisance of what happens in these areas, why it happens and what might be predicted to happen in the future. I believe that the time has long since passed when this Government or, for that matter, any other government, should take unto itself this problem in Australia. I do not agree completely with the manner in which people such as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  have been putting their views forward. For example, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  tends to cry havoc and to talk of crises in practically every respect and this is set against Utopian visions of what might be but what never was in any other place in the world. 1 believe that this is an unbalanced treatment of the problem which only impedes the essential tackling of it in the best possible way. 
As I suggested earlier, what we must do is assess the problem as it falls in our area. We should learn from other people's experiences and make judgments on the bases of scale and density, the amount of ill that is being done, what might happen and how it can best be controlled. We should stand on our own feet on this matter and not just import ideas as though the problems of Los Angeles, London, New York, Shanghai or wherever it might be were exactly the same as our own. I believe that we must follow a form to find out the things that we do not know. I think 1 can speak with reasonable authority in saying that there are things we do not know and things about which not enough is known by anybody in Australia to take any sensible action on them. It is not enough to advocate decentralisation without knowing its factual relationship or its predictable relationship to urbanism as it now is and as it might become. I believe we must conduct an inquiry of a very thorough - going kind, and I believe there is no better place for this inquiry to be conducted than in this House. The inquiry must be into such matters as future population distribution, the alternative forms of urban growth and the extent to which this Government should become involved in these matters. While making the last point, I do not believe that it is necessarily the province of the Federal Government to become a centralising authority and to take over the whole of this problem lock, stock and barrel. The expenditures involved might be enormous, but what we need to know is what should be done for the good of the country. We can talk later about who shall share the financial responsibilities and what should be done and at what rate it should be done. 1 should like to suggest in very simple terms what we need to look into. Firstly, we should examine the likely pattern of urbanisation in Australia by the end of this century, to take a date. Secondly, we should look into the implications of this for the utilisation of resources in Australia, because those implications do exist. Thirdly, we should look into the extent to which the Federal Government should encourage metropolitan growth or alternative forms of urbanism, or both. Lastly, perhaps, we should examine the likely cost of developments in fields such as urban transport and housing and also the related fields of decentralisation of industry and population. All these things are distinctly interrelated; in fact, it is impossible to unrelate them. One cannot proceed without the other. We cannot understand decentralisation or any proposal for decentralisation without understanding the forces of urbanism and the likelihood of moving those forces in another direction. Finally, I point out to honourable members on both sides of the House that the Greek word polis means a city, and politics can be loosely defined as the art of governing the city. There are few places in the world where a greater majority of people live in an urban environment than do Australians. So, I believe that a case has been fully established for an examination of this important area of environment, for the simple reason that the greatest number of people in this country will be affected by environmental changes in that particular area. The greatest number are involved in urban environments and by any predictions are likely to be. Therefore, despite all the problems of the countryside - and there are some in relation to agriculture and pesticide use and that sort of thing - the fact is that the quality of urban environment and the direction in which it is moving is the outstanding problem which remains for this or any other government in Australia to take on. 
It is very clear from the tenor of the previous speeches made in this debate that the speed of the move to self-government is a continuing theme in any discussion of the estimates, or the matters relating to the estimates, of the Department of External Territories and in particular of Papua New Guinea. I want, if I may, to take up that theme on at least 2 facets. But before I do, I would like to make a small allusion to what was said earlier on the other side of the chamber. I want to say only this: It would be foolish of me with limited experience indeed of the Territory to deny that all the things that honourable members opposite say are true. Clearly, they have made their own personal contacts on some occasions and some of their experiences undoubtedly bear the weight of that contact. But it does seem to me, in listening to a succession of speakers, that they do the cause of Papua New Guinea's self-government and independence some disservice in their highly selective criticism of what is in fact happening there. Again, I do not say that they are wrong; T say they are highly selective in what they choose to talk about. 
It is strange then that our Government members committee, for example, when it went to Papua New Guinea last March, found an almost total absence of the supposedly widespread criticism accorded the population there by, for example, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  That is not to deny that criticism does not exist. Of course criticism exists in a situation of an emerging, selfgoverning nation. But if we take up any of those points we have to draw attention to the fact that, for example, as has been said by honourable members on the other side of the chamber, there is a useful clan system in operation. Of course there is. But the other side of the ledger shows that the process of bringing forward to European standards of education, or the beginnings thereof, produces considerable conflict and gives rise to a considerable social problem as between the offspring of a particular family and their tribal parents. Two worlds become apparent in the educational sphere. So we cannot leave it at the fact that there is a useful clan system - and this has been so for some centuries - in operation in Papua New Guinea. 
It has been said that the people of Papua New Guinea can - and they say they can - run their own community. I have no doubt that might be so; but given the situation of United Nations pressure and Australian Labor Party pressure for ever increasing speed to self-government, the context is not one of running one's own stone age community. The context is one of running a community which is coming into the ambit of western sophistication - if that is the appropriate word - and the local people have shown very little aptitude for running, for example, their own land system which is perhaps as basic as any problem existing in the Territory. Therefore, until the people have proceeded part of the way along the road to westernisation and until certain values of land ownership, for example, are accepted, there remains a fundamental land problem which appears to be getting worse. So just let us qualify a little this apparently universal capacity of Papua New Guineans to run their own show in the face of international overtures, competition and international desire for investment. We cannot have it both ways. 
I want to speak on 2 matters only. One is the expatriate administration officers and the other is the potential regionalisation of government. The matter of expatriate administration officers and how officers are treated in the future is quite a critical one. It is certainly critical for those officers concerned. In the White Paper - if I may call it so - issued by the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  on 30th August 1971, which is entitled 'The Future Security of Permanent Overseas Officers of the Public Service', we have set out the options - they are 3 in number - open to the permanent overseas officers as they are called, or 'Poos' for short, if I may use a local term. They are in fact those who are eligible under the employment security scheme to take advantage of these options. There is not time in such a short contribution as this to examine the detail of these propositions, their validity, their beneficence or anything else, but what one must say is that on the face of it the options, the alternatives, appear to be quite generous. 
But in saying that one has to bear in mind that there are considerable reservations expressed by the people of the permanent overseas service in Papua New Guinea. It is difficult for me to say whether their fears, their reservations are justified in whole or in part. There does appear to be, and to have increased in the last 6 months or so since I was there, a certain lack of trust that this Government may implement and arrange those things which it wishes to implement and says it will arrange. I think it is perhaps unfortunate in relation to these negotiations in this matter of trust that the proposals put forward by the Minister appear to have been somewhat modified by the Cabinet. 
The amount of money to be involved ultimately is not known but it will probably be substantial; of the order of $50m or so. So we are not talking about peanuts. Nevertheless we are talking about the lives of people who in some cases have worked decades in the Territory and from my observations, whatever the observations of honourable members opposite might be, these men have had an almost universal dedication to the task in hand. I must say that I was considerably surprised to find the universality of the apparent inclination of these people to get out in favour of local people taking over their jobs in due course. So it is not surprising that when they get out, if they do, they want to get out under fairly substantially shored-up conditions. They have in mind, of course, the model of the British treatment of Britain's former colonial servants who were given very good treatment indeed. I think it must be said here that the conditions are probably a little different. The writing has been on the wall in Papua New Guinea for quite some time. It has been spelled out increasingly over the years, so that it is not quite the situation that the people have suddenly been confronted in the space of a year or two with a rush of nationalist movement. They have not suddenly found a Papua New Guinea equivalent of Kenya or some African State coming under other ownership. I think we need to bear that qualification in mind. 
But my main point here is that whatever this Government has decided or will decide shall be the terms under which the permanent overseas officers leave the Territory, if they wish, or stay there, if they wish, it is most important that there should be the utmost in negotiations, so that the best possible compromise can be achieved. In this way these people who have served New Guinea so well and who have served the arm of government in this country so well may come out of that Territory, if they do. with reasonable peace of mind and reasonable security in the future. 
The second point in relation to this movement to self-government that 1 want to make is this: Only the other day the question of regionalisation of government was brought up.  Mr Oala  Oala-Rarua in particular has advocated not only that there should be the Territory government in the House of Assembly - 1 presume there will still be the local government councils or their equivalent - but also there should be an intermediary level of government on a regional basis. If I remember correctly the 'Sydney Morning Herald' editorial this morning set out very well the problems involved in carrying out that proposal. I think I made mention of this in my last speech on the Territory. I believe that the situation now is as I saw it then. Who would wish on the Territory of Papua New Guinea or an independent Papua New Guinea with a couple of million people, having a substantial problem with large areas of land differentially occupied in terms of population density and even in land use, a 3-tier system of government which half the speeches in this House deal with as being a major problem of national operation? It seems to me that the local government councils, all, as far as I can see, astute bodies of people, represent local interests very well. The House of Assembly in a relatively small population should adequately be able to cull what there is on offer. I think there should be very great circumspection exercised in any possibility or contemplation in a serious vein of introducing a formalised and to that extent, once implemented, a relatively inflexible third or middle tier of government in so young a territory as Papua New Guinea. I very much hope that the present arrangement with whatever modifications may be necessary could be made viable and could continue that way without formalising or stiffening the situation any further than is absolutely necessary. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry may recall a question I asked his predecessor more than a year ago concerning the admission of South African citrus fruits to Japan and the possibility of Australian citrus and even pome fruits gaining similar entry. Can the Minister indicate whether this  possiblity  has become more likely, and if not, why not? 
This has been an incredible debate and I do not think any better word could be used to describe it. First of all, we come to it as one in a series of debates on the Estimates with a blank speaking list from the Opposition and a row of speakers from the Government Parties. The disarray was in due course brought under control when we saw the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  - the former shadow Minister for Immigration - leading for the Opposition. He proposes as the greatest diversion in Australia since the Snowy River project a joint select committee to look into the operation of the immigration programme. He then proceeded to cast before us a chameleon-like image, the coat of many colours - of the policy of the Labor Party as regards migration to this country. He went on to refer to a programme unchanged for  25  years, an unchange which has been collaborated in totally by the Labor Party until recent months. He identified ALP policy for us as from the Launceston Conference and he then proceeded in the rest of his speech to elaborate a number of things which the committee he proposes might investigate. 
The whole of this was a totally diversionary tactic away from the obvious disarray into which the Opposition has fallen in relation to this important aspect of Government or Opposition policy. I do not decry the constructive remarks made by, for example, the honourable members for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  and Corio  (Mr Scholes),  but this is merely incidental to the performance which we have seen tonight, and the object of the exercise is clearly to try to get together something of the previous unanimity or near unanimity, the lack of which now plagues the Opposition. If in fact this Liberal-Country Party Government has any problems with inflation they are only meagre compared with the problems which obviously are faced by the Labor Party - and the personalities in that Party which clash - on immigration policy. I want to deal with some of the prime subjects who are involved in this matter, not least the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  to whom reference was made on a number of occasions earlier in this debate. Let me quote him from just one recent pamphlet which he produced. In fact, I think it was reported in several newspapers. It reads: 
For political and diplomatic reasons the 1963 Federal Australian Labor Party Conference removed the words 'White Australia' from the Labor Party platform. We certainly did not try to water down the policy nor take the ideal of a White Australia from the hearts and minds of the 
Australian people. Nobody wifi ever be able  tj  do that,  Mr Daly,  MHR, has quoted the conference decision in full and interpreted it honestly. 
Australia, like every other country, has the inalienable right to determine the composition of its population, the rate of its development and the measures to be taken to guard its security. 
The right honourable member does say other things, as is well known to many members of this chamber. For example, in commenting on the gratuitous intervention of the British Race Relations Board and the gratuitous advice we go from them on the matter of immigration the right honourable member for Melbourne said this: 
It is for the Australian Government, and the Australian Government alone, to decide who shall and who shall not receive assisted passages or entry visas to this country - and (his has always been the case since Federation. 
He went on to say: 
I sympathise wilh the British people for the horrible mess which successive British governments have created by opening the floodgates to African, Indian and Caribbean migrants. 
So much for the right honourable member for Melbourne whose stance is, I think, fairly well identified by those quotations. Let us turn to the honourable member for Grayndler who so brilliantly attempted to divert us from his problems in this matter. Recently he said: 
The British political parties, both Conservative and Labour, have made a hell of a mess of immigration and now they appear to want to pass it on to us. I agree with the Government point of view th.it it is our responsibility and right lo decide who will comprise our population. The British Race Relations Board has no right to interfere with Australia or any other country. I see nothing to complain of in  Mr Lynch's  statement. 
He said further: 
I do not wish to get into an argument with  Mr Dunstan,  but 1 am firmly opposed to a multiracial society. Labor is for the preservation of a homogeneous society free from racial hatreds. 
In commenting in this House on immigration policy, in conjunction, in fact, with his Leader, the honourable member for Grayndler went further. He said that the term 'White Australia' had no place in the official vocabulary and policy as defined by him in  1 963.  He went on to say: 
But I maintain that Australia's immigration policy should bc based on the principle laid down by successive governments since Federation, that we need to maintain a homogeneous population. . . . Labor's policy is not a policy of open door, nor of a quota system. Asian workers  ought not to be admitted, nor qualified people who:e talents were needed in- their home county. 
So much for the honourable member for Grayndler. Another distinguished member of the Opposition,  Mr Allan  Fraser, commented on what the honourable member for Grayndler had had to say. On  Mr Fraser's  weekly radio and television programme he said that  Mr Daly  had every right to decide that the misinterpretation of his attitude to Labor's immigration programme had gone too far.  Mr Fraser  said that he was baffled by  Mr Whitlam's  moving an amendment to  Mr Daly's  motion seeking the right to speak, the amendment being that the Minister for Immigration should also have the right to speak. 
I come now to a man who is not a member of the Federal Parliament but who is influential in Labor's policy making in these areas. He is a new leftist, a man of very liberal ideas in a number of matters which I will not seek to identify in total here.  His  gratuitous advice on immigration to the Prime Minister of Singapore is fairly well known. I am referring to  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia, who sent to the Prime Minister of Singapore a telegram which referred to close and most effective ties between Singapore, South Australia and the Australian nation as a whole in trade, culture and lastly immigration. On being questioned about his attitude to these things,  Mr Dunstan  said: 
Australia must open its gates to people from any country in the world. We can no longer afford to bury- our heads ostrich like in isolation. A balanced annual intake of migrants would fit easily into the mainstream of life in the present Australian community. Australia can no longer afford to be' lumped with South Africa as a country basing its policy on racial discrimination. 
He also said that his policy would not lead to a brain drain from Asia .to Australia and that there would be an agreement with each country to get a balanced intake. He rejected claims that his statement would breach ALP immigration policy. Which way do we have it,  Mr Deputy  Chairman? On the one hand we have the utmost in liberality and then we have to qualify it, as  Mr Dunstan  went on to qualify it yet again in relating his remarks to Canadian and Hawaiian practice.  Mr Dunstan  said: 
The sensible, policy should be not that you just open the doors to unskilled- ' 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - There is no point of order. Any points made by the honourable member may be replied to by subsequent speakers. 
1 will now quote, as I have been doing - this time from the speech of the Leader of the Opposition made last Sunday in which he reiterated Labor's policy on immigration. The last 2 points are as follows: 
The avoidance of me difficult social and economic problems which may follow from an influx of people having different standards of living, traditions and culture . . . The avoidance df discrimination on any grounds of race, colour of skin or nationality. 
Blow me down,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  If those 2 statements are not in absolute opposition,, unless you care to interpret them as utterly superficial and meaningless, 1 cannot read English. On the one hand he says that we should not have any discrimination against anybody for any reason you care to mention. On the other hand he says that we should avoid all the social and economic problems which come from unnamed things like a lack of discrimination in social and similar matters. I have much more elaboration which the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  may care to have me incorporate in Hansard. I would be very pleased to do so. These are all direct quotes which set out where the Leader of the Opposition stands, if in fact he can tell where he stands. 
I stand exactly where the Government's policy has been enunciated in several ministerial statements, not least of which are those of  Mr Lynch  and his predecessor  Mr Snedden  within the last 2 years. The honourable member can read them. They are public documents. I reiterate that on the one hand we have the very liberal views of  Mr Dunstan  and the varying liberal views of  Mr Whitlam.  Against those we have the old hard line which most Australians would probably still subscribe to, as enunciated by the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  and the honourable member for Grayndler. The reconciliation of those 2 views is obviously impossible. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Does the Minister have available statistically reliable figures - and I emphasise the words 'statistically reliable' - showing the proportion of lives saved in automobile accidents by the use of seat belts relative to the proportion of lives spared by belts not being used? I have in mind the growing propensity of the States to make the wearing of seat belts compulsory, although the honourable member for 
Macquarie would not have rejoined us today or, indeed, at any time, had he been subject to that compulsion; neither would my friend, the honourable member for Griffith be here. 
(Quorum formed) I suppose there are few things in the Australian society that are more basic than the relationship between labour and management. It is a great misfortune that the situation in the Australian industrial area now is what I would regard as outdated by some decades. The situation has been exemplified, I believe, most recently by the inability of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and his shadow Minister for Labour and National Service, at least in their policy, to bring into being an operation which could be seen to be reasonably enlightened and to show some reasonable sense of responsibility in relation to agreements entered into between employers and employees. The fact that they were not able for more than a few days to sustain that particular introduction and amendment to policy is, I think, a terrible reflection on the inability of Labor mentality in this country to move in the direction which 1 believe, and which I believe the general public believes, is right. Perhaps the motivating mentality is the same kind of mentality which calls vexatious quorums in this House throughout the day, even to the point of interrupting a speech of a colleague. 
We know very well that nobody, no area, no group is singly responsible for industrial unrest in this or in any other country. It would be stupid to pretend that management here or anywhere else is perfect. Nevertheless the attempts made with and without the assistance of the Department of Labour and National Service, whose estimates we are now considering, as by the Productivity Promotion Council of Australia - although it still has a long way to go in the direction of getting smaller operators into the area of its operations - are the sort of attempts that are certainly working in the direction of improving productivity and industrial relations and all the things associated with those 2 subjects in this country. It is in the light of these trends and these efforts that it is a great misfortune, as I said earlier, that we should have a growing situation of strikes and unrest in industry in this country. It is nothing less than deplorable that the acclimatisation programme which has gone on since the earlier 1960s in the area of the white collar workers has been as effective as we have seen it become. 
The fact that this follows world trends in the direction of increasing strikes is little comfort for those who are affected by it. I mean in particular the public who have no part in these strikes. Perhaps the degree of operation in this direction into the area of semi-professional labour, and the seriousness with which the campaign is waged are indicated by the sorts of things that are produced against those who have genuine labour interests at heart but who do not share the decided left wing views of some of those who are responsible for the strikes from which we get adverse benefit. 1 have particularly in mind the sort of brochure, a copy of which I have with mc now, produced to denigrate the person of  Mr Harradine  at a recent conference which involved unions throughout the country. The things which are levelled against a person who works long and hard, as is generally known, in the direction of improving labour relations or the lot of tha working man, as he is sometimes called, are a great pity. The fact that he can be spoken of and written about as one who, by his own admission 'is a drop-out from the priesthood and a former executive member of the DLP' seems to have little place in genuine attempts to operate constructively in the area of labour relations and to the good of labour. These things are generally accepted by members of the community these days. Perhaps holding executive membership of the Australian Democratic Labor Party would not be common, but certainly dropping out from the priesthood and other institutions is very small peas as an allegation about somebody who is fully employed in the interests of his fellow working men. 
I could have a great deal to say about this brochure in the 5 minutes remaining to me, but I do not intend to do that. I just draw attention to those points to show how small minded this operation can become. Whether or not one spends time in a trade union movement or in the labour relations area in smearing the Harradines of this world because they are not sufficiently to the Left, the fact is that wages lost in Australian industry in 1970 were of the order of $30m. Shipping companies were down $20m or $30m in the space of a few weeks. (Quorum formed) 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - I did not hear any offensive remark, but if there was one-  r 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  If any offensive remark was made I ask that it be withdrawn. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member has been asked to withdraw a remark. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! No offensive remark was heard at the table. I call the honourable member for Denison. 
The state of puerility of honourable members opposite who continue to call vexatious quorums has deprived me of the better half of the time for my 10 minute speech. It proves the point I was making. This is what we are contending with. When people reach the stage of maturity when they can talk sensibly about issues with other people instead of making stupid and unnecessary interventions, perhaps industrial relations in this country will approach something near sanity. To attain the productivity which has often been spoken of in this House in recent times requires the co-operation of both sides of the industrial scene. I have made small mention of how the employeremployee area is trying to work in this direction with the assistance of the Department of Labour and National Service whose estimates we are discussing. It is not good enough that there is general disinterest in Australia, by general acknowledgement, compared with overseas interests, in productivity in the union area - the area of the workers. I sympathise with the workers who are so poorly led. I do not believe that the average Australian workman is as disinterested in his job as his leader tends to make him. But in fact this is a critical area and if Australia grows at something like  2i  per cent per annum of gross national product per worker as compared with the growth of 4 per cent or 5 per cent or more of countries like Italy, Japan and Scandinavia, that is not going to get us very far along the direction of greater prosperity for the Australian populace. 
Finally, because my time has been greatly taken, I should like to say that while the industrial relations area in the form of the trade unions contents itself with forcing compulsory unionism on people, with striking unnecessarily and with isolating States like Tasmania from the point of view of shipping and all that that implies in Tasmania, the situation will not improve in the direction in which I believe the Department of Labour and National Service is trying, in difficult circumstances, to make it improve. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. I draw the attention of the Minister to a recent statement by  Mr Justice  Gallagher to the effect that '. . . the availability of uniform legislation vo industrial authorities, State or Federal, exercising jurisdiction over employees generally could be of great advantage'. Bearing in mind that 40 per cent or so of the work force is under Federal awards could the Minister take measures to persuade the States along the course of introducing identical or similar legislation, to make easier the task of improving industrial relations in this area? 
Is the Treasurer aware that salary paid at the outset of long service leave which runs across 2 financial years is wholly taxable in the year of receipt? Does he know that this practice falls hard on migrants who commonly use their long service leave to revisit their homelands in the European spring and summer for which purpose their leave is taken in 2 financial years? Will the Treasurer provide for the Deputy Commissioners of Taxation to exercise discretion in this ma  Iter? 
I address a question to the Acting Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and industry. I want to explore a little further the subject of an earlier question which was asked of the Treasurer. Does the Acting Prime Minister regard as correct the implication, or suggestion, reported as having been made by the  Chairman  of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd that the downturn in demand for steel is representative of secondary industry generally? What are his views on this matter? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in south-west Tasmania, is threatened wilh inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, it implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area is of such beauty and scientic interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The bumble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area are of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideraation. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wildneress area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of Tasmania respectfully showeth: That they are deeply concerned about the plight of the East Pakistani refugees in India. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will immediately increase aid by $10 million and take the strongest possible diplomatic action through the United Nations and other channels to relieve the human tragedy nf Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education and Science. Has the Minister seen a newspaper report of his meeting last Saturday with the Council for the Defence of Government Schools in Tasmania which represents him as saying that the amount of indirect aid to non-State schools is not fully known? Is this report correct? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that the most common fee for multiple testing of blood or serum on a multi-channel analyser has been reduced from Si 5 to S5 whilst the fee for a single manual analysis remains  $7?  Is it also a fact that the common fee for blood counts on an automated haematology system has been reduced from about $8 to $2.50? Does this drastic change in benefits reflect the opposition of the Australian Medical Association to a greatly improved technology which when operated by non-profit organisations competes with individual pathologists? Is not this change in most common fees a retrograde step which increases the cost of medicine to the Government and to the community? 
My question Ls addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the honourable gentleman aware that if the child of a totally and permanently incapacitated pensioner is treated in a private hospital rather than a public one, the pensioner's entitlement card is inoperative and the pensioner must pay? Is he aware that the Department of Health has no discretion in the matter, irrespective of whether the private hospital was used inadvertently or on medical advice, and whether the condition was in urgent need of treatment? Bearing in mind that TPI pensioners are not normally members of hospital benefit funds, will the Minister have something done about the situation? 
The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  in a somewhat untypical rambling speech, on his own admission, roved quite widely beyond the field covered by this Bill. But nevertheless I do not accuse him of utter irrelevance because when he talks about the question of $1 from the Commonwealth for $1.85 from the States in the matter of universities finance he is, of course, talking of actualities, lt may well be that the total acceptance of tertiary education by the Commonwealth to the exclusion of other bodies may in fact be a sensible proposition. I think 1 could say reasonably that it has not been beyond the comprehension or the exercise of thought of supporters of the Government. Nevertheless that is not really the issue at stake at the moment, although I suppose that it can be projected from this Bill that the whole question of Commonwealth educational responsibility might be brought into issue. The question of defence expenditure is, I think, almost totally irrelevant. 
The problem here was one of making good discrepancies between university budgets and expenditures in the triennium 1970-72. The reason for the problem that occurred was that non-academic, nonteaching salaries and wages did not rise automatically or were not provided for automatically as were academic salaries by other means. The result has been that after submissions to the Australian Universities Commission and after strong persuasion by that body, as I think the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  mentioned in his second reading speech, the Commonwealth has provided supplementary finance for the purpose of nonacademic salaries. I cannot give the position of all universities but the University of Tasmania budgeted for roughly a 4 per cent annual increase in these salaries. This was found to be inadequate to the extent of about $800,000 for the 1970-72 triennium. 
One of the problems which remain, is that the total of State and Commonwealth finance now coming forward as a result of this Bill in the case of the University of 
Tasmania runs at around $420,000 or not much more than half of that which it identifies as being needed in this triennium. Of course it is not quite as simple as that. There certainly appears even at this point that there will be ah inadequacy after this legislation comes into effect But we do of course have the problem of rates of increase and just how much these should be. It is well known in this chamber that universities have increased their population of both teaching staff and students at an unprecedented rate in the last 2 decades and probably in particular the last one, and provision on the whole has been made for that. It is not relevant, nor would it be possible, in this debate to question the whole business of the relationship of these increases to the increased amounts of finance that have been made available. Nevertheless it is true to say that basically those increases have been sufficiently underpinned, even at one or two stages very well underpinned, by the Commonwealth's greatly increased expenditure in this field. 
That of course still leaves us with the problem of just how efficient the universities are in the management of their finances. I think most people outside universities would see them as fairly inefficient institutions. Some of us who have been inside them for some time would likewise see them as reasonably inefficient in the manner in which they go about some of their increases in staff and their developments of one sort or another. Whether that makes them in any sense unique in this community I doubt. Tn fact I think it is probably fair to say that the inefficiencies of universities are certainly no more than the inefficiencies of this institution, and that may be a case for improving the efficiency of both. 
However, as I say, I do not think we can examine that problem thoroughly here but it is one which is relevant. So I think that because of the great demands that are being made increasingly on the Commonwealth in the whole field of education, some of them justifiable, some of them less so, it will be incumbent upon the universities - I think they have recognised this already - to tighten up to the best of their ability, subject only the difficulties of the human condition and the manner in which we operate our democratic processes through committees and the like, the manner in which they spend their money, both salaries and other forms of expenditure, so that it is expended in the best and least wasteful possible ways. 
Having said that, I do not want lo take up an undue amount of time. I believe we are very far behind schedule. I merely want to make the point that welcome as this Bill is, recognised as is the problem which has brought about the Bill, the problem is not totally solved and it will require both this Government and the State Governments, and in fact the universities themselves, to work with considerable enthusiasm to ensure that this problem does not recur more or less incessantly, which is something about which, I think, the honourable member for Fremantle was somewhat apprehensive. In that sense I join with his sentiments in that matter. 
I  want to confine my remarks almost entirely to the Bill about  which the honourable  member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  spoke. Quite clearly, as the honourable member said, this is an extremely important move, although I do not think it is such a centralising move as the honourable member for Fremantle suggested. After all, we have in operation already - in fact, over some years now - the Advisory Committee on Advanced Education. It is now to take another name. I suppose there is some aura of added authority in the title  of  Australian Commission on Advanced Education. However, I doubt whether the increase in power at the centre is as great as the honourable member for Fremantle suggested. It seems to me to be the logical thing to do. My equivocations, my qualifications or queries are rather of the kind which the honourable member for Fremantle made and are directed in particular towards the role of these colleges as alternatives to the universities. 
I think it is fair to say, with due deference to the foresight  or the accession to  demands as they then stood  of the Commonwealth  to enter this field and to regularise this field of alternative tertiary education to that provided by  the  universities, that the Commonwealth was not entirely clear at the time of the setting up of these colleges as to just what their function was to be, and in fact - I may do somebody an injustice - I am not quite sure that we are entirely clear what their function is even now. I see as the point to be made most here in relation to this Bill that the Commonwealth, or rather now the Commission, should see it as a prime duty, and no doubt it will, to regularise and to rationalise as much as is possible the role of these advanced colleges which it is to administer, because we have sufficient difficulty in providing the unending infinite demands for expenditure on education without having any unnecessary overlap as between universities and the advanced colleges. In that sense I am pleased to see that the Minister for Education and Science mentioned in his second reading speech and, in fact, in his second reading speech on the Australian Universities Commission Bill, that both these bodies, the Australian Universities Commission and the Australian Commission on Advanced Education, are obliged to consult one with the other, presumably concerning their modus operandi, the matters of education which they wish to control and the direction in which they would like to see the institutions for which they are responsible going. So if those things act as they read then I think we can welcome this Bill with very little qualification, only to say that it is a most rapidly growing field. 
The Minister has drawn attention to expenditure of a little over $100m in 1967-69 rising to $250m in 1970-72. There are nearly SO institutions to be administered by the new Commission and clearly this is a most significant area of Australian education which is blossoming. I do not want to take up the time of the House to launch into a long speech in the direction of educational philosophy, which might be appropriate to this occasion, because really I think this is adding another name, and perhaps a little more force, to the title of a pre-existing body. Provided that it does the sorts of things which I am sure the members of that Commission are aiming to do, of the kind I have just mentioned, this will be an important step in the right direction for Australian education. Finally, as to the question of the Australian Universities Commission Bill, the addition of a second full time member to take the title of  deputy chairman  of the board, without any detailed knowledge of my part of how necessary it is, would appear to be a logical step in a body which on the whole I think would be seen by the universities, by the 
Government and by others to have done a fairly good job over the period of its existence. In fact, that is probably faint praise. It in fact has made a much more rational situation for the universities of this country and those who have worked in them certainly would know of the advantage that has brought, particularly in the smaller universities which have been less able to fend for themselves and which, before the existence of the Australian Universities Commission, had to wait before they were able to follow in the footsteps of their larger brethren. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area are of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate  steps to act  on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wildneress area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Has the Prime Minister seen the alternative structure for the government of Australia recently proposed by the Leader of the Opposition? Does he share my concern that the 3 separate levels of assembly proposed - firstly for national and international affairs, secondly for the major cities, and thirdly for rural areas - appear to deny, among other things, the close inter-relationship which exists between rural and urban economies and between internal and external trade? 
I agree completely with those honourable members who have preceded me in this debate that this is an extraordinarily important question. We are now near the point in time when our relationship with this Territory of Papua New Guinea will be affirmed for all time. Perhaps one should illustrate how important this is in another sense. In a newspaper article only this week Colin Clark drew attention to a test that was carried out among third year international law students. It showed that 25 per cent of them thought that Papua was a province of Indonesia. Even though they were only law students they were students of international law, and it would seem that there is a great deal of room, as the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  has suggested, for the ventilation of this subject both inside and outside this Parliament. 
I forget. Adelaide, I think. What we have before us is a proposition which we discussed in part earlier this year when it was more tentative. The proposal was that there be 18 regional members of the Papua New Guinea Parliament - there are now 15 and there were 10 in 1964. And it was proposed that there be 82 members for open electorates; there are 69 now and there were 44 in 1964 for the then reserve electorates. It was further proposed that there be 4 official members appointed by the Administrator; there are now 10 and there were 10 in 1964. And finally that there be up to 3 members nominated by the House of Assembly for special purposes or for groups to be represented. 
It is interesting that the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  has dropped his previous opposition earlier this year to the regional members, although in making that criticism, I believe he is being completely consistent because if one turns to the debates on the establishment of the House of Assembly in Papua New Guinea in 1963 one finds that the honourable member and his Party were opposed to the reserve electorates and wanted a proliferation of the open electorates which then numbered forty-four. So there is complete consistency in his attitude. But the Opposition now focuses its attention on the manner in which the Ministerial representation on the Administrator's Executive Council shall get there. It is entirely proper that the Opposition should do this and, at the risk of becoming over-flowery, I would compliment the honourable member for Fremantle and the honourable member for Wills on the high level of responsibility they have shown in this debate. Not that they are unused to showing that degree of responsibility in debates of this kind but it indicates their high level of interest in the subject, not to mention their familiarity with it, and this is particularly so of the honourable member for Fremantle. 
Nevertheless, there is a danger that both honourable members may find themselves throwing dust at the wheels of policy as they roll past, because it is impossible for them - and particularly for me because I do not claim the familiarity with the area that they have, although at the same time one can read and make judgments from comparative situations  -  to know with any certitude that the system which is proposed by the Territorians is inferior to any alternative proposed by the Opposition. 
That is correct, but the very fact that the silence was there and noted can only really be taken to suggest that there was no very strong feeling to the contrary. I have not been in Papua New Guinea since March. My colleague the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  who has spoken very well on the subject on other occasions and again tonight, has recently been in close contact with people there as, of course, has the Minister. There is little doubt that there is a genuine wish in Papua New Guinea to retain this link with the Administration as it is now, roughly speaking, in appointing Ministerial representatives in the way which is suggested. I do not suggest that I am absolutely right about this because I have no way of knowing. But I also have no way of knowing, and assume to the contrary, that there is any undue pressure being placed upon those people who have either left a vacuum because of the silence or who have promoted and proposed otherthings. I do not see that this is a poor proposition; I do not see that it is necessarily a dangerous proposition. And I certainly do not see that it represents the last vestiges of feudalism, as the honourable member for Wills said. 
Nevertheless, I believe that honourable members are justified in questioning the proposition. What I question is that they can with any certainty believe that their amendment is any more effective or representative of what we want for those people and what they want for themselves than is the proposition which has been put forward. I really believe that we have to leave the matter at that and, sympathetic as I am to what motivates them - it is not a question this time of Party politics but of a belief in a particular subject - I do not consider that there is sufficient evidence for me to agree to the amendment. As far as the whole structure of representatives, open electorates, and regional electorates and so on is concerned, the most minor of these categories gives me some little concern - it is only little - and that is the provision for special groups. I am' always a little wary of special groups being catered for, whether they be women, experts or any other type of person. It seems to me to be strange that given 100 or so members, these people could be so out of touch with their wives, relatives, constituents or anybody else that they need these areas of expertise. Incidentally, that figure is very close to the figure first thought of nearly 10 years ago by the United Nations committee, followed quite closely by the thinking of the honourable member for Fremantle. Nevertheless, that may be so and again one is in a difficult position to say with any certainty that the provision is useless, obnoxious, irrelevant or dangerous. So I suppose we can hardly oppose it on any strong grounds. I draw attention to it and wonder whether there is any necessity for it, even though it does not specify a particular number but only a maximum number of three. 
I do not think that you,  Mr Speaker,  would allow me to range as widely over related matters in Papua New Guinea as did the honourable member for Fremantle who has a great deal of experience in this matter and, if I might say so, left me lamenting, apart from his amendment, on exactly where we were supposed to go. This is not because anything he said was imprecise but because he said so much. He still favours the Swiss Cantonal Parliamentary system for Papua New Guinea. I wish I knew enough about it to agree or disagree strongly with him. He suggests that the balance of forces therein would work against dictatorship. That may be so, although it is difficult to see how under the present structure, and given its reasonable continuity, it would be conducive to any forms: of dictatorship in emerging countries. One would not think the whole modus operandi, not to mention the modus vivendi, of the relationship between Australia and its trust Territory would give rise to anything approaching an inclination to dictatorship in Papua New Guinea; but I suppose it is wise to take account of any possible contingency. 
The honourable member for Fremantle also draws attention appropriately to the contrast between the highland and lowland areas of Papua New Guinea. I do not believe that it is within our capacity, or for the moment the capacity of the Territorians, to make a great impact on this. It may well be that we should think in terms of special provisions for the highland population, whether or not they are socially conservative. We know from the survey of the constitutional committee that they are relatively conservative compared with their lowland counterparts. But this is something which will really be in the hands or within the province of the people who run Papua New Guinea from now on. I believe there is nothing very much that we can do to implement anything very effective in this regard. That may be  a  little pessimistic, it may be opting out a little bit soon, and I suppose that, seeing we are still footing the bill to a considerable extent for the trust Territory, the point may well be taken up at another time. Certainly I agree with the honourable member on what appears to be a minor point but which is a striking one when one visits the Territory, and more especially, I think, for the first time. I refer here to the question of the rather inverted sense of values in relation to building materials and the like. It seems almost nothing short of criminal - certainly aesthetically - to find second rate imported materials being used in the dwelling places of the territorians in lieu of the very suitable materials which tone in exactly with the environment. The physical environment - the almost primaeval environment - is so close at hand in most cases that in fact it is more than a little affront to the senses to see the matter which the honourable member previously raised. 
I have no intention of taking up my full time merely for the sake of doing so, but I would like to draw attention to one point which I made earlier and in doing so was somewhat critical perhaps of the honourable member for Fremantle. I refer to the question of open and regional membership. I draw attention, for example, to one of the number of cogent points made by the honourable member for Fremantle inthe 1963 debate where, for instance, he said:  . . it  should be  a  Parliament which will produce a sense of nat'onal unity in a geographically and linguistically fragmented country. 
I do not think there is much to debate about that point. The country certainly is both things - geographically and linguistically fragmented. However, I believe that one way in which to minimise the fragmentation is to have this - I was going to say a 2-level; I suppose it is - integrated system of overriding or containing regional electorates and a greater number of open electorates - roughly speaking, 5 open electorates to each regional electorate. To me that is a system which should - I cannot vouch for the fact thatit does - minimise the fragmentary character of the character of the populations in the areas of this Territory. I think that only experience will show whether the development which takes place makes that anachronistic. Certainly at the moment I do not know of any evidence which suggests that this is something working contrary to the honourable member for Fremantle's aspiration of some eight or so years ago. So I think this is probably a good thing. I hope that it works in that way. 
The increase in the number obviously gives a slightly wider range of representation, and while the number of open electorates has never quite approached the greatest number wished for by some of the Territory's well-wishers, nevertheless it is now around the figure which the United Nations thought up first, on some basis oi other, nearly 10 years ago. I think that in this regard we probably have gone, and the Territory has gone, a very considerable way towards achieving what  Mr Hasluck,  as he then was, wished for the Territory in the 1963 debate which I think is of no little relevance to the situation now. 
I would like to close what I have to say tonight by quoting part of what he said then: 
. I should like to say that this step is regarded by the Government as opening new opportunities for co-operation in the common task between the Territory and Australia, with the Territory in a better position than ever before to be active in its own interests. 
Whatever our disagreements on points of detail, I do not really think that in the potential for the execution of that particular vision there is any notable variance whatsoever between those members who have spoken in this debate across the chamber, nor for that matter members on either side of the chamber. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and Science. Is the Minister aware of the view being put daily to this House that scholarships should be awarded on the basis of need rather than academic ability? Does he agree that, whatever its humanitarian motivation, it is a misconception which is anathema to those who believe that ability is society's greatest asset and which, if put into effect, could strike at the very roots of national progress? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Defence. In view of a reported request by the Tasmanian Premier for upgrading the. status of .Tasmania Command and the restoration of the traditional 40th Infantry Battalion in Hobart and the 12th Infantry Battalion in Launceston, can the Minister indicate what progress has been made in this matter? 
As I understand the burden of the complaint of the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  it is that this Government and various preceding governments of Australia and of the States are responsible for the population distribution of Australia. Unfortunately in the main I believe that is not so although there are certain things which governments might do to try to redistribute the population in some measure. I find myself in the position of being able to commend the honourable member for Corio in, I think, one respect only and that his proposition, real or implied, that a national view of this sort of thing is desirable. 
I agree with that implicitly. However, I think that the honourable member fails to recognise some very substantial historical and geographical underpinnings of the situation which he has described and deplored in his speech this morning. The honourable member suggests that this is a major issue, and that is perfectly correct. He suggests that it is a major issue because of government inactivity. I do not want to traverse at this particular time the longish history of the distribution of population and the extent of urbanisation in Australia, or for that matter anywhere else, because it is a worldwide phenomenon. But the plain fact of the matter is that this country was settled through 6 port settlements which became towns and cities. Various other developments took place, notably in the economic life of the areas over which the port settlements came to have domination. Therefore population concentrated on those 6 centres. 
Unlike the United States of America, which I think is the best comparative example which I can make, we have continued in that way. There has been a concentration, or perhaps an overconcentration and influence on and by 6 port capitals. In the United States there was a population movement westward. . Railways preceded the development of settlements and various centres were set up so that there was an urban frontier as well as a rural frontier in the early part of the 19th Century. The population moved on to the west coast and then something approximating the coastal distribution of population in Australia came into being. But in the meantime the middle of the American continent, which was basically settleable, had become settled. That was not the case inAustralia for reasons which are all too obvious to members of this chamber and to those outside it. So do not let us try to pin this thing on this Government or any other government. 
There are other aspects of the matter on which, I hope, I will have time to dilate. However, basically what the honourable member for Corio was talking about is the process of urbanisation, which used to be called the rural-urban drift, by which people have increasingly concentrated in cities. This has happened not just in Australia. The process of urbanisation occurred in some ways in other parts of the world before it took place in Australia. Attention was drawn to this phenomenon in a notable work before the turn of the century. This work made considerable reference to the distrubition of population in. this process of urbanisation in Britain, Europe and elsewhere, but notably in Britain and Europe. So, initially, we are not talking really of provincial centres and regional development; we are talking about the process of urbanisation because from that stem any problems that may exist in provincial centres and in regional development. This area was touched on only lightly by the honourable member for Corio. In that sense I would criticise the honourable member's terms of reference, although he fundamentally is trying to do something which is sensible. But I believe that he puts gorward a too narrow term of reference for the consideration of this problem because the problem stems from the metropolitan situation and only from there, and after that, one may come up with certain rural problems. 
The extent of urbanisation in Australia is well known, lt is not necessarily well known in degrees of particularity. I would like, if 1 may, to incorporate in Hansard a small table based on census statistics relating to the 6 State capitals. I will draw attention to it later in 2 or 3 sentences. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="075131197112090_21_1.jpg"></graphic>

The document merely shows how certain functions are concentrated in the capital cities. I do not wish fo dilate upon the whole matter. Although the figures are slightly dated, the relativity is roughly the same and we get the following kind of situation. Firstly 56 per cent of the population of New South Wales was concentrated in Sydney at the time of the 1961 census. Some 57 per cent of the retail activity and 73 per cent of the manufacturing jobs were concentrated in that city. That sort of situation can be reproduced through 4 other capital cities. The only exception is Hobart where, at the same date, 33 per cent of the population, 40 per cent of the retailing activity and 32 per cent of the manufacturing jobs were concentrated. Tn other words, there is in Australia only one example of actual decentralisation in operation. It has occurred, as it were, naturally. There is governmental influence but it has not occurred basically because of governmental influence. 
This situation has occurred because the island of Tasmania was settled simultaneously through 2 centres - Launceston in the north and Hobart in the south. Tasmania even developed one or two other coastal centres of reasonable standing. As a result the island developed a decentralisation of various functions, not the least manufacturing, which has not been reproduced in any other States. This is the basic reason why we have the situation about which the honourable member for Corio complains. In saying that I do not suggest that it is impossible for governments to do anything about the matter, nor that it should be. But I find the honourable member somewhat less than factual when he makes certain suggestions. In fact, I am surprised that he concentrated on Victoria in this matter. I say that for several reasons, one of them being that the honourable member comes from that State. 
He suggests that there is a great Victorian Government emphasis on "Melbourne to the detriment of the rural areas. Whether or not that is so 1 cannot prove in the course of the next 5 or so minutes, but the plain fact of the matter is that for governmental or other reasons, Victoria has the densest average distribution of population of any Australian State, including Tasmania, lt could even bc said - from some points of view that Victoria has the best population distribution in a balanced fashion which is partly a reflection on the fact that most of the countryside is able to be occupied and worked in some sort of way. I do not think I have found myself in a position before of making a brief for the Bolte Government but I would like to point out that the Liberal government of Victoria for some time have consistently tried all forms, of manufacturing and industrial locational incentives to get decentralisation moving in Victoria to a greater extent than already exists. So it is less than fair to suggest that the Government is willy-nilly interested in the promotion of Melbourne to the detriment of the " rest of Victoria. 
If we turn to this Government- and taking up the same point made by the honourable member for Corio - we clearly have example after example of governmental legislation, sometimes fully supported, sometimes supported to a lesser degree and sometimes even opposed in certain respects by those on the opposite side of the chamber, to assist rural industries. A substantia) proportion of our recent sessions has been taken up by measures to support rural industries. If the honourable member does not think that these measures have been designed to keep people on the land and in country towns I am not sure what he thinks they are designed to do. In the last few months we had a Bill - and other Bills have also been introduced - designed to keep the Shepparton cannery in operation for the sole purpose, one. assumes, of retaining the population in that centre instead of having it drift in the direction of Melbourne or some other capital city. Therefore I think the honourable member does less than justice, to put it mildly, to both Federal and State Governments as I have shown by a couple of examples in relation to this problem. 
Decentralisation is an important matter. 1 believe that the honourable member who preceded me completely failed to appreciate the difficulties of achieving it. In the first place Australia has a great lack, by world comparisons, of medium sized towns and medium sized regional centres for tha reasons which I spoke of earlier in reference to the United States. He failed also to take account of the fact that possibly the most against decentralisation is that there is a lack of differential labour costs which is not the situation in the United States. In that country there are regional disparities in costs and one can employ people in the south east for about 70 per cent of the wage than would have to be paid for labour in New York or on the west coast. Clearly this is an incentive to decentralisation. It is an incentive to put industry down in the south east because the wage bill is a good deal less. If an industry is a labour intensive industry such as the textile industry, so much the better. We do not have the advantage, if it is an advantage, of an incentive for decentralisation. I think that in a speech delivered on another occasion I drew attention to a small experiment which took place in Townsville about a year ago. That place is probably one of our better examples, and one of our few examples, of significant decentralisation outside the capital cities. 
A governmentally established industrial estate was set up at the cost of something like $600,000 and a year or so after having been set up it had placed on it one tilemaking industry employing, I think, 3 or 4 people at the time. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! As it is now 2 hours after the time fixed for the meeting of the House, tha debate is interrupted. 
Motion (by  Mr Garland)  agreed to: 
That the lime for the discussion of notices  be  extended until 12.45 p.m. 
The situation is that certain efforts, which have been made over quite a long period of time in some cases to achieve decentralisation, have not been notably successful. In fact, at the base of the problem - I am not suggesting that an attempt cannot be made to solve the problem - there is the situation to which I havedrawn attention during my earlier remarks. Firstly, there has been historical, followed by geographical, inertia in which it is well nigh impossible or, at least, very difficult to move people off their pitch. If they arc well established with all their ramifications and industrial links and so on,, it is difficult to move them from where they are, and where they , are usually happens, to be the metropolitan, areas. I draw attention to other moves, which are [not exactly governmental moves, such as the new States movement. Look what happened to the New England new State movement. That could have been regarded as a popular move to decentralisation and the proliferation of Slates because our too few Slates or too many, however one regards' it,. is the. basis of our State-Federal problem in Australia.. However, that was, for whatever reasons, unsuccessful. So, I hope . I have made the point; it is not easy to decentralise. 
In the few minutes remaining to me I should like to discuss how decentralisation may be achieved. There '.are, of course, many ways in which that can be done. I think probably the most telling factor would be, in a sense, a negative one. When the big cities reach a stage where economies of scale no longer operate and become diseconomies there will probably be the greatest incentive to . decentralisation. It was nm found in places like New York that those factors of diseconomy operated in any significant way until the populations reached at least 5 million and. in the case of New York, about 1.0 million. One or two people looking at Australia on a comparative basis with the United States certainly have come to the conclusion that those diseconomies are not likely to operate significantly in Sydney or Melbourne until they reach populations of the order of 5 million people. So. what are we left with? On the positive side, are the creation of manufacturing incentives and the making of incentives for service provisions. In fact, the latter may be more important than manufacturing incentives. Certain studies have shown that, in fact, people look lo areas - this is well known, I think - where their children can have a good schooling, where they have good access to markets and to their shopping provisions and so on. It may be that if governmental influence were to come to bear on creating service provisions before manufacturing provisions in certain decentralised places, more may;, be achieved. Nevertheless that is difficult .and it brings in .certain, other concepts of - a technical kind involving service functions which are regarded by geographers arid, others as basic functions on the one hand, and non- . basic on the other. The basic Junctions are those which .are city-growing and suburban forming functions./ The non-basic ones are those which . merely' serve the populations which are there.. There is no time. for me. to dilate upon that. 
I was disappointed that -the honourable member for Corio did not speak more of regional 'development and' did not appear to . show an understanding that regions usually- operate in a context of what are  called 'nodal regions, operating but of or dominated or influenced by: focal points. Again, :-we lack these focal -points. There may ;be. a case to stimulate : them but in stimulating ; them we face certain difficul-, ties. Finally, perhaps one should draw attention,. as 1 did in a question a week or so ago, to the proposition of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  which no doubt he will expand upon later in this debate, in regard to governmental proposals and -new structures of government which, from., my. reading of them, appear to divorce., the. rural areas from the urban areas. In fact, this would cut right across . the. whole functional basts of. regional development which is an integration of urban operation and of rural operation.  "Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)  - Order! The honourable member's timehas e'p:red. 
My question is addressed to the PostmasterGeneral and concerns colour television. Can the PostmasterGeneral give an estimate of the cost to the government of its introduction? Does he believe that it will in any significant way enhance the quality of life in Australia? Does he not find it strange that those in our society who consistently complain of inadequate government expenditure in social welfare areas have found this unessential expenditure unworthy of protest? 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the concerted campaign to have the Commonwealth intervene in the Gordon River power development in Tasmania to prevent the drowning of Lake Pedder? As the Lake Pedder conservationists now seek as a last resort to make members of this House electorally responsible for the decisions of 2 successive Tasmanian governments, will the right honourable gentleman indicate the status of the Commonwealth in this matter? 
I present the following petition from certain misguided citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the need's of government education services has established serious  deficiencies in education, the most important areas being a severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation, and, as a result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently required to save the government school system. 
That while the needs of the government schools are being neglected, large amounts of public money are being given, in various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to make emergency Federal finance available to the States for State school education, and divert the large sums of public money being spent on private schools, to the government school system for which the government is specifically responsible. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation concerns flight schedules under the 2 airline policy. Is the Minister aware that on Monday evenings I and some colleagues can now be found at Melbourne Airport between 5.15 p.m. and 8.20 p.m. rather than 7 p.m. as previously? Does he know that after this rest period we have the helpful choice of 2 airlines on which to fly to Canberra? Is he aware that this typifies our whole airline schedule pattern, which strikes most Australians and all overseas travellers as absurd? Will he urge the Minister whom he represents to proceed with a reassessment of the system, preferably in the form of the White Paper mentioned in the Senate 2 weeks ago? 
One would have to go a long way to find a worse rag bag of misrepresentation, misinterpretation, persiflage, cotton wool and sheer unadulterated ignorance than we have heard in the preceding speeches from the other side of the House. That is a great pity because the subject about which honourable members opposite have been talking is one of considerable importance. As we agreed when we touched, on 9th December of last year, on a similar subject, the question of the distribution of population in this country is of the first order of importance. I will congratulate honourable members opposite to this extent: The subject they have on this occasion is a wee bit sharper than it was on 9th December last. Beyond that I do not think I can go. 
The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  talks to us about Canberra being an isolated - in fact I think he means unique also - example of decentralisation. Having stated that point he berates this Government for not having done any more about it. He fails to fill in the gaps and to tell us that this is the only area, bar one - the Northern Territory - where we have Federal government responsibility. So, in other words, he is saying that where our responsibility lies we are providing the one and only good example of what he wants to happen. If that is a condemnation of this Government, I am surprised. At the same time it does not invalidate the sort of proposition which he might have put, if only he could have. However, let us take this matter a little further. The honourable member wants to see a Sydney-Melbourne corridor of development - a corridor which has been paralleled in one or two other parts of the world by accident rather than by design. He mentions the case of Albury-Wodonga, which the Leader of the Opposition would like to see developed and so on. But he leaves' it in a sense at that, because he does not tell us what happens when Albury-Wodonga reaches a population of 500,000 instead of 100,000, or whatever the figure might be. Nor does he do so for Canberra and that, of course, provides problems for the future. 
However, let us leave those examples where they are at the moment and go a little further, because the crux of what the honourable member was trying to say, whether it is possible to do or not, was that we are going to pay for ali of these things. We are going to pay for reduced Post Office charges, for low-cost .'easehold land, for upgraded transport and all the rest. We are going to pay for them by reducing expenditure on urban renewal areas. I think I have interpreted him aright when 1 say that. It is a great pity that the honourable member said that, because there are ways and means of paying for this sort of thing. But I would have thought, if he finds urban areas such dens of crises as he seems to suggest by his public statements, and the statements of his leader, then what worse area to pick than urban renewal for finding the money? I say this because if we are going to stick with the cities - and I am afraid we are stuck with them and the greater population will be there for a long time to come whatever we do; that is not an argument for doing nothing because they will be there - then urban renewal in the inner areas of cities is a much more profitable enterprise than continued expansion at the periphery because the very fact of expansion at the periphery brings in, to turn a phrase, the tyranny of distance which we have heard much of, and it much plagues economics and economies - the would-be economies - of this country. 
If we want to spend money in urban areas, rebuild the areas next door to the central business district. Do not put people 40 miles out so they will have to travel this distance every day to work. 
As far as I know, the honourable member's heart is in the right place. It is a great pity that he and his team have put it all the wrong way around. This is dangerous in the sense that what they say is persuasive to the electorate. Certainly this is a persuasive proposition in general terms. But when we look at particularities which honourable members opposite are suggesting that we do, or that we have failed in not doing, we really are in difficult country. It would be a great pity indeed if any government were to per petrate this sort of action in the ways suggested - not in any way mind you, but in the way suggested. 
Let me move for a moment from this dangerous lack of understanding of the issues among honourable members opposite, I pass by on the wayside as it were the points raised by the Opposition's second  speaker,  my friend the honourable member from north of Sydney who fails to live - I hope 1 do not do him an injustice and I am sure he will correct me if I do - in his electorate. 
I will just put a question mark. If that is so I am perfectly happy to take the honourable member's assurance that he no longer lives in the metropolitan area and probably only has his business there now. Nevertheless, one would like other people such as the honourable member to show considerably more personal interest in the carrying out of these decentralisation proposals. But let me come to the problem because, as I said earlier, this is a very important problem. One of the literati - I think it was Rousseau, but it really does not matter very much - said: 'Towns are the dwelling places of profane mortals; the gods inhabit rural retreats'. As I understand him the honourable member for Reid and his team subscribe to that proposition. They think that the areas of crisis are the cities. They continue to live in them because it provides them with a good living. I know that they represent a lot of very good people in the cities, but they do not rush out to join all of those godlike creatures in the rural environment in the hinterland. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said on 20th August 196S: 'Cities and civilisation go hand in hand'. He was absolutely right because whatever problems have been discovered in cities these days - and unfortunately far too often they are transferred immediately from New York or London to Sydney or Melbourne without any cognisance of the problems of scale or anything associated with that - nevertheless it can be seen by anybody with a smattering of historical knowledge that civilisation has in fact gone, hand in hand with the development of cities from the city states down, from Greece to the present day. The fact that we have now reached a very large size and have attendant problems with congestion and all the rest of it does not gainsay the point. But all the higher features of the development of man over the last several hundred and probably couple of thousand of years have in fact emanated from concentrations of people in urban areas, ultimately in cities and finally, adding somewhat to our problems, in conurbations. 
The 4 propositions honourable members opposite put are these: Firstly, there is Government failure in this area. Secondly, they want to create regional development areas, so called. Thirdly, they want to arrest rural depopulation. Fourthly, they want to slow down capital city growth. Apart from the first of those which my friend, the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer),  and other honourable members have touched upon, that is to say the question of Government responsibility, the propositions can be taken together and, given the short time allowed for this debate, I will do that. Firstly, there is the question of Government responsibility. What we have is a State government responsibility for areas within their confines - a constitutional responsibility. The honourable member for Reid plugs the question of Canberra, complimenting us backhandedly on the fact that it is there and then proceeds blithely to waive the State borders; they do not exist any more. He wants us to take over the situation. That is impossible. 
But what is possible is that the Federal Government could, and I believe should, investigate the. context of this possibility, to lay down guidelines which may be followed. It is not within its constitutional province to do this decentralisation but the Commonwealth should set the pattern and that is what I think the Opposition should be asking for. It should not seek to proliferate Canberra as such but see whether we can find certain guidelines in a certain context and find out a lot of things which have not been found out but which should be found out about what is more practicable, and what is more economic. It is by no means known that it is more economic to duplicate urban areas somewhere else than it is merely to expand the ones that we have at present. They are the things that we need to know. But the question of constitutionality is indeed important. 
Let us turn to the 3 substantive propositions and the various aspects of decentralisation. I leave aside again the question that regional areas do not exist because regions are particular types of areas and I would think that before the Opposition puts forward a matter of public importance such as this its members might do a little basic reading on regionalism and those sorts of things. Basically we have this proposition: Move the people out of the cities, slow down their growth and create alternative areas of development. That is an attractive proposition. It may even be a realistic one. But just look at some of the problems which State governments and others may face in this direction. Firstly, we have difficulties on wage differentials. The Opposition never talks about this one. A recent American commentator - I think I have made this point before - drew attention to the fact that decentralisation of the kind the Opposition is envisaging happened in the United States on one of several bases but particularly on the basis that the wage levels paid in the south east, say in Louisiana, are about 70 per cent of those paid in New York or New Jersey or somewhere like that. 
The situation is that honourable members opposite are so well organised on the other side of this House and around the country that they do not have that sort of wage differential in Australia. So one of the greatest persuasive factors to drag people out of the cities, that decentralising firms can pay lower wages somewhere else, is in fact not very easy to carry out on that basis in this country. We have of course the obvious question of transport costs and we have the psychological factors, which came out of the New South Wales decentralisation survey, operating against decentralisation. I think that these things can probably be put down by proper Government action but basically by the State governments. However I would like to see the Federal Government take an overall view of this subject. 
Development areas historically around the world have largely been depressed areas, areas of pools of unemployment. We do not basically have those in this country despite what may be thought for the moment. Areas such as those in the north east and north west of Britain, Western Ireland and so on have been historically long standing, decade by decade, depressed areas. Under this Government we have not developed such areas. We do happen to have had a concentration of people in a few cities and this seems to worry honourable members opposite terribly. It is worth looking at but not for the reasons which they suggest. This Government, 1 believe-- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The Minister for Education and Science will be aware of pressures to increase educational expenditure, as from advocates of the Nationwide Survey of Educational Needs. Since the latest opportunity for that increase has been provided by the disbursement of funds at the February Premiers Conference, is he in a position to indicate what benefits have accrued to education? 
This debate concerns the States Grants (Independent Schools) Bill 1972 and the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill 1972. Let me remind those honourable members who do not recall the position when this debate was adjourned on Tuesday night that the purpose of these cognate Bills is to validate the approximately $30m granted to State and independent schools which was announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  before the Christmas recess. In the case of the state schools these are capital grants and in the case of the independent schools they are per capita payments for improving their financial situation. One might claim in this some small kudos for the Government Members Education and Science Committee - to mention the backbenchers for once - which made a special plea that these grants be made so that the situation of both the state and independent schools might be improved. 
Lest we forget what was said in the course of the debate the other night as to what this is all about, let me remind honourable members of the situation. The States' expenditure on education has increased from about $430m in 1962-63 to about $ 1,284m in 197 J -72, an increase of almost 200 per cent. At the same time, Commonwealth expenditure has increased from about $59m to $357m or $358m, an increase of some 500 per cent. That should set the scene for the sorts of things that the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  and the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  were talking about the other night in suggesting that the Government was not quite aware of the needs of education and in trying to suggest further that it was responsible for certain divisive elements on the educational scene. I will say a little more on that anon. 
If we take the matter that I have just mentioned a wee bit further we find a situation in which at the Premiers Conference in February this year about $30m was provided and disbursed amongst the States. As was pointed out by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  only yesterday, in answer to a question from me, in some cases the moneys have been distributed quite significantly towards the cost of education. For instance, in New South Wales $2ra of $10m or so has already been earmarked for education. In Victoria $2im of a little over $8m has gone in the same direction. In my State of Tasmania some $830,000 out of the $2.23m granted al the Premiers Conference, or 37 per cent, which is a slightly higher figure than that previously calculated in this debate, has gone in the direction of education. I think we should bear those things in mind when we are discussing the details of what has already been raised by honourable members opposite. 
I should reiterate the point made yesterday by the Minister in his answer to the question. He said that it is notable that in South Australia, which has long been held up in the House as a fine example a very small quantity of the money distributed at the Premiers Conference has been allocated for education. (Quorum formed). In the case of Western Australia the sum total at the moment is nil. That makes for us, at the present time at least, a very nice distinction between the Australian Labor Party governments and the Liberal Party governments in the various States in the amount of those moneys which they are distributing to education. 
In the course of this debate an amendment was moved by the honourable member for Fremantle to the effect that, while not disagreeing with the second reading of this Bill, the Opposition is of the opinion that there should be established an Australian Schools Commission for the specific purpose of examining and determining the needs of students in government and non-government primary, secondary and technical schools and recommending grants that the Commonwealth should make to the States. The consequence of that amendment is that the Opposition is in the position of not merely wishing to see this money disbursed to the States for both types of schools but wishing also to change the pitch to the extent that it wants another sort of body - other than the Federal and State educational systems - to distribute these funds. Why does the Opposition want this to happen? On the face of it it seems to be a reasonable proposition. We have institutions or bodies which may be said to be parallel - notably the Australian Universities Commission. The point has been made by the Minister and others that this is not exactly a good parallel because there we are dealing with a handful or a couple of handfuls of autonomous universities whereas in the case of an Australian schools commission we would have to look after the needs of something like 10,000 schools, and therefore the bureaucracy problems and the problems of dealing with such a large number of not exactly autonomous institutions would be very much greater than those of the AUC. 
One might ask the further question: What is the cause for moving from governments of one sort or another as the distributional agencies and the decision making agencies as far as the field of education is concerned? After all, they are elected to take responsible decisions about various things, and not the least of those is education. I think we have to look a little further than that, while hesitating a little about the possibilities of an Australian schools commission, to know just what in fact we are trying to achieve and why an Australian schools commission is wanted. It has been suggested that the South Australian situation is an extremely good one in that it recognises a needs basis for the distribution of funds. In fact for a model this would seem to have something less than perfection because in South Australia the schools are categorised into 4 categories which receive grants from $10 to $24 per pupil depending on designation. This is suggested to mean that we have a better situation there than we have anywhere else. I can quote some very reputable authorities to suggest that that is so. In particular the Leader of the Opposition on 1st August 1971 said: 
There has lately been some criticism of the needs' concept of the A.L.P's educational policy of Commonwealth assistance for schools. 
He went on to say: 
South Australia has provided on the state level a model of how the 'needs' policy could work on the federal level. In March this year a committee reported to the Minister for Education on the distribution of $250,000 in additional aid for primary schools. 
He was so enamoured of the proposition in South Australia that on 23rd February this year he said in a personal explanation:   . . that in South Australia the needier schools get more per pupil from the State Government than any school gets per pupil from any other State government. 
If we look at the situation under the needs categorisation in South Australia we find that the biggest per capita grant received by an independent primary school is $34 a year in South Australia; the New South Wales State Government provides per capita grants to independent primary schools of $50 a year; Victoria provides $40; Queensland $45; Western Australia $30; and Tasmania $24. At least 3 States provide bigger per capita grants to independent primary schools than the maximum grant available in South Australia under the much praised needs system, in the words of the Leader of the Opposition. I think we need to think twice about that particular proposition. 
The Australian Labor Party's views on an Australian schools commission have, up to this point of what I have had to say, appeared to be more or less one, but that is not the case because 3 views have been expressed on this matter. The Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Murphy,  on 1st December last year in a debate on the States Grants (Secondary Schools Libraries) Bill said: 
That policy- 
The policy of the Labor Party -  sets out thai there should be an Australian schools commission to examine the needs of students in Government and non-government schools . . . 
The key phrase in what he had to say after those words is: 'That means government schools first'. This was such a telling phrase that it has already been taken up by the Minister for Education and Science but 1 make no apology for underlining it again. lt has of course very considerable potential for what it is the Labor Party intends to do if it ever gets a chance to do it. That is the first of the voices in chronological order in regard to Labor's view on an Australian schools commission. On the next day, 2nd December, in a personal explanation, which is more or less the usual thing, the Leader of the Opposition said: 
The Minister purported to give the interpretation that the schools commission, which the Labor Party has undertaken to establish, would give assistance to government schools before it gave any to non-government schools. It is plain from the reading of the document that the form of assistance will be on the basis of the investigations made by this expert body and reported to the Parliament and to the public, lt may be that there are some nongovernment schools which fall further short of acceptable standards and have larger class sizes than government schools - 
It is quite clear from what he had to say there that he refuted what his counterpart in the Senate said about an Australian schools commission. A week later on 9th December, the last day that the House sat last year, we find the honourable member tor Fremantle, the Opposition's spokesman on education matters, saying this: 
However, I want to say something about this system of making per capita grants to private schools. Surely it is not beyond the wit of man to devise in each Slate a Catholic education authority and an education authority for the. other independent schools, to make a grant to them which may be calculated on a per capita basis. . . . 
In other words the honourable member is proposing that there be at least 2 schools commissions in each State, that is to say, a dozen or so around the country. In fact that might be the better way of doing it. But the point I am making here is that that is the third view of what an Australian schools commission might do or what form it might take, as expressed by leading members of the Opposition in the space of  8  days. If we think of that we might think a little further and wonder just what it is the Opposition intends to do on the educational front, if, as I said earlier, it ever gets the chance to do anything. One suspects, though one cannot prove, that the sum result of these divisive propositions, if one can sum divisive propositions, is that the ALP has very little intention of making any grants to independent schools except the very lowest down the line in terms of their financial capacity and their ability. Clearly if one were able to operate a system thoroughly on a needs basis one would manage to phase out a great deal of the self-help independent schools, possibly to the advantage of some of the less welloff State schools but certainly not to the advantage of those independent schools. Then ultimately of course if the independent schools passed over were to throw themselves onto the public purse or had to fold otherwise they would come back in an indirect sense to a situation whereby nobody was really being helped. 
What we are really talking about is the whole question of State aid although many more tilings than that are implicit in these grants to government schools and nongovernment schools. But Opposition speakers so far have focused their attention on asserting that the Government is providing a divisive element in education despite the fact that all parties represented in this Parliament have very much taken on board the proposition that State aid - that is to say aid to independent schools - is a proper proposition and is to be carried out indefinitely in the Australian educational scene. What we have in this matter of State aid is really quite simple. There are all sorts of things being said about it but I do not intend to explore the philosophy of this matter at great length. We have touched on it at other times. 
Let us put it at its simplest and if you like its least philosophical. It means this: The subsidy to independent schools is the cheapest way of educating the pupils who attend them. The diversion of funds which organisations like the Council for the Defence of Government Schools require from those schools for whatever reasons, and the reasons vary, would eliminate private investment in education through the ultimate closure of those schools and thereby increase the tax burden on those who, according to the anti-aid protagonists, can least afford to have such an increase in the tax burden. To me that is a simple statement of the proposition that is in the minds of at least some members of the Opposition. Tt seems to me that aid to independent schools is something which has to be supported for philosophic or practical reasons, or both, and that if we deny that proposition, as some honourable members opposite are attempting to do, then we will find ourselves on very difficult financial grounds educationally, if nothing else. 
I might take this matter a little further because if one. examines the dissent and division in the ALP in its education policy one might ask where do they stand on one particular matter? We have only recently had handed down a report by the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts. The report relates to the Commonwealth's role in teacher education. At the back of that fairly voluminous report from the Committee under the capable chairmanship of  Senator Davidson  there is a dissenting report from 2 Labor senators,  Senator James  McClelland and  Senator Milliner.  Amongst what they had to say in the several pages of dissent is this: 
No persuasive reasons were advanced to the Committee as to why the maintenance of the Catholic school system should demand separate training of its teachers. The provision of continuing religions indoctrination which is undoubtedly prized by Catholics and which is their main justification for the perpetuation of their separate school system, is  a  matter to be entrusted to their own religious orders, and should not, in fact, probably cannot under the Constitution, be a matter with which the Commonwealth Government can concern itself. 
They went on to say at the conclusion of their dissenting report: 
The rationale  of  'State Aid' to Catholic schools is that they are  a  traditional part of our total educational system  to  which parents who wish their children to obtain  a  distinctively Catholic education are entitled  to  send them, that their continued existence relieves the burden of government schools, and that such aid does not amount to subsidising a religion  but to  furthering the educational aspects  of  schools where religion is also incidentally inculcated. 
The final paragraph reads: 
The plea to extend 'State Aid' to Catholic teacher training institutions goes beyond this justification. The Commonwealth is asked, not merely to help  to  promote the quality and quantity of teachers available to Catholic and nonCatholic schools alike. This in itself is a large order. But it is also asked to provide funds for the specifically Catholic training of teachers. This is unjustifiable, and probably unconstitutional as well. 
That is where the ALP appears to stand in relation to the training of Catholic teachers. Some people might care to bear that in mind when we again try to assess what the ALP is trying to do in the educational field. 
May I finally make a reference to the speeches that were made the other night by the honourable members for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley) and Bendigo (Mr Kennedy).  In this particular sense they said, I have no doubt with the best will in the world, a number of things which bear upon and which illustrate what I think we can best call in the parlance of the day the environmental hang-up of the ALP. By that I mean this: They were talking at length - in particular the honourable member for Bendigo - about the divisive impetus this Government is introducing to education. They were talking greatly about reducing inequalities. The sort of inequalities they wanted to reduce and which I am sure every member of this House would want to reduce were substantially those which were environmentally based and which were in fact matters which they wanted to overcome by a needs proposition in its general sense. 
They wanted to take away, whether in terms of scholarships, per capita grants or what have you, from those who had intellectual capacity and some means and give to those who had whatever intellectual capacity and no means. That is in some senses persuasive if one thumps the question of inequalities and equalities of opportunities, but it is not as persuasive as it should be, because if anybody should stand for anything in this country it is that ability should count. Whether we underpin it or do not underpin it by financial aid it is, I believe, an insidious proposition that we should give to need rather than to ability. 
So this almost dislike of intelligence, this undue wish to pay one way or another through Government funds for people who have not quite as much as somebody else to get through is attractive if they are deprived and if they are able. But it is not made clear at almost any point of time by honourable members opposite whether the people they wish to subsidise are able. In fact one gets the impression - unfortunately we have lost the sense of what they were saying the other night - that the ALP would legislate if it could for everybody to run at the same pace. That to me is not a part of the human race and however much we try to help people who are deserving cases - 1 underline that; I am all for it - we cannot subscribe to the proposition that ability takes second place to need. We can attempt to remove deprivation. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of government education services has established serious deficiencies in education, the most important areas being a severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation, and, as a result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently required to save the government school system. 
That while the needs of the government schools are being neglected, large amounts of public money are being given, in various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to make emergency Federal finance available to the States for State school education, and divert the large sums of public money being spent on private schools, to the government school system for which the government is specifically responsible. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Is the Minister aware that Rheem Australia Pty Ltd is negotiating to buy cold rolled steel sheet from Japanese producers following the rise in the price of Broken Hill Pty Co. steel? Does he know that Rheem is 50 per cent owned by BHP? Does he not find a certain irony, not to say a lack of steely resolve, in this situation? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pay. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of government education services has established serious deficiencies in education, the most important areas being a severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation, and, as  a  result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently required to save the government school system. 
That while the needs of the government schools are being neglected, large amounts of public money are being given, in various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to make emergency Federal finance available to the States for State school education, and divert the large sums of public money being spent on private schools, to the government school system for which the government is specifically responsible. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the community of the University of Tasmania respectfully sheweth: 
That the increase in tertiary education fees for 1972 will cause increased hardship for a significant proportion of tertiary students. 
That tertiary fees and concomitant living costs are a formidable barrier preventing significant numbers of students entering tertiary education who nevertheless have the ability to do so. 
That the increase in tertiary fees for 1972 is immoral, in that Universities and Colleges of Advanced Education are being further restricted to that minimal section of the Australian population who can afford to send their sons and daughters on to higher education. 
That all education should be free including tertiary education. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate action to introduce in order of priority 
Universal commonwealth scholarships 
Commonwealth scholarships on the basis of need rather than academic ability 
Abolition of tertiary fees. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Speaking after a modest meal I find it hard to generate the degree of heat emitted by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  when he was speaking on this subject of the Commonwealth Teaching Service prior to the suspension of the sitting, I presume on an empty stomach. That may not be the only explanation for his acerbity in this particular matter because I detect from what he had to say a somewhat excessive inclination to believe the worst of this Bill, of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and of those who advised him, although, of course, they were not mentoned in the process. It may well be true that we have here an example of over centralisation, of authoritarianism, of lack of community representation, a downgrading of professional qualifications and various other matters of a lesser order. I find it hard to believe that any or all of those things will come about although I think I should concede, on the evidence of the Bill, that some of those things might be possible. But the success of any system such as this obviously depends on the goodwill of the operators. This is something that I think I have said before in this House. If one is prepared to believe that the operators do not have good intent and are setting up a particular function merely to browbeat the people who operate within it, of course all sorts of fears will come to the surface and one will hardly believe that any good will come of it. I think I can understand that particular point of view, whether it emanates from the honourable member for Fremantle with his usual balanced view of things or from any other honourable member opposite. After being in Opposition for a considerable time honourable members opposite no doubt are prepared to think that the worst will always come from those on this side of the House. However I do not believe the view is justified in this particular case. 
Let us examine what sort of things worry the honourable member for Fremantle, and presumably some of his colleagues who will follow, judging by the preliminary interruptions or interjectionsof the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds).  The honourable member for Fremantle thinks that this proposed Commonwealth teaching service is something - some of those whom he quotes do likewise - which will not be integrating the teachers with the service they wish to perform or will be employed to perform. He thinks that there will be far too much authority concentrated in the hands of a commissioner and perhaps in the hands of the Minister. For this reason and others be moves, on behalf of his Party, 5 amendments which are of a fairly considerable order in the total view of the matter. I do not propose to repeat them seriatim at this moment. Let us consider what might have been said if, in fact, the provisions laid down were not the case. It might well have been that this service was made a direct arm of the Commonwealth Department of Education and Science. One could imagine the order of criticism that would have come forward. The Minister, in a fairly lengthy second reading speech - 7 pages of Hansard - outlined in some detail what is intended in this important legislation. It has been suggested that various things are to be done. The main function of this service is - I quote the Minister: 
In summary, the Commonwealth Teaching Service is intended to include eventually all teachers employed in Commonwealth-operated schools in mainland Australia. The Bill is framed in such a way that the Commonwealth Teaching Service may include also teachers in other schools where, for one reason or another,- this is appropriate. Thus the Bill  win  make it possible for a number of the highly qualified and experienced Australian teachers in Papua New Guinea to join the Commonwealth Teaching Service. 
This kind of informative detail continued for upwards of 6 pages of Hansard. That seems to me to be an entirely proper intention and what we are arguing about is the way in which it might be carried out. First and foremost should we have a commission rather than a commissioner in this particular field of operation? The criticisms of the honourable member for Fremantle seemed to hinge fairly substantially, as I recall them, on the fact that we will have an excessive centralisation of power in the hands of one man or woman who, in fact, will operate this system. There is an assumption that we are envisaging an education system and that there are very considerable things of an educative kind which are contemplated. That is not true. We are talking about a teaching service and, for good reasons or bad - the inclination on this side of the House is to think them good - the proposition is that the teachers who will make the system function are, in fact, the only people involved in this particular legislation. It is not legislation for the operation of a whole series of schools; it is designed for flexibility whereby a particular group of teachers will be able to operate in one or more service depending on certain qualifications and certain matters laid down for their direction. This would appear to be an entirely proper concept. If somebody cares to disagree and say it should be integrated with some department, although it has not been taken as far as that, they are welcome to do so, but prima facie I do not think one can suggest that there is anything wrong with the proposition that we should have a kind of autonomous teaching service which can operate in due course in the Australian Capital Territory, the Northern Territory and even in Papua New Guinea. 
As we know, again as the Minister has pointed out, the reason for this proposal coming to pass is that South Australia, which has responsibility for the teachers of the Northern Territory, is withdrawing from that system. New South Wales would like to do likewise in respect of the Australian Capital Territory. They have hitherto been reimbursed by the Commonwealth for their functions on behalf of the Commonwealth. Within a few years or so we expect teachers in all the Commonwealth Territories to be operating under the aegis of this Service. Does this mean that there is excessive administrative centralisation - that this autonomous or fairly substantially autonomous body has unto itself too many functions, too much disciplinary authority and other powers which are feared? 
One thing that the honourable member for Fremantle did not mention was the size of the Service. He seems to imply - I may do him an injustice - that we are talking about something that for the moment is a direct parallel with the State education systems. It may approximate a parallel with the size of the Tasmanian system but beyond that I do not think we. can go because currently - I think my figures are right - we are dealing with about 1,200 teachers in the Australian Capital Territory and 600 in the Northern Territory. In due course they will grow in number as the populations increase but we are talking about something of the order of 2,000 or fewer people. We. are not talking about the 30,000 or more teachers in the New South Wales system. I think it is entirely proper, at this jump off point, to have a situation where not everything is spelt out and where there are some possibilities of flexibility in development. The inimitable Professor Sawer in making one of his almost weekly comments on matters of current interest had a number of things to say, some of which were more or less critical and some of which bordered on the complimentary. On 8th March appeared an article of his in the 'Canberra Times' in which he said: 
The Minister has my sympathy. It is inconceivable that he could today put  up  a proposal which would satisfy all interests. 
He should, however, treat this one as an experiment, to be re-considered when the Territories acquire their separate school authorities. 
I do not know of anything which suggests that the door is closed to future consideration of the changing needs of any of the Territories and it seems to me that while it may be good and proper for the honourable member for Fremantle or others to have hesitations, hiatuses, reservations and worries about what might happen in some future year, the plain fact of the matter is that we are setting up a basic authority to deal with a very small service and one which doubtless can grow and the legislation for which will enable it to do so. So I do not really see that these fears hitherto mentioned are justified. 
I deal now with some of the other matters raised by the honourable member for Fremantle. He is the only one who has preceded me in this debate and I must focus on what he had to say. He has moved a S-part amendment and he makes the point that no teacher is represented on the commission. Of course, that would be so if there were only a commissioner and not a commission. Perhaps it is not totally convincing but the argument is that in current circumstances and in view of the nature of the job to be done the commissioner will with a small staff be responsible for the whole operation; that it is a small system and it is not appropriate at this stage at least to have a representative commission, in other words, to overload the apple cart and to have a heavy administrative structure to administer something which at the moment is specifically a teaching service operating for a relatively small number of teachers. That seems to me to be fair argument and, if we care not to accept that argument, we come back to the question of whether or not goodwill is assumed to be existing. Obviously, being on this side of the House I choose to believe that this service rs being set up as a constructive operation and that goodwill will be apparent until otherwise is seen to be the case. So there we are so far as representation is concerned. 
There is a problem in the sort of people who are said to be somewhat dissident towards the centralisation of authority, if that is what it is, and the focus of authority in a very few hands. It should be mentioned that the Australian Capital Territory Secondary Teachers Association late in February this year when commenting on the proposed provisions said, .that the Commonwealth Teaching Service 'will have an outward appearance of being a reasonably autonomous statutory body but will in fact be too much under the authority of the Minister'. That is the Association's point of view. It happens to be a part of the New South Wales Teachers Federation and when giving evidence before the Rydge Committee which was considering a- short time ago a possible education commission in New South Wales, the Federation said: 
The restoration to democratic parliamentary control through a responsible Minister of many matters now only decided by reference to the (Public Service) Board, will be among the important results of setting up the proposed education commission. 
So on the one hand the whole body is saying in a particular situation that this is a fairly democratic sort of operation. A little later in relation to a very slightly different but still similar proposed commission in another place a portion of that body, the Australian Capital Territory Secondary Teachers Association, begs leave to differ with itself, as it were, and says it has considerable reservations about getting too much autonomy or authority in or near the hands of the Minister. There is a certain inconsistency there and in that sense its view does not impress me. 
The honourable member for Fremantle made, among other points, the point that there had been an unenthusiastic reception by various groups of an educational kind of the proposed legislation. In terms of the comments of Professor Sawer which I have already quoted, that is to be expected. One who comes from anywhere in Australia other than the Australian Capital Territory comes to expect that those representatives of bodies in the Australian Capital Territory are unlikely to be happy with almost anything unless it is gold plated. I may do them an injustice in certain respects but I would be extraordinarily surprised if they were to accept any new proposal as being good enough for the Australian Capital Territory. So far as I can see from a close reading of umpteen pages of this Bill the provisions here are better than those under which the teachers in any State operate. I may be wrong in that and it may not be a good enough yardstick anyway. But I believe they are about to get a fairly good deal and once again that will depend on how well it is dealt. However, I see no reason to believe that the dealing of this legislation will be less than reasonable. 
There are other propositions put forward in the amendments which the Opposition has moved. The second is: for the heightening of professional standards of teachers in the Commonwealth Teaching Service by empowering the Commission to negotiate for the establishment of faculties of education in universities where necessary, including the Australian National University. 
I suppose in one way that is an unexceptionable proposition but I cannot see why it is necessary. As I said earlier, we have a proposal for a Commonwealth teaching service - not a Commonwealth education service nor at this stage a Commonwealth teacher training service - for the administration, enlistment, provision of qualifications, salaries and other such matters in relation to the people who are to teach. I am not quite sure why the service should have the power to negotiate for establishing faculties of education anywhere at this stage. It does not seem to me to be appropriate to its function. Having had something to do with faculties of education in a reasonably direct way and certainly in a constant indirect way in universities, I think that those institutions or their equivalent will be able to cater for that proposition as well as anybody and better than most. I do not see it as the function of the Commonwealth teaching service to push for educational faculties here, there or anywhere else. 
In relation to the amendment concerning the opening up of the service to take care of Pacific island candidates or employees, again that is quite unexceptionable and it is covered under clause 16 (3.) (b) of the Bill which leaves a wide provision for future operation in this respect. The honourable member for Fremantle took a fairly strong point in part (d) of the amendment. He mentioned in quite strong terms that representation of the public on this teaching service operation would be highly desirable. I suppose one can argue that the public in some form or other - the community - should be represented on almost anything one cares to think of, but I tend on occasions to be specialist conservative enough to think that there are some people who have learned about particular fields of interest who may be able to run their own show. I am not yet persuaded that members of the public would greatly enhance the professional operation of a teaching service, whoever they might be. It seems to me that those properly qualified in that field to administer the service, having come through the ranks in particular, should be able to handle it successfully. I say so as a trained teacher who for a short period of time operated under the limitations and restrictions of the New South Wales Department of Education, such as it was then, a department which was probably excessively bureaucratic, although understandably bureaucratic up to a point, given its size. So I do not think community representation would ensure very much. It may be a useful provision which the Minister of the day may see fit to incorporate under clause S3 which caters for all such operations. He could do that at a future stage. 
The final part of the amendment concerns the pregnancy of female teachers and the fact that general Commonwealth Public Service provisions which are laid down for them are inadequate. I am unlikely to be in the situation of having to make a personal judgment on this and I do not know what Women's Lib would say if it were interested in pregnant women teachers. But the plain fact is that clause 33 allows pregnant female teachers to take off a period of duty not exceeding 26 weeks of which something like 20 weeks can be before confinement. I am not an expert in these matters but that seems to me to be a pretty long period of time and probably adequate to cater for almost any contingency in this particular detailed matter of teaching efficiency and humanitarian operation. Again I do not really see at this point that there is a great bone of contention there but it may be that the honourable member for Fremantle is right in wanting a greater latitude and flexibility of operation in that circumstance with regard to female members of the fraternity. 
Finally, because my time is running out, I say that we have here a constructive provision. It may be that advice has come from heavily authoritarian members of the Department of Education and Science and from a heavily authoritarian Minister who are hell bent upon setting up a structure which will absolutely incarcerate those people who come into the service. I do not see it that way at this point of time and I hope the future will not prove me to have been wrong. I think there is enough flexibility in clauses such as 53 and 16 (3.) (b) to allow for future adaptation to make this perhaps the best teaching service in the Commonwealth. I am sure that that is the intention of those people who currently are proposing it. 
Much of what the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  has said is true in the worst practico examples of directing people within a teaching service and theoretically what is proposed in the amendment is obviously highly desirable, namely, that people should be able to go precisely where they want to go and when they want without recourse to the position of other people, while integrating into a total system. But, in practice, despite the desirability of this sort of thing, we might find some considerable problems. Honourable members opposite, in a number of points that they have made, seem to ignore the fact that this must be a system. Earlier in the debate they referred to the generality whereby medicos are not pushed around anywhere - they can go where they will, they are free agents, they are self employed and they either make money in a place or they do not. People employed by an authority, whether it is authoritarian or non-authoritarian, do not have the same advantage. I am fully aware of what the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  said about the New South Wales teaching service. Some of the worst bureaucratic operations of the past have resulted in A being sent to approximately the home location of B and B being sent to approximately the home location of A and no-one bothering to find out whether it would be possible for them both to teach in their home locations and so avoid the necessity to travel back and forth. In this Bill we are concerned with areas further distant, of course. However this sort of thing does happen although it should not happen if there are competent operators. Of course, the bigger the system the harder it is to organise. It is difficult, with the best will in the world, to see in practice how there could be a situation under which people could not be directed at all to go somewhere if necessary. 
We well know that in every State there is a considerable propensity among teachers to want to undertake part-time university courses. This is highly commendable, but in so doing they want to be in the capital cities or at least next door to the universities, which at present is much the same thing. So there is a general dearth of people who want to be sent to anything like a rural area. Without some sort of control we would end up with practically no teachers in the country and all teachers in the cities. I do not know how this situation could be met in view of the Opposition's subtle distinction between 'place' and authority'. Basically the Opposition's amendment concerns a distinction between sending a teacher to a place and sending a teacher to work under an authority. Frankly, in practice, unless I have missed the point, I think we would end up with a situation that any other system finds. I should like to think otherwise but I cannot see how that could be. Someone has to lay down some sort of authority and we only hope it will operate in as enlightened a fashion as is possible. 
Perhaps I should remind the House that the purpose of the Bill is to make provision - I quote from the second reading speech of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  - 'In a similar manner to the provision of section 28 of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act for the Public Service arbitration tribunal to deal with what are termed industrial situations'. I remind the House of that because most of what was said by the preceding  speaker,  the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster),  would not have left anybody listening in other than doubt as to what the Bill was about. I think that I should amplify that statement to an exent. The Minister continued: 
The processes of the Act have remained virtually unchanged since the first Public Service Arbitration Act was enacted in 1920. They do not empower the tribunal to deal with situations of industrial action. This form of jurisdiction by the Public Service Arbitrator was simply not required when the legislation was first enacted. The system created in 1920 was designed for a far different set of circumstances from those now existing. 
That is the basic reason for the introduction of the provisions in the Bill. Having regard to what has been said previously  in  the debate, the provisions are entirely deserved. The distinct lack of substance which has emanated from the Opposition this evening amply substantiates the suggestion made by the honourable member for Sturt that the Opposition should have made one speech and then sat down as a matter of protest. That was his idea. There was no substance in the 4 speeches that honourable members opposite made, so they could well have made one speech only. 
Perhaps statements of this kind do not help us very much with the Bill, but it is significant that when the debate commenced prior to the suspension of the si ting the other side of the House was practically empty. The able members of one kind or another of the Postal Workers Union who had come to see us, and persuasively so, in the last day or two, no longer thought it necessary to s'ay.  Mr Hawke,  who was here this morning, was no longer here. (Quorum formed). The Opposition is so convinced of the dire nature of the Bill that it has found it very hard :o produce any substance or any support in the wings. I was referring particularly to the fact that no doubt  Mr Hawke  has found another television engagement to keep him away from she House this evening. That may be entirely proper, but the plain fact is that there is no substance and very little support for the contention which has been made on several occasions that the Bill is all kinds of things. For example, the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  sees it as having a sinister purpose. The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  in making a point very validly drew an analogy that people cannot be allowed to pick and choose which jobs or which parts of jobs they will do if they have any sense of responsibility to their employers and to the public. On that point he was taken up by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  who regarded that statement as a 19th century attitude. He asserted that an employee should not have to do what he is employed to do or what he is instructed to do but he should do what suits him best. That would be a very nice situation if one could get it. I cannot think of anything which would lead more readily to industrial and economic anarchy. 
It is not good enough for honourable members opposite to depend, as they have almost entirely on the repeated assertion that each member on the Government side fails to understand industrial relations. I have not found that lack of understanding holding back honourable members opposite. For example, I recall that last night the honourable member for Sturt, in his usual loquacious manner, spoke from a basis of utter ignorance when he spoke on the Commonwealth Teaching Service Bill.  His  lack of knowledge did not hold him up for one moment. I do not see why it should hold up members on this side. I do not agree that we do not know anything about industrial relations. Perhaps this is an appropriate time, although I have not spent a lot of time on the factory floor, to mention to the honourable member for Sturt, among others, that I am a life member of my former union. The honorary life membership was conferred on me on the motion of 2 members of the Party to which the honourable member for Sturt belongs. I hope I do not do them a political injustice by mentioning that. When the honourable member can come up with an equal situation as a result of his industrial actions he may be prepared to inform me and the House. 
The Bill is .intended to improve the general atmosphere and in particular the functioning of industrial relations in an important area of employment in this country. It does not exclude strikes, but it is concerned particularly with those 'industrial situations' - in inverted commas - which are short of strikes and which up until this point of time have been rather difficult to identify particularly in terms of industrial redress. This is so, perhaps unfortunately but particularly, in the PostmasterGeneral's Department. The large number of employees in the Department and the complexities of a bureaucracy - which, up to a point, it must be - are such that we acknowledge that there are certain things inherent in such a situation which may make life difficult in the industrial sense. Nevertheless that does not remove the individual and group responsibility of all those from the managerial element down to the factory floor, if it is the factory floor, to the. office desk, to the mail sorting bench or what have you, to work a system as best as they are able. It ill becomes honourable members opposite to speak about a complete lack of understanding and a suggested complete lack of any responsibility to the general employee, when their statements are taken in the context of their tremendous readiness to complain about any company profit - in particular the profit of larger companies - which is announced and which is brought before the. House. It does not matter - nor do they bother to go into this - how many shareholders are involved in the profits and how small or how large the shareholdings might be. 
Honourable members opposite complain readily ; I do not argue the rights or wrongs ; about an increase in the price of steel or any other commodity, but we do not hear any suggestion that productivity is a matter of grave and considerable responsibility for the individual. It is not true that this Party, this Government or its members are disinterested in the working man. There is a great deal of social legislation and social welfare legislation in the broader sense, among other things, which is enacted almost daily in this place for the benefit of the working man. Lest we think that we are talking only about the so-called working man in this context, let us remember that it is a Public Service Arbitration Bill and that we are not by any means talking about blue collar workers alone. We are talking about a considerable body of white collar workers who in days not very far distant were seen to have the same responsibility of a professional kind as people in this place would like to think they have and that people in many other places, including the oft-quoted professions such as the legal, medical and other professions, are thought to have. 
To me it has always been a matter of considerable grievance that people who are white collar workers or professional workers, in any broad area that that connotes, should find it necessary to strike, or to take part in other subterfuges which are something less obvious than strikes, to achieve industrial ends when they have the intelligence, the organisation, the training and whatever else is needed to conduct their operations in a proper homo sapiens verbal sense. It should be only to those people who are unable to put their aspirations, hopes and demands into words and to argue things sensibly across a table that the necessity occurs for things such as strikes. If we want to separate ourselves from the animals, a very good way to do so is to be able to talk about things and to be able to achieve our objects by discussion. 
We do not want to leave this matter too much up in the air. I would like to give a couple of examples of the sort of thing about which we are talking, in order to give a little point to what it is all about. Let us take one instance of the kind of thing which this Bill is designed to obviate, or what it is trying to do by better, more efficient and, we would hope, at least fair means. Let me instance the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union bans imposed in November 1971. I have a very substantial chronology of activity which I do not have time to delve into. It might prove to be tedious if I did that. Let me just summarise what that action meant. Undoubtedly this dispute, which extended over some  2i  months caused considerable inconvenience not only to the Postmaster-General's Department from which it emanated but also to members of the public and to the men in the Postmaster-General's Department themselves. Almost certainly the imposition of those bans resulted in substantial delays in the settlement of the union claims. In fact, the comments of the Public Service Arbitrator when he got into the act and made a decision on the industry allowance application, which was at the foot of the matter, would seem to bear out my contention. In part the Arbitrator said:   it was unfortunate that members of the union should mistakenly have thought it desirable or necessary, to engage in industrial action in an attempt to force compliance with their wishes. Be that as it may, it is not unimportant that the union's  applicaion  was not lodged here until after 15th February 1972 and it could have been soon after it became clear that negotiations had broken down. 
Doubtless, if people were to read the rest of the substance of this decision they would not find that the matter is any different. It is clear from what has happened that it is necessary to introduce measures to produce better, more efficient, more effective and less damaging results to the economy than are being achieved in present circumstances by an Act which essentially dates back some 50 years. 
To take just one other example of the sort of thing I am talking about, the Union of Postal Clerks and Telegraphists imposed bans in January 1972. After some lapse of time and following various actions a position was reached which I summarise as follows: Despite a quite intensive campaign of industrial action which extended over a period of more than one month and which certainly inconvenienced the Postal Department in its daily operations and certainly inconvenienced countless members of the public - 1 am sure that honourable members will be aware of that situation in detail - the union had achieved nothing in the way of salary increases. At the outset of the campaign the West Australian Branch rejected the federal executive's proposal on the grounds that an application for the increases had not been filed with the Arbitrator and it was too early for direct action. Nevertheless, the matter proceeded. Throughout the early stages of the campaign the New South Wales Branch exhibited an unwillingness to enforce a number of union's federal executive's proposals for action. The strike still went on; delays still occurred; and there was still inconvenience not only to the public but also to the members of the union themselves. So it is fairly simple, in that sense, to see that what is proposed here is an entirely constructive suggestion. Once again I disagree with the honourable member for Stirling and say that the Bill has not a sinister purpose. It is not a 19th century attitude. But the legislation shows, as I think the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  said quite fully, a degree of responsibility and interest in the economy which I think falls short of any obvious intent to depress or repress the so-called working man. 
There have been in recent times considerable increases in the number of industrial disputes coming before the Public Service Arbitrator's office. Without making a lengthy allusion to this, let me give honourable members a few figures. For example, in 1961, 78 applications for judgment were filed. In fact, in that year, given some carryover from the previous year by the failure to dispose of all applications filed, there were 62 applications disposed of. By 1965-4 years later - 309 applications were filed and a total of 296 were disposed of. By 1968 the figures had risen to 458 applications filed and 409 disposed of. By 1971 495 applications were filed and 544 were disposed of. That is a very considerable increase in the amount of activity going on in the Public Service Arbitrator's Office. It is perfectly clear that this signifies not just an increase in industrial employment in the areas affected by this Bill but also an increase in the militancy of industrial action and the number of actions coming before the Arbitrator, irrespective of population and other increases. 
One could make 2 or 3 other comments on those figures. For instance, the figures of the number of matters brought before the Public Service Arbitrator during the 10-year period which I covered show an increase in excess of 530 per cent. From about the mid-1960s, despite certain fluctuations, the number of applications rose very significantly. I know that the recency of the considerable development in industrial action in this country is a matter to which attention has been drawn in this House on other occasions. Other comments could be made in this regard, but they all bear in the same direction. The increase does not of itself indicate that the Bill is totally substantiated. But it does suggest that such is the degree of action taking place and resulting in applications for decision coming forward that it is at least time, probably past time, a step such as that proposed by the Government at this stage was taken. 
I should touch for a moment on the question of the deficiencies of the existing provisions of this Act. Industrial disputation which is manifested in various ways - by strikes, bans, go-slows and so on - occurs somewhat less frequently in this area of Commonwealth employment, in which we are interested now, than it does in industry, and that is understandable for the reasons which I suggested earlier. Once upon a time at least some of the people involved considered themselves to have professional responsibility, or at least some professional responsibility, and I do not think it is worthwhile to try to split straws about that. But at least they were in a situation in which they had trained personnel, the organisation and the capacity to argue their case. Within the areas of Commonwealth employment affected by this matter are the supply and naval establishments and the day labour groups in the Department of Works as well as various sections of the Public Service proper. This, of course, amounts to a very considerable total body of employees. As I have said, there has been an increasing inclination in recent years for unions which have members in Commonwealth employment to threaten or to engage in industrial action resulting in disruption to the status quo and to Commonwealth activities, and consequently, of course, to public services. Nonetheless, there are significant groups covering large numbers in this area who, I think it should be said, have never engaged in direct action or bans and who have used other devices - more legal processes or at least more parley processes - to achieve their ends in, roughly speaking, the postwar period. So this increase in industrial action in the blue collar to white collar area of Commonwealth employment in particular is of recent origin. The industrial actions which have come forward have occurred in a wide area of Commonwealth employment outside of the Public Service Act. 
We should take note that in the handling of these industrial situations in Commonwealth employment it is important that the relevant authorities have ready means of access to the Public Service Arbitrator or any other relevant arbitral authority. If that were not to be so, we would tend in the direction of industrial chaos. As I mentioned at the outset of my speech, or soon after, it is entirely important that this Bill should be seen to be achieving or attempting to achieve a situation of improved industrial conditions generally for the economic welfare of this country, which certainly can stand improvement in any direction in which we are able to effect it in a responsible way from this Parliament. I do not have time to dilate this matter any further. I think I have said substantially what I wanted to say about it. 
I disagree profoundly with those members of the Opposition who have imputed sinister motives or other things of that kind. Secrecy has also been mentioned in the course of this debate so far. I see no reason to believe that these things axe part and parcel of the intent of this Bill or, in fact, of its particular wording. I think it is entirely proper that we should be trying to make a situation of improvement whereby industrial relations covering this Commonwealth area of employment will be materially improved for the general welfare of the people of this country. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of government education services has established serious deficiencies in education, the most important areas being a severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation, and, as a result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently required to save the government school system. 
That while the needs of the government schools are being neglected, large amounts of public money is being given, in various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to make emergency Federal finance available to the States for State school education, and divert the large sums of public money being spent on private schools, to the government school system for which the government is truly responsible. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest.. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking andto what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
In this case the Opposition has argued successfully that promotion in the teaching service should be according to teaching criteria. I agree with that argument, as does the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The Opposition has argued that way, as against applying other criteria, notably administrative ones. I believe - even though no attention has been drawn to this matter which bears very much on the assertions made in respect of clause 25  -  that the dignity of members of the teaching profession might depend upon their representation on a teaching commission. I submit that this is a direct analogy with what is being accepted here now. The dignity of members of the teaching profession will depend upon their degree of qualification, the way in which they exercise that in the class room and the way in which ,hey exercise their professional responsibility. This situation obtains in relation to this clause. 
Amendment  (Mr Malcolm Frasers)  agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 29. (3.) Upon an appeal or appeals being made against a provisional promotion, a Promotions Appeal Board specified by the Commissioner shall make full enquiry into the claims of the appellant or appellants and the claims of the officer provisionally promoted and - (a) except where the next succeeding paragraph applies - determine the appeal or appeals; or 
where the vacant position is one in respect of which the rate of salary, or the maximum rate of salary, exceeds such rate as is prescribed for the purposes of this paragraph - make a report to the Commissioner on those claims. (4.) Upon receipt of a report in accordance with paragraph (b) of the last preceding subsection, the Commissioner shall determine the appeal or appeals. 
I have been looking for some argument in what has been said in the last couple of speeches across the floor as to why it was that the provision should be specially different here than in other areas of the Public Service. It may or may not be that the ordinary provisions of the Public Service in this respect are good enough. But, as far as I can hear, the only proposition which has come forward as persuasive argument in relation to special treatment is that there may be cause for embarrassment for the female pregnant teacher in front of a class. I find that argument very hard to accept in this day and age. 
Some people have just been looking at a television programme and talking about a school programme for 12-year-olds, male and female. We do not need to dilate in the course of the Committee stages of this Bill on une permissiveness in society and matters of that order. But I think that it is a little out of keeping with the general context of our social environment at the moment for it to be proposed that the average female teacher might suffer undue embarrassment in the early or middle stages of pregnancy by being in front of a class. I should have thought that that would be, at the least, instructive. 
This particular proposition is like a great number of other proposals from the other side of the floor, and some from this, in. that it is persuasive in its humanitarian context. In that sense I suppose one would agree with it. I go along with the argument of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  about the treatment of temporary employees, but the proposal in this amendment could be somewhat less inequitable in many circumstances than other situations that have been mentioned. I do not want to take that up unduly at this stage, but I do feel that one should think a little beyond what has already been said and consider the proposition as to who pays, and consider also that it might not be regarded as totally unfashionable that people should regulate their lives to some extent without somebody else having to pay. 
This attitude creeps progressively and consistently through our whole educational system, quite apart from our social priorities, in that students now consider it quite reasonable that they should marry at the ripe old age of 18 or 20 and that somebody else should provide them with scholarships and living allowances, and more allowances if they have children, and so on. That is great, but the fact is that somebody else who has not been able to do that or has not chosen to do that but has dedicated himself to a particular line of learning and has married later would have to pay. In that sense I think that the provisions of the Bill as they stand are not unreasonable. If in fact honourable members opposite want to make a total onslaught on the whole proposal of Public Service employment in this particular respect, perhaps that would be in order. But I am not persuaded at this stage that peculiar provisions are necessary in this particular field of employment in relation to leave for pregnant teachers. 
The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  and the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  have put too dark a complexion on this matter, particularly on the question of discipline and the mechanism for it The Commissioner has been variously described by honourable members on the other side, firstly, as being essentially potentially authoritarian and, secondly, as being a rubber stamp for the Public Service Board, and one is not quite sure just how powerful he might be. If it is accepted that the Commissioner is in a position to take a subjective view, as it has been called, of someone's suitability or unsuitability at a particular time, it can be accepted that at that time the man may be inept or unbalanced or something of that nature and I certainly would not gainsay that particular point. But surely the argument that has been put tends to obviate the provisions of clause 37 which provides for a disciplinary appeal board on which is represented officers of the Commonwealth Teaching Service. This seems to me to make the provision reasonable when it otherwise might have been unreasonable. Certainly it would not be at all desirable if an officer were entirely subject to the whims and fancies of one authoritarian who might be in charge of the Service. I agree with that completely. I do not think that everything is read into it by the honourable members when they make their assertions. 
In relation to clause 35.(1 0.)(a), while I am at best a bush lawyer in these matters I would have thought that the point taken up by the honourable member for Barton was that the only question raised here was that somebody with authority to give direction might operate in the wrong way. It seems that the honourable member disregards the word 'applicable' where the clause states:   a direction applicable to him as an officer . . . 
One would assume that if somebody in authority - some superior - directed an officer to drown his most irritable students the direction would not be regarded by a court or the Disciplinary Appeal Board as a direction applicable to that officer. So all these words have meanings, not only the words which are obnoxious to the honourable member for Barton. While I acknowledge the fears expressed by honourable members opposite, given reasonable goodwill - and we have talked about this in the general terms of the Bill- the provisions for appeal should make ample or at least adequate provision for those employed in the Service to have their interests protected. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of a revival of Swedish immigration to Australia? Has he noted the remarks of a spokesman for a group of recent Swedish arrivals indicting that excessive taxation and insufficient capacity for individual initiative were significant stimulants to this particular exodus from a socieity much praised by members opposite? Can the Prime Minister assure the House that it is the intention of this Government to maintain in Australia a society where individual freedom is not submerged beneath the impersonal weight of socialisation? 
One could hardly disagree with the final contention of the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  that the most basic purpose of all these State grants, whether they provide revenue or capital assistance, might well be to improve the lot of the recipients in the ultimate degree, by whom I mean the taxpayers and the citizens themselves. I do not think we would have any argument about that. As to what form those grants take in their application at public level, of course, there is hardly ever likely to be total agree ment. It is interesting to me that both the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and the honourable member for Scullin, have spent a significant part of their time in talking about urban problems. I think that is entirely appropriate in the sense that a large proportion of our people are, as is well known now, to be found in the capital cities of the States. So I think it is proper that we might talk about some of the problems which remain to be solved in the urban areas, and in particular in the largest  2,  Sydney and Melbourne. At the same time, and without wishing to spend an undue amount of my speech dealing with that field, I think it should be said - it has been said already at least twice in debates on matters of public importance in this House - that the problems of Tokyo, New York or London, real as they might be, should be taken as models not to follow - as I am well aware the honourable member for Melbourne Ports is taking them - rather than as indications of the present situation or even the immediately future situation in Sydney or Melbourne in particular. 
I want to make my position clear by saying one more thing, and that is that of course there are problems in Sydney or Melbourne and even in lesser cities around the world. But it is not realistic to talk about crises in those areas. It is realistic to talk about certain deficiencies. While one could not disagree with the honourable member for Scullin in wishing to make more pure or less impure the waters of the Yarra or any other local stream, one cannot really regard that as an urban crisis, although I do not think the honourable member claimed it to be that. Nor can one regard as an urban crisis the proliferation of motor traffic at certain hours of the day on certain major highways, because in those terms we can develop any inconvenience of living into a crisis. The term 'urban crisis' is much over used and misused at these times. 
Having said all that, I agree that we might well and properly be looking to spend substantial sections of our State grants in the area of urban development. 1 am sure we will have further opportunities to talk about that. I would go only one step further than the honourable members preceding me went, at least as far as I can recall what they said. I think that the problem will be given a great deal more specificity, a great deal more detail and point than has been referred to at this stage, when we really get to grips with urban problems in the economic sense. 
As has already been outlined, the 2 Bills being debated cognately tonight are ratifications, in a sense, of the results of the Premiers Conference of 14th February. The result of that meeting was that $86m in revenue and capital grants were made available to the States. I can forgive the 2 previous speakers for not making much of this, although it is true that they did not do the reverse. But I think it is my place at this time to remind the House that this particular allocation, the method of allocation and the reasons for the allocation of money were better received around the country than any similar grants have been received in recent political and economic history in Australia. That should not be forgotten, as in a sense it tended to be in the immediate and subsequent operation which involved a rise in the price of steel, with an immoderate public media hoo-ha. That was acknowledgedly unfortunate perhaps for the Government, but the fact remains that this allocation of $86m was a very well met one indeed. The unusual circumstances occurred in which all the Premiers went home, if not rejoicing certainly not lamenting, and to all intents and purposes the public media were unable to have them in a lamenting condition. That says something for the efficacy of the operation. 
We have properly touched on the question also of the underlying philosophy - that is a much overused word in this place - the political philosophy of FederalState relations. I think it is entirely proper that this point should be taken up. I do not think, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports anticipated, that under any colour of government in this country the problem is likely to be lessened appreciably in the near future. As he said too, it is fairly unlikely that we will see any significant demise of federal government. Therefore this relationship is a central one to our total political and economic operation in the foreseeable future. I do not have any immediate solutions to that. At the present time one could pose some solu tions which would be politically unacceptable and very newsworthy, but I rather think that the problem raised in respect to local government is not immediately one - it could be made to be one - for federal government. After all if you have a 3- tier system as we do it is entirely reasonable and, I believe, logical to consider the passage of the flow-on down the line. There is no basic reason, apart from the fact that they might not think they are getting enough, to propose that it should be the Federal Government per se which makes funds available to local government when in fact, between the 2, there are the State governments. 
So if we take the decreasing order of geographical entities, areas, statistical divisions or whatever they might be - for the most part governmental entities of one kind or another - it is entirely reasonable to think that the States may be able to make out of their allocations adequate provision for local government services. The fact that they do not or are said not to on some occasions does not immediately make a case for its being a Federal Government responsibility that they should be better served. Of course, that does not necessarily solve the local government problems. But if you have a structure I believe you should be using the structure as it appears to stand, and not cutting corners and working out alternative, complicated mechanisms for making up for certain deficiencies of operation of one tier, or one part of one tier, of that particular structure. 
Time is not infinite in this place. I think I should do some service to the particular situation of Tasmania in relation to these grants and perhaps raise some matters which have been dealt with by some people on some other occasions but could equally be raised again now, and perhaps put in one or two additional pertinent comments. These particular allocations of revenue and of capital assistance from the Premiers Conference were greeted by the Premier of Tasmania in this sort of way. He said: 
My own feeling is that the decision arrived at should do much to restore confidence in the private sector and this will provide the real answer to the unemployment problem. The overall outcome satisfied both the Commonwealth and the States. . . . 
That is a significant comment, in the sense that one of the major reasons for the allocation as it was at that time was to relieve the unemployment problem. As is well known, or should be, Tasmania tends to have a higher rate of unemployment at any time - seasonally adjusted or otherwise, but in absolute terms a higher rate of unemployment - than any of the other States. It is not difficult to find reasons for that sort of thing. In general terms, if one looks at any entity in its economic sense, one finds that its opportunities tend to be fewer if it is smaller. It tends to play second fiddle to a larger entity, other things being equal. The variety of employment tends to be less. The absolute figures, and thereby the flexibility of the operation of employment, tend to be less in a State such as Tasmania compared with a State such as New South Wales or any other larger entity. So we have this constant endemic condition of relatively high unemployment. At the time of the Premiers Conference the rate was a little under 3 per cent - again the highest in the Commonwealth - but 1 do not think that is a reflection- 
I do not know whether that will improve the unemployment rate or not. lt may indicate that the honourable member is otherwise unemployed. I am sure it will not make any difference to my opportunities. This condition is, therefore, one which is found, in general terms, throughout the economic sectors of any entity which has certain difficulties which generally larger units do not necessarily suffer. So it is of critical importance to Tasmania that it should be well served by such meetings as the Premiers Conference and, of course, by the Commonwealth's allocation of funds. It is of interest to note that, for a number of years under the Labor administration of Tasmania up to 1969. it was a very common assertion of the then Premier,  Mr Reece,  that Tasmania was poorly served by the Commonwealth and that it did not get its just desserts in terms of the. Commonwealth's allocation of funds. I was one of those who, year after year, used to assist in publishing advertisements especially at election time showing that Tasmania received something like 1.6 or 1.7 times the national average in return from taxation moneys and that it was something like 2 times the smallest per capita return for the worst off State, which I think was possibly Victoria. Anyway, it was doing very well in comparative terms. 
One can argue that it needed to do well and it still needs to do well because of the inherent problems of smallness. Nevertheless the claim made by the then Premier and oft repeated was not valid and I prefer to think that it was shown to be not valid. However, there are other problems even in this and they are not all external problems. Tasmania suffers a persistent and an extremely difficult to solve external problem in relation to shipping. It is a question that has been much canvassed and I do not intend, nor do I have time, to dilate upon it at any length now but I should like to take up one particular point in that regard because a State election is to be held in Tasmania within the next couple of weeks and I think it is entirely relevant. 
I hope 1 can raise this matter without any blatant form of electioneering because there exists inside Tasmania a situation which was arranged under the authority of the pre- 1969 Labor Government and continued under the Liberal Government since May of that year. The best reference to this can be found in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade which investigated shipping. In the minutes of that Committee in December 1970 one finds that the Tasmanian railways are in fact operating a subsidy of freight to and from - particularly from - southern Tasmania to the northern ports of that State. I am not greatly in favour of parochialism but there are times when attention needs to be drawn to certain things. I believe that this is one of them. The situation is such that, in charging a rate of something like $3 a ton on internal freight moving from the south to the north, one arrives at a situation whereby the freight movements to, for example, the port of Burnie are running at a rate of about 25 per cent of average revenue per ton mile. To the other mid-northern port of Devonport, the rate was 29 per cent of the revenue per ton mile and to the central Launceston area it was about 42 per cent of the ton mile revenue on that freight. 
That has obvious internal implications in relation to an external factor. The Australian National Line, in particular, is moving freight to and from Tasmania and, presumably, not particularly fussy as to which port it comes from as long as it gets the traffic. The situation arises in relation to this condition of northern subsidy where the southern part of Tasmania is having some, and even perhaps a significant part, of its natural traffic flow being creamed off or taken off through other outlets. So, we have here a basic Tasmanian governmental responsibility for moving certain economic advantages in the direction of the northern half of the State where 3 major ports operate to the disadvantage, relatively, of the capital city Hobart which still is the  main  port of Tasmania. I think that that point should be mentioned just in case by some small chance it gets on record somewhere because both the major political parties which are vying for office again on Saturday week or thereabouts should be in the position of having to face up to that situation, certainly as far as the southern people and the southern economy of Tasmania are concerned. In fact, I hope that they might have to give some answers on that matter, which I would see to be a great deal more central, important and significant than other matters of public consequence, such as the preservation of Lake Pedder and certain matters relating to parks and so on, interesting and even important as they might be. 1 must conclude what I have to say on this matter. I should like to reiterate one or two of the important features of what has taken place and which are covered by the 2 Bills about which we are talking tonight. An amount of $86m was made available in February by the Commonwealth through the Premiers Conference for the use of all States. By all accounts, the allocation was made in a highly professional and equitable way, and the result has been a significant decrease in rural unemployment in all States. That is a trend which we hope and trust will continue. Although I am not able to identify it State by State, this allocation has made significant amounts of funds available for &lt;he prosecution of urban and other devel opments such as the provision of sewerage and public works of other kinds, and this clearly is in the general interests of the people. 
Whether or not honourable members opposite agree that these expenditures are in precisely the best areas is a matter not so much of conjecture but of personal interest and opinion. Needless to say we will not agree completely on those issues now or at any other time. But I think that honourable members opposite should remember that if the occasion ever arises when they are in government and have to line up all the deficiencies which they would like to solve in one fell swoop, it will be interesting for those of us on the other side of the House to see how they would manage to deal with them in that way - in one fell swoop - because 1 think they will find that the task is equally as much beyond them as it is beyond this or any other government to solve all our problems at once. So, I believe that this Government has done quite well  incipiently  to solve as many problems as it has in relation to this allocation of funds at the February Premiers Conference. 
My question is  addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Does the Minister regard 'breezy iconoclasm' as a useful attribute for administration in foreign affairs? This phrase was taken from a newspaper editorial. Does he agree with me that the ability to discern between documented and hearsay evidence, and at least a nominal sympathy for old-fashioned patriotism, may be more desirable qualities in such a sensitive area of political operation? 
I believe we should get this matter into perspective. It is very heartening to take part in a non-political debate, according to some of those on the other side of the House. The question here is not one of whether or not people on this side of the House or any side of the House want to hear petitions. There was a great implication in several speeches made that it is not even intended that petitions should be heard or read. Words such as 'democracy' are tossed about with gay abandon. But I think that we should just get this thing right because no-one is opposing that proposition. Honourable members are looking to the most effective and most efficient way of using the time of this House, subject to the fact that these petitions shall be heard or shall be seen, or both. 
It is not necessary for me to discuss how the flow of petitions has greatly increased in very recent times. I think when we are considering the various comments that have been made by members such as the flamboyant honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  - from the waving rice land of that area telling us partly the situation and speculating about all the rest - and the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  waving the banner of democracy in this matter, we should just look at this. The origin of the petition was an approach by a subject to his king. The subject had no parliamentary recourse; he had nobody protecting him. 
I am perfectly right and 1 will not require the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  to inform me on this, although I thank him very much. The subject had no redress other than to petition the monarch who, as is well known, operated in a decidedly authoritarian manner at many times over many years. That is not the same situation, as is implied widely on the other side of the House, as electors petitioning through their democratically elected representatives to this institution, They are just not the same things. But accepting that as the situation, as indeed it is, we accept the proposition that we should continue what is, in a sense, an anachronistic operation because it is an alternative avenue for members of the public to get their views before this institution if they do not have the time or inclination to be seen or if the member does not have the time or inclination to see numbers of people and to put an essentially similar point of view from all that number. 
Still trying to keep this in perspective, do not let us pretend that all petitions come from thousands and thousands of people. As is well known, they can have a minimum of one signature. It is true that very occasionally they may have up to several thousand, but more often then not in present times when these chain petitions are operating, petitions formally organised by particular bodies in the community - perhaps they are no less representative for that reason but they are nevertheless organised, as against voluntarily organised petitions emanating from the will of the public and untutored by any other element in the community - the average number may well be nearer 10 or 100 than a thousand, although I do not know. On many occasions 1 have presented petitions with a single small page of signatures. They might have been more genuine in intent than a petition containing thousands of names, but do not let us pretend that there are vast seas of unrepresented constituents unable to work through other processes to present their points of view. 
Do not let the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  pretend that this is not a political situation, whether or not there is a free vote on the issue here, merely because some people in the community genuinely believe that they have a case to put and that this might be the best way to put it. They might not have been knowledgeable about seeing their representative, or one from an adjoining electorate, to put their point of view. They might find that this is the best mode of expression. Nevertheless, they are not on their own because there have been, as I indicated earlier, some people, particularly in the last year or two, who put their point of view in a very concerted and organised fashion. The result of that has been mentioned here already. It has had the efficacy on one or two occasions of achieving such things as the setting up of, say, the Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation. I suggest, as have other honourable members, that this is an entirely admirable result. But I believe that we should keep this thing in perspective. 
When one talks about upgrading the status of petitions, and if one accepts the point I have made that there are alternatives such as access of the public to honourable members in this place, one is comparing the time spent on petitions with the time spent in other ways. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  earlier in this debate talked about the number of days we sit and so on, but he puts aside some interesting competitive propositions while making this point. The fact that we sit here for 165 or 300 days, out of whatever greater number it is, is not really relevant to this issue because it is well known to all honourable members that there are vast numbers of other things that honourable members are doing in the interim. If there were not we would be here many more days than we are in our electorates and attending to other business. So I do not think that argument is of direct relevance to this issue. We are not pushing right, left and centre at the moment for being here on X number of sitting days. We accept the proposition that we are here for so many days a week and for so many weeks a year. 
Having accepted that, do not let us pretend that we are unhappy about it for the purpose of this issue. Having got that far, it is then a question of what we compare petitions with. Do we compare them with the major debates in this House or with the question time of honourable members? I would submit with all humility and with all deference to the average petitioner, if I could find such a person, that it is more important to use the air time we have at the beginning of the Parliament each day for honourable members to pui in the form of questions their petitions, their points of view or perhaps the points of view of organisations which have made representation to them by writing to them prolifically, by calling on them or by a number of other methods, than to upgrade the status of petitions to the point where they may well supervene their importance above the importance of other things such as question dme. 1 make no apology for suggesting that question time should have priority. This is a time when honourable members from both sides of the House may take up points of high relevance and often with considerable expertise in the field, although not always. This is more than one can say for a great number of petitions. After all, we are elected and go through some considerable process to be elected. Having finally got a majority out of some 40,000 or 60,000 electors to enable us to be here, for what that is worth, we are in a position to ask questions. There are some people who imply that that should take second place to the process of presenting innumerable petitions. To put my priorities, as distinct from others, in that order is not to say that I do not want to hear petitions. They should be heard but we should make their hearing as effective as possible in terms of time used in getting these messages across, particularly when the message is a much repeated message from people across the country. We should in one way or another register the repetition and the extent to which there is feeling on the matter, but that having been done the contract is fulfilled, at least up to that point. It is not proper to suggest, as did the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  with whom I heartily concur in a number of his observations, that every petition is the last despairing cry of the petitioner. 
My honourable friend, the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  talked about protests on a number of occasions as though petitions were automatically protests. I do not believe that is the case. Some of them are constructive propositions for government action in fields which, usually for good reason, have not been tapped by the executive or government of the time. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports talked about political overtones and the honourable member for Sydney spoke about non-political argument in this debate. Surely in this most political of political forums in the country it is not exactly improper for petitions calling for debate or anything else, whether free, fettered or otherwise, to have political overtones, undertones or any other tones one likes to think of. Surely, however free this becomes, real politics are involved because when we are thinking about organised petitions as distinct from a petition from our next door neighbour, who suddenly has a worry about some particular aspect of the economy or that something else is not working, there is a great distinction to be made. This is what was being referred to by honourable members on this side of the House when they were using the words which implied the term 'genuine'. They were not talking about whether or not a petition was genuine once it had been put into the system and passed by the Clerk; they were talking about the motivation for petitions. 
Let us not confuse the issues. I hope I have not done so any more than is necessary. The situation is one whereby nowadays we get almost innumerable petitions presented in this House. We are attempting to deal with them in the most efficacious manner but in so doing and suggesting, as one of several alternatives - some may agree with that and I with this - that these petitions get into a rightful place in relation to major debates, to question time and other things which have to be done in this place, is not, as was suggested by honourable members opposite, to suggest authoritarianism. It seems to me that some honourable members opposite who have already spoken are at times against any authority of the Parliament and certainly of the Executive. Let us wait and see how much authority emanates if the Executive happens to change at the forthcoming election. God forbid! 
Nevertheless, it is a question essentially for the Standing Orders Committee. It should be recognised as such. It has not been recognised in the whole of this debate. Throughout this debate it has not been recognised as a matter which has been considered by the Standing Orders Committee, at least not in the amendment of the honourable member for Riverina  [Mr Grassby),  if not exactly as it reads then in substance as it reads. For the time being it is being rejected. I do not suggest that because of that the honourable member for Riverina is in any sense in error. It is a persuasive amendment which he puts. [ say that, having had the honour to move an amendment a year or so ago in relation to speaking times which in fact took precedence over the recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee. I do not suggest that the Committee's recommendations are sacrosanct, but nevertheless the Committee is a representative one. It has on it some of the highest officers amongst the parliamentarians. 
It is not fair play to suggest that this matter is being decided by a great party block. The matter has been canvassed within my party and informal views have been put forward from an ad hoc committee. I believe that the same thing has happened on the opposite side of the House. So it appears that the Standing Orders Committee has made a series of recommendations in full cognisance of the situation. If that is not sufficient, and it may not be, we can vote against the recommendation, but for my part  1  believe that the subject has been quite adequately canvassed, and I think one might properly use the word 'researched'. Therefore, while agreeing that there may be some sense in setting up yet another committee to look at this particular area of operations, namely petitions, I believe that for the time being our prime objective is to hear these petitions presented and to take the heat, as it were, off those who wish to have their views presented. They hear their views presented, if they are lucky. They know that in sheer weight of numbers, if nothing else, if they have a popular petition their views will be heard. Perhaps they want something more formal done about it, but I would hate to see- 
One who takes notice of gallup polls should have better things to do. The proposition is that these petitions, formidable though they might be, representative though they might be of the average electors or of some electors, should take their rightful place in the affairs of this Parliament. I believe that the current recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee is effective in this respect Perhaps at a future time when the number of petitions diminishes, if it ever does, it may be seen better to take some other course of action, but for the time being it certainly concerns some honourable members that the place of petitions is assuming very considerable importance and apparently at times in an apparent lack of perception that there are some other very persuasive things and very important things which we attempt from time to time to carry out in this place. 

 Mr DONALD CAMERON (Griffith)Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I do,  Mr Speaker.  As I heard the debate and remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in an impromptu fashion and without any notice, it seemed to me that he made a direct imputation that I had been associating with people who were in turn associating with extremists views, if not actions, in this community. As far as I am able to recall the facts - I have checked them with one telephone call - I think that the particular meeting, reported in the 'Review' of 8th- 14th April and I presume quoted from by the Leader of the Opposition, was a meeting at the St. Carlo Hall in North Hobart at which the Archbishop of Split,  Dr Franic,  was welcomed by the Croatian community. There was no banner, as the newspaper reported, saying 'Glory to the Fuhrer of the independent State of Croatia' at that meeting or at any other meeting of the Croatian community of Hobart which I attended or which I did not atend That statement is made unequivocally by the secretary of that group,  Mr Micheal  Furjanic. I resent greatly any such suggestion or implication by the Leader of the Opposition, as I heard his remarks over the intercom this morning. 
I welcome the first loan provided by the Asian Development Bank to the Papua New Guinea Development Bank for the purpose of development in that Territory. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has just ranged over quite a wide financial and economic area and I do not intend to match him in that respect. However, I do want to draw attention to one or two particular areas of interest. Perhaps I could take up one or two of the honourable member's comments because he raised a number of areas of concern. I say not in any way to his discredit that he raised matters which quite substantially cannot be answered at this point of time. 
The function of this loan is to be, we would imagine, substantially along the same channels as those already used for the allocation of loan moneys from other sources, particularly from this country, for the Papua New Guinea Development Bank to use as it would. The main function of the Bank is to provide credit for the purposes of primary production and for the establishment or development of industrial or commercial undertakings, particularly small scale undertakings. Of course, whether or not that intent is carried out exactly in practice is something which would be hard to say. Indeed it would be little short of miraculous if in fact it came out exactly as intended. Nevertheless, this has some point when one considers the number of remarks that were made, I think properly, by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports in relation to where this money is going, and in particular as to the relative merits of rural, commercial or industrial sectors of the economy. Since the establishment of the Papua New Guinea Development Bank in 1967 to the end of June 1971, the Bank had received capita] allocations of over $13m from the Administration's budget. The 1971-72 Budget contained an allocation of a further $3.6m. 
The most significant matter is one which was touched on in passing, or perhaps a little more thoroughly, by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. It is one which concerns me considerably and it should concern all those people who are interested in the development in some way or other of the Territory of Papua New Guinea. I refer to the allocation of these moneys. Whether or not one likes to talk about infrastructure and other things, the fact is that there is a limited number of areas into which loan moneys of this kind can go. The most fundamental division is between the indigenous population and the expatriates, whether they be private individuals or organisations. There can be further divisions in the various sectors of the economy, such as industrial, rural and commerc ial. I would like to incorporate in Hansard Table 1 from the Papua New Guinea Development Bank Annual Report and Financial Statements for 1970-71, which indicates the total approvals of loans by the Papua and New Guinea Development Bank and shows the break-up of those loans for the last 2 years to that time. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I am reliably informed that an alternative interpretation of the Croatian words which were written on the wall is 'Lest we forget the leader of the independent state of Croatia', which to me is a much less emotive form of words than that chosen by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr- Whitlam). 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General and is supplementary to that asked by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition earlier today. Is the Minister aware that the field of current affairs is regarded as the most sensitive in the jurisdiction of the Australian Broadcasting Commission? Is he further aware that the ABC's own guidelines recognise this situation in laying down that the declared political bias of an operative destroys credibility? Does he agree that no area of public service is so closely concerned with the daily presentation of politics for mass consumption, and that failure to discriminate in such matters can stem only from opportunism or incompetence? 
It is a fascinating proposition which has been put by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  that this Bill has been introduced for purely political purposes. I am sure that those capable officers within the Department of Labour and National Service who have been working day and night for months to get decent formulations in this particular Bill would take that remark very much to heart. Nevertheless that is the honourable member's point of view which he has totally and insubstantially put forward and it seems to me what he thinks of this Bill. We have 69 clauses on 46 pages and if that is all political content and nothing of good intent for the industrial field 1 will be very much surprised. Perhaps we should remind the honourable member for Corio and some of his colleagues that the aim of this Bill is to achieve the ordinary conduct of industrial relations, that is to say, conduct of industrial relations among the major parties. There normally seem to be 3 major parties - the unions, the employers and the public. Sometimes one might be tempted to think that there are 4  -  the union leaders, the unionists they lead, the. employers and the public. It seems that on many occasions we have a question of workers and the led. It seems to me that the leaders are not always working in the best interests of the workers. 
Certain of the terms of this Bill, and in particular the principal terms such as in the title, are taken very much in passing by those who are familiar with them. It is perhaps wise to draw to attention the fact that the terms do have specific meanings and that there are great implications in those quite basic meanings of 'conciliation' and 'arbitration'. To take a dictionary definition of those' terms, because I think it is fundamental to what we are talking about, 'conciliation' means the action of bringing into harmony or reconcilement. When 'conciliation' is put into a pseudo legal context, as in a court or similar body, it means a court for composing disputes by offering to the parties a voluntary settlement, the case proceeding to a judicial court if this is not accepted. That is what we are talking about in relation to conciliation, not what has been said, or at least implied, on a number of occasions tonight. 'Arbitration', the second leg of this industrial journey, is defined as the settlement of a dispute or question at issue by one to whom the conflicting parties agree to refer their claims in order to obtain an equitable decision. 
After listening to some honourable members opposite and after seeing some of the procedures which follow their line of thinking in the industrial sphere one might be forgiven for thinking that they have never seen the import or intent of those simple definitions because far too often it appears that they want 3 bites of the cherry. They want not only conciliation and potential reconciliation or reconcilement in a friendly way but also arbitration as the next step after the friendly round fails to come to an agreement. To most people of reasonable intent that is sufficient. But they want a third step. They want 3 bites of the cherry. They want to have it 3 ways. They want to reject the decisions at the arbitration level with which they do not agree. They are happy to go through all the procedures until they get to a decision which is not quite the one that they wanted. Everybody else abides by the decisions but, far too often for the good of the community, they do not. This is something that concerns honourable members on this side of the House even if it does not appear to concern some honourable members opposite. 
The basic concepts of conciliation and arbitration have not really changed over the many decades that this particular form of industrial relations has been in operation. The conciliation and arbitration system was based on  4  fundamental principles which, to me, still appear to be valid - firstly, that industrial disputes can be settled most equitably and reasonably by a process of conciliation and, if that does not work out, by an independent adjudication based on the merits of the dispute and not on the parties concerned; secondly, it is a fundamental principle of conciliation and arbitration that neither side should be able to use superior bargaining or economic strength to coerce the other party in the dispute or in the arbitration; thirdly, it is held that, insofar as constitutional difficulties permit, the protection of the system should be available to all with impartiality and with equitability; and, fourthly, it is held that the community should not suffer through the inability of sections or groups to reconcile their differences. That was very good thinking at the time of its introduction - so good, in fact, that it appears to have almost unqualified and certainly total application to the present industrial scene not only in this country but around the civilised world. Again, I believe it would do a great deal of service to the community if those honourable members opposite to a man were able to keep those basic principles in view when they are considering this particular field of interest and, sometimes, of conflict. 
If we examine the situation a little further in terms of the total context of this large and important modified Bill which has been on the statute books for so long, we have, as has been pointed out by my friend the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  and by others a situation of wage induced inflation, about which honourable members opposite do not want to hear too much, a situation of greatly increased strikes in recent years and a situation extending to the point where it becomes necessary to solve disputes such as the State Electricity Commission dispute in Victoria, because not only are the  10.000  or  11,000  people officially designated affected but also about  20  times that number are in jeopardy or are without a job. Those figures are differentially very important. 
However, we are not here talking about wage induced inflation in the sense that it is an individual problem but rather in the sense that the aggregation of individual workers is making it a problem for the community. So often, honourable members opposite focus their arguments on the individual situation. 
Of course we want the average worker so called to be able to live. But honourable members opposite fail to recognise that relatively speaking, the number of workers so called is such a large proportion of the total work force that a relatively small rise in their salaries obviously has very great implications for the general economy. Honourable members opposite fail to take cognisance of that fact when talking about the individual. 
It is perfectly all right to take cognisance of the individual situation. No body can be blamed for doing that. In fact, they can be commended for doing so. However, it is not a balanced view of the matter to fail to recognise that if there are several million of those individuals, the combined impact of what happens to them will be significant. That does not imply any great interest in providing differentials as between different areas of work in the population, as the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  in one of his innumerable interjections suggested a moment ago. 
The honourable member for Sturt might be interested to know that in my family background I had a grandfather who was a miner at Broken Hill and a schoolteacher father and I have done one or two other things myself. It is rather interesting that honourable members opposite take to themselves the complete responsibility for being able to define to us or to anybody else what is a worker. At the same time as honourable members are talking about the wage levels that they want to achieve inside or outside the arbitration system, there are people who basically are working  40  or less hours a week. I wonder sometimes whether they forget that we might be working  80  hours a week and that some people - in fact, almost by definition, professional people - who may be earning  2  or  3  times or even  4  times the salary that the average worker receives probably are also working 4 times that number of hours. On a pro rata basis they are probably earning little more than the people who have not entered into substantial training and who have not gone for 6 or 7 or 10 years training - whatever it might be these days - without pay until such time as they are in a position to earn reasonably substantial incomes. Honourable members opposite should bear that in mind when they talk about the worker so called. I am not against the workers; I am all in favour of the workers but I happen to be one of them. 
The Australian Labor Party and, in particular, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  somewhat aided and abetted it appeared by his Leader, made valiant attempts within the last year or so to get some sort of reasonableness into the ALP view on industrial relations. However, they have failed and I would like to touch on that point a little more. They failed in that effort because the forces of union leadership were too much for them as likewise were the forces of the Parliamentary Labor Party. It is erroneous to say that I or other members on this side of the House are trying to blame the workers so called for any problem which exists. I would blame the Parliamentary Labor Party. I would blame certain union leaders. I would blame  Mr Hawke  and a few people of that kind. I would not blame the average man on the factory floor who, by definition, is not exactly among the educated elite of this country and who is not in a position to be able to make his own decisions individually, sensibly and ably in the same way as the people who lead him are able to make them. It is time honourable members opposite recognised that occasionally and conceded that some of their industrial problems stem from that situation and not merely from the area which they would like to identify, namely, the employers. 
It is not in any sense a shocking statement and if the honourable member for Sturt were vaguely in touch with his Party's representations in the field of education he would know that my statement was totally founded on what his Party has to say about inequalities in education. So, do not try to pretend that the world is operating according to the way you see it - God forbid. 
There is a very decided ALP culpability insofar as, to put it mildly, the industrial relations field does not operate as well as it might. There was a fines campaign, if I might call it that, or a mini-campaign in industrial relations conducted by. the honourable member for Hindmarsh. He tried - it appeared valiantly - for a while to suggest that when in Government the ALP would take away the penal provisions of the Act and would replace those provisions by an inclination to fine individual unionists at the rate of $20 a day for going on strike in breach of negotiated agreements. Where did the honourable member get with that proposal? Not very far, because it immediately drew the fire of union leaders of some sort or another, such as  Mr Carr  of the miscellaneous collection of 26 Victorian so called rebel unions. I could quote from these people at some length if there were time for me to do so.  His  proposal drew that fire very quickly. As well as union dissatisfaction, Messrs Whitlam and Cameron faced the politically humiliating experience of having their proposals rejected by the Parliamentary Labor Party within 2 days of their delivery of this new package of apparently and hopefully enlightened industrial thinking by the ALP. A meeting of the Parliamentary Labor Party overwhelmingly voted against any penalties as a result of strikes. This fact was printed in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 14th October 1971 and there has not been a single interjection from the honourable member for Sturt on this particular matter, because it is right. It is seen to be right and it is in print. 
Of course, we have the well known situation in the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the various unions in which, under the rearrangements in Victoria and New South Wales, the left wing control has increased considerably both in number and its representation on the major bodies - the Federal Executive and the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party. Of course, these pressures have been moving to make life more difficult for our would be enlightened shadow minister for industrial relations or whatever the honourable member for Hindmarsh is. It is quite clear that the forces of reason are well outweighed by the forces of prejudice and possibly of ignorance. 
Earlier in my speech tonight there was an interjection which suggested, I think, that provisions in this Conciliation and Arbitration Bill have been changed. Of course they have been changed. What happened was that in December of last year the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  put down what was generally regarded as a White Paper. He made the special point that there was to be consultation and that suggestions would be taken on board. Of course, in that situation some changes would be made. That was the intent of the operation. That was nearly 6 months ago. So it is rather profitless, not to say stupid, to interject or to comment that in fact there have been changes when these changes are the result of the stated intention. In fact, the White Paper was presented at the request of honourable members opposite. Their Leader continually says that he wants more White Papers, and I go along with him on that. We have here an example of a White Paper, or the next best thing to it. In fact, the projected legislation has been amended in certain respects, after the Minister has had several consultations with a large number of union representatives and has given them the opportunity to make their representation. 
Nevertheless, it was incumbent upon the honourable member for Hindmarsh to make a comment, somewhat adverse, in relation to the Government's proposals which were outlined back in December of last year. He somewhat predictably opened his remarks on the Bill with a denunciation of the Government's activities in the field of industrial relations generally, and he stated specifically that our statement of last December served as notice of an election early 'next year'. That meant early in 1972. Of course, the early election did not come about. In fact, most of what else the honourable member for Hindmarsh said did not come about. I think that it has been conceded by most people that the object of the exercise has been reasonably faithfully carried out. In counterpoint, while the honourable member for Hindmarsh made his comments, the 

 President of the ACTU,  Mr Hawke,  made notably little comment on this Bill over the ensuing months. In fact, one wonders why he has been so silent except for the occasional outburst to say that we should leave the arbitration system if it does not suit us. Otherwise, he has made virtually no detailed comment on the Bill. One begins to think that perhaps he believes it is not a bad instrument after all. 
Let me make this point clear in case honourable members who preceded me in this debate have not done so. The Government is not against unions. The Government is for properly run unions. It wants to see, as anybody with a grain of sense would want to see - the work force reasonably organised but not led by the nose. The Government is against antipublic interest employers. The Minister has made a number of statements criticising employers who have not had the intestinal fortitude or nous to take strong stands against particular forces in areas of industrial relations. It would be helpful if I could hear myself think over the interjections of the honourable member for Sturt 
I should like to refer to the assertion of the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  earlier in the evening that we brought down this Bill to ensure that industrial peace did not break out. But the bringing down of the Bill will ensure that there is industrial peace. He asserts that the Government wants industrial disruption for an election campaign. There is no doubt whatsoever that, if the unions continue to act in the way they did while the SEC strike was continuing in Victoria, that would be the best thing that could happen to the country at large and to this Government in particular. But of course the unions saw the writing on the wall, and that strike was brought to a halt before things got too dangerous politically. This Government does not want industrial disruption to the detriment of the worker or of the public. It is perfectly ridiculous to suggest that we are living in the past, trying to keep old hatreds going - that was the phrase used - and that this is merely a question of industrial provocation. 
Time does not allow me to look at the proposed new structure which is envisaged in this Bill, but I think the restructuring of the conciliation and arbitration system is probably the most important part of the whole deal. I will look at that in more detail and at other matters, such as sanctions and secret ballot proposals, when we get down to considering the clauses - all 69 of them. These are highly constructive propositions, whether or not one agrees with the detail. To put it bluntly, one would have to be a shingle short to try to write these propositions down as being pure political provocation when, in fact, they can be read and be seen to be totally constructive proposals which have been made in an endeavour to make a more flexible system for the general good of industrial relationships and for the betterment of the community and the general economy. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Jacobi)  adjourned. 
I want to discuss the resignation of 4 men from the Australian Broadcasting Commission who were involved in the production of Tasmania's 'This Day Tonight' television programme. The matter is of far more than local significance; indeed it has implications for the future conduct of current affairs programmes on television in Australia. I would be grateful,  Mr Acting Speaker,  if the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster),  who is interjecting, would allow me to think. Bruce Grundy, John Honey, Barry Pierce and Roger Lupton resigned on what they see to be a matter of principle. I believe that they are correct in their assessment, that the principle exists, and that it should be adhered to by the ABC or any other organisation whose responsibility it is to interpret current events to the general public. The 4 men resigned because their executive producer stood for election to the Tasmanian House of Assembly in April, and having failed to secure a seat was reinstated in his same executive position. Their reasons for resigning were clearly stated. Particular reference was made to the ABC management's stated views of current affairs reporting. The  Chairman, Sir Robert  Madgwick, in a speech on 29th July 1969 said: 
ABC current affairs programmes are providing  a  significant forum . . . where differing opinions can be expressed and discussed and held up to judgment. ... In news the ABC's watchword is accuracy. In current affairs it is impartiality. 
At a meeting in September 1971 the Commission discussed its current affairs programmes in some detail and reviewed its policy decisions of recent years. The resultant guidelines, the circulation of which embraced the State managers and executive producers of "This Day Tonight', included the following comment: 
The revelation of a personal commitment in the Commission's view, reduces the reporter's value to the ABC . . . until the point is reached where his credibility disappears. 
The comments read further: 
Of no less importance is the pursuit of a policy of impartiality, in the selection of subjects to be dealt with in current affairs programmes. 
It is clear to me that in taking their stand the members of the Tasmanian 'This Day Tonight' team acted in accordance with the expressed aims of their employing authority and in that sense alone deserve the support of the Commission. But were the Commission's view of its role in current affairs less well formed I would argue the Tightness of the cause and the necessity for principles to be formulated and followed. And I would do that irrespective of party affiliations, although I concede a certain stimulus arising from the fact that the cause of this particular problem was a candidate for the Australian Labor Party and thus with opposed political interests. 
There is, in my opinion, no area of public interest and education as politically sensitive as current affairs. Policy issues are ventilated, politicians are shown arguing the issues or their role in them and other people are given a platform to discuss both. This occurs day to day. The selection of the subjects and persons to be portrayed to a mass audience is a highly sensitive responsibility. It is not easy and it is not in the nature of the task to be able to please all points of view on every occasion. More reason, then, for those charged with such responsibility to be politically neutral, or at least not openly to espouse a specific political philosophy. They may then be subject to accusations of poor judgment but not of political bias. Any known bias must arouse suspicion and thus undermine if not destroy the credibility of the programme. 
Comments have been made, since I first made public comment on this matter and drew it to the attention of the Acting Postmaster-General on 3rd May, that any public servant should be entitled to seek political office and deploring attempts to have  Mr Holgate  removed from his position. I could not agree more. I made my maiden speech on the working of democracy and I hope I have some appreciation of it. I defend anyone's right to stand for election to Parliament. But this is not at issue. Noone has suggested that  Mr Holgate  should not be re-employed by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, nor that any other public servant should disqualify himself from future employment through becoming a parliamentary candidate. What we do say is that it is necessary and possible to discriminate among positions of varying sensitivity. It is as fatuous to imply that all positions in the Public Service have the same political content, the same access to the public, or the same executive authority as the executive producer of a current affairs television programme. I have already shown the ABC's awareness of the need for discrimination. It can also be argued that the wording of staff rule 172, under which  Mr Holgate  was re-employed, acknowledges the problem. It says: 
The general manager may,  upon  application (by a person who has resigned to contest an election) . . . reappoint him to the Commission's staff at the same salary as he had immediately prior to his retirement. 
It says 'may' not 'shall', and it identifies salary, not specific position. This is a significant choice of words which can hardly be fortuitous. Nor can it be said that the provisions have been interpreted to  Mr Holgate's  disadvantage. He has his old job at his old salary, while the men whose resignations were made in accord with the Commission's principles have been re-employed at salaries $1,000 to $2,000 below their levels of a few days earlier. I compliment them on their stand; I sympathise with them in their reduced circumstances. They are not ratbags. They are at least as able as their interstate counterparts - a situation not easily achieved by the small Tasmanian community, in competition with larger entities. 
While  Mr Holgate's  campaign is not of first concern to me, some details of his actions before and after his resignation from the ABC are relevant. 

 Mr Holgate's candidature was well known before he resigned from the ABC. On 21st March 'The Examiner' newspaper carried a story under the heading T.V. Man Seeks Bass Seat'. It stated: 
Television producer,  Mr  Harry Holgate, will seek ALP endorsement in Bass for the State Election. He is almost certain to receive endorsement.  Mr Holgate  has withdrawn from his position as Executive Producer of  the current affairs programme, This Day Tonight. He has moved to Launceston to fight the campaign. . . . 
On 22nd March the Tasmanian Manager of the ABC,  Mr A.  J. Winter, circulated a memo which said in part: 

 Mr Holgate, because of  the sensitive nature  of  commentary on election matters at this time, is not actively associated with the day to day running  of  T.D.T., but is working on general matters answerable to me. He will continue to do so until his resignation, when  Mr Grundywill  become in all respects the Acting Executive Producer of  T.D.T. 
On 23rd March an advertisement in 'The Examiner' headed 'Why Harry Holgate wants to serve Bass with Labor' said in part: I  have had a continuing close link with  the 
North. ... As an executive producer  of  This Day Tonight (formerly Line Up) with  a  large  Northern  audience. . . . 
On 27th March another advertisement in The Examiner' headed 'Why Harry Holgate is living in Bass' said: 
I have resigned from the A.B.C. and have returned to live in Launceston. . . . 
On 28th March  Mr Holgate's  resignation became effective. 
On 2nd May, the election having taken place on 22nd April,  Mr Holgate  was reemployed as Executive Producer of 'This Day Tonight'. On the same day The Examiner' reported from the declaration of the poll that  'Mr Holgate  said he hoped to contest an election " in the near future, somewhere in northern Tasmania " '. The next day  Mr Holgate  was reported to say That is not what I meant. I have resumed my career and intend to concentrate on it'. The newspaper did not publish any retraction of its initial report. 
On 3rd May the General Secretary of the Australian Journalists' Association,  Mr Crossland,  issued a statement in support of  Mr Holgate  and expressing disappointment in the resignation action of the 4 TDT men. Following the expression of concern at this statement by some local members of the AJA, a meeting of the AJA District Committee on 5th May considered a resolution dissenting from  Mr Crossland's  statement. The motion was defeated 6 votes to 5 votes, with  Mr Holgate  present and voting. The four TDT men had made no approach to the AJA, believing that this was not a simple matter of journalistic ethics appropriate for that body's consideration. 
In the 10 minutes available to me in this debate to put this matter on the record I hope I have indicated the main issues. In these days the identification of principles is not the hallmark of our community. It is heartening to me to find people prepared to put their livelihood on the line for a belief in proper procedure. I trust that they will receive the support their cause deserves. 
I do not want unnecessarily to prolong a debate on a clause which I understand was not to be contested and on which we have already spent an hour or so. However, may I just make a couple of comments because I stand amazed at the argument on this clause put by honourable members on both sides of the chamber. We are talking about writing some form of words which will specify the sorts of people who can do a particular job. It is essentially a judicial job and therefore the remarks of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  clearly have some relevance. But he cuts himself short to the extent that he suggests that only people with legal training are, by training, in a position to appreciate arguments and facts readily rather than to be obscured or diverted by emotion, or by diverting upon persons, and other things of that sort. Anybody with a decent academic record will have been trained to appreciate those sorts of things. It is true that it will not be appreciated by them in a specific legal sense, but in general terms we are talking about the use of words, about the understanding of what is proposed by one side or another, and so on. 
Honourable members opposite in debating this clause tonight seem to have exceeded their usual conspiratorial theory of government and to have moved on to a totally Machiavellian theory of government, believing that every possible word will be interpreted in the worst possible way. We have this sort of thing: The paragraph provides that somebody shall have attained a particular standard. It speaks of a degree of a university or an educational qualification of a similar standard. It does not say 'of the same standard'. It does not say 'shall have a B.A., LL.B., B.Ec, PhD.' or anything else. It just indicates the sort of standard that we wish them to acquire, and that implies that they have had some training in the sort of thinking needed for the judgments to be made in this situation. 
The paragraph then goes on and gives 2 or 3 possibilities for the fields of concern. It leaves the matter wide open, however, and says, 'or some other field of study considered by the Governor-General to have substantial relevance to the duties of a Deputy President'. How wider could it be than that? After all that it says, 'and is, in the opinion of the Governor-General, by reason of his qualifications, experience and the standing in the Australian community, a fit and proper person to discharge the duties of a Deputy President'. It is true that that is added after the reference to educational qualifications, but surely it would be open to anybody of reasonable will, or even of unreasonable will, to see an outstanding person and to fit that particular category a person who happened to have graduated from the school of hard knocks rather than from a university or somewhere else. 
I would make only one other remark. It seems to me that however valid, however persuasive the argument of the honourable member for Hunter and of one or two others in reference to people who were not fortunate to have had formal training up to some sort of level 20 years ago, or even 10 or IS years ago, that argument is not relevant to the projection in this case. In the past 10 years we have had perhaps 3 times the number of university graduates that we had previously, not to mention colleges of advanced education, technical colleges, institutes and all the rest. The generality today is for people with any sort of ability at all of the kind we are talking about, or with the potential for it, to get through some sort of forma] training. If they do not, there is something very likely to be wrong. We are not talking about the self-made men, about all those people here and elsewhere who never had an opportunity to get formal training, so when we are considering this proposition let us try to move, roughly speaking, up to the 1950s or so. Frankly, given all those things, I do not see how anybody of real and outstand ing merit would be likely to be excluded from consideration for appointment as a presidential member of the Commission. 
I would make only one other remark, and that is that 1 heartily endorse the possibility - it is only the possibility - of people other than lawyers being added to give balance and perhaps a little- more flexibility and a little more breadth of experience to this forum. It is only that; it is not saying that we will suddenly populate it with economists and other sorts of nonlawyers. One cannot gainsay the expertise of the lawyers in the legal field, but we are talking about a wide area of human interest. I believe that clause 8 is particularly well drafted, given the problems of making clear the position without tieing it down too hard and actually trying to name the members for the next 20 years. 
of  Mr Sweeney  to us or in fact his interpretation of himself to the Committee. I suppose that underlines the essential problems of trying to get harmony over the particular matters contained in this lengthy Bill. I felt that the honourable member was arguing against himself. He talked about concentration upon judicial functions. Unless I interpret the matter wrongly, I would have thought that the stage of conciliation by definition, and perhaps even by practice, was one in which there was an attempt to bring people together in their somewhat diverse views on a particular matter, but that if, that having failed, further action were necessary, then somebody had to make an interpretation - preferably a judicial interpretation - of an issue. In the first place, we are trying to deal with parties perhaps in a fairly highly personal sense. Secondly, you have failed to achieve your object and you are then dealing with an issue, a decision which is unlikely to be welcomed equally by both parties. To me it is entirely logical that that should be so. If you can accept that, as I realise the honourable member for Prospect does not, but as the Government does, then it seems to me that what is provided for in this clause is entirely in line with that for the better execution of what is intended. 
If in fact you separate the conciliatory and arbitrary functions, then that is likely to be so. The arbitrator will come in at the arbitral stage and will not have puttered around trying to make friends of opposite views at an earlier position. This makes provision for that in the sense that the arbitral powers are given to the presidential member or the arbitration commissioner. In other words, as far as the presidential member is concerned, this means that the judicial function is being concentrated on the arbitral side. I would have thought that that was in line with what the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  was asking for last week in relation to earlier clauses of this Bill; that in fact if there is legal expertise relevant to this matter - and one can hardly deny that - then it might best be applied to the arbitral side because there, in effect, you are deciding on issues and legalities. The clause also provides that the presidential member is no longer confined to full bench matters. I interpret that to mean a greater flexibility of operation in these negotiations. I really think that is the nub of the matter. I believe that in any logic - and I would hope in practice - this would make for a better functioning of the dual functions of this particular body. 
I do not believe that the honourable members for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  Sydney  (Mr Cope)  and Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  should be allowed to get away entirely with their arguments. In particular, my honourable friend from Corio put some of the worst arguments by analogy which it has been my misfortune to hear. At the same time I concede that a good deal of what the honourable member for Hawker in particular had to say was persuasive and even tenable because he was concerned about a situation where he can point to various groups in the community, particularly those on the higher levels of income who do not appear, on the face of it, to be subject to the test of public interest. He can say with justification perhaps that those at the lower end of the economic scale subject to decisions which affect the mass of workers are the ones who are being singled out for bringing in the question of public interest. That may appear to be so but it is not as much so as he thinks it is. The reason for it is this: In a great deal of legislation, in a great deal of adjudication and judgments made by public service boards or bodies other than the Commission about which we are talking here, there is an implied public interest to be considered. There is not only one public interest as can be readily seen. The public interest would not be well served if university teachers, for example, were paid a wage or salary which was not comparable with that which they could get overseas because if that situation applied we would very likely find the sort of migration which created the much talked about brain drain from the United Kingdom where people qualified to do a particular job were going somewhere else because they were offered competitive salaries on an international basis. So there are other checks and balances in other areas, particularly where they impinge on international situations, that one does not find at this level because of the lack of competitiveness. 
I was nearly howled down last week, if I may say so, because I pointed out the simple fact that the sort of judgments we are talking about tonight usually affect hundreds of thousands of wage earners and, in that sense, are more important. These judgments, even though the per capita amount granted may be less than honourable members opposite would like to see - and members of this side would like to see - have an aggregate effect that is of considerable proportions. If we turn to some other area of the economy, to wage earners in occupations where a few hundred or a few thousand are involved, such as our arbitration commissioners, and give a substantial increase, the total effect on the economy is very small. Honourable members opposite were not prepared to accept that as realism last week, but this in fact is what dictates the situation. Competitive ability obviously is different at different levels and whether members opposite want that to be so or not with all their talk of equality in such areas as education the situation will not change for their saying so. It must be recognised on the question of public interest per se that this is so. I agree, and I would be stupid to do otherwise, that this is not an easy area to define. But the fact is that the honourable members opposite do not want to define anything they can possibly leave aside. We saw this last week in relation to clause 8 when members opposite were not prepared to recognise that some people would be in good community standing. They asked what that meant and sought examples. Members of the Opposition want to run away from this sort of thing. I submit that it is possible in a particular context, at a particular time and in a certain judgment to define what is the public interest. I have alluded, as have the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Street)  and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  to judgments which could be made which would be contrary to the public interest. Even though it may be a little galling I admit this, because some other areas of operation apparently are not subject to public interest. Because the words are not written in, it does not mean that the public interest is not being taken into account. 
I would agree that there is plenty of argument to say that public interest per se should be looked to in other matters but there is no need to get absolutely wild about the situation when the public interest is referred to specifically in this case. In fact if one thinks about any degree of distance from this area at all, a good deal of our social legislation, if not the whole lot, implies public interest. You are not allowed to knock people off in the street because it is contrary to the public interest. You are not allowed to have a violent demonstration insofar as people can control you because it is not in the public interest. The fact that the particular forms of legislation do not use the words 'in the public interest' does not mean that the public interest is not being served by the legislation. I believe that these things should be taken on board when in fact honourable members opposite find themselves as adamantly opposed to this form of words as they appear to bc in this debate now. I believe, in short, that the public interest can be judged in a particular context. It is true that there may be various judgments about it but surely this is what Government, arbitration and all these sorts of things are about - making judgments as to which particular interest should best be served at a particular time. 
Is the Minister representing the Attorney-General aware of growing community concern, even within the legal fraternity, over the high cost of divorce and the punitive nature of its provisions? Is he aware of the financial burden characteristically placed on the male party in a broken marriage and which falls with particular severity on the working man who may be required to pay more than half his weekly wage, even to a wife who has deserted him? What steps is the Commonwealth taking to introduce some elements of justice and reason to this backward area of our social milieu? 
-Quite frankly, I cannot understand the proposition put forward by the previous 3 or 4 honourable members who have spoken. If I may say so with the utmost respect, I think that they have only aired their ignorance in respect of governing bodies of institutes, universities or colleges of this kind. The suggestion that one would try to have represented on such a governing body every possible area of academic expertise in the field is nothing short of ludicrous. No university council, no college of advanced education and no research institute of this kind attempts to do that in a governing body. 
A reasonable number is being provided. I have no more idea than honourable members opposite what a correct number to govern and to administer such an institute would be. Should it be 3, 5, 7, 9 or 11? The council will take its advice on matters of academic interest from the people who in fact are employed to take an interest in matters of that type. Quite frankly, I think that just about all of the remarks which have been made in the last IS minutes are totally null and void in any sensible academic respect. Therefore, a non-issue is involved here. It may be that 7 people do a job better than 5 people. The good old committee of one member principle, in any sort of logic, probably would run here. But we are not talking about a vice-chancellor. We are talking about a chairman plus certain other members. 
Really, there is just no validity whatsoever in the proposition that in respect of a body such as this an attempt should be made to have a supposedly wide ranging area of academia involved in marine science. I would point out only that marine science despite its apparent breadth is only in its infancy compared with most other comparable fields of academic interest. In fact, I presume that the reason why a relatively small number is proposed here instead of the usual involvement of 20, 30 or so people is a recognition of that fact. Quite clearly, as the field will develop and the institute may well grow in 10 years or 20 years time it would be possible to make provision for a larger governing body. 
We are not providing at this stage for representatives from hither and thither to represent the government here, another institution there and an education department somewhere else, as is the usual procedure with respect to a fairly highly developed institute with numerous avenues of academic interest with respect to which some attempt is made to make the size of the governing body comparable with that of the institute. There is no magical number here. Quite frankly I believe that we are wasting time in discussing whether 5 members or 7 members is the appropriate number of members for this body. There is no argument that can be put forward by anyone to show that one number is more magical than another. 
Once again I find myself unable to disagree with quite a deal of what the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  has said, except perhaps in one respect. One might well take this opportunity to make some remarks which perhaps fall just outside the content of the Bill which as the honourable member has rightly said deals only with quite minor matters although they are of sufficient consequence to the institutions involved. As the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  pointed out in his second reading speech, the main purpose of this Bill is to make corresponding supplementary grants  Jot  colleges of advanced education in the States in respects of costs arising from exceptional increases in non-academic salaries and wages. The grants correspond with those already passed by this House with respect to universities. Of course, that in itself is something of a problem which in the future has to be solved by the governing bodies of these institutions and, basically speaking, by the Government. 
The problem is one of university or, as in this case, colleges of advanced education boards or councils providing in advance for wage increases which, in the past at least, they have not been able to foresee with as much success as they have been able to foretell the likely moves in academic salaries and salaries which are closely tied to academic salaries. Of course, when the total budgets of these institutions come into the melting pot these non-academic salaries and wages are important because in these institutions and many others like them the people who are there to service, in one way or another, the people who carry out the central functions of the colleges or universities, namely teaching and research, are more numerous than the people carrying out the central functions. 
I would like to take this opportunity to make a few remarks. As I said earlier, the honourable member for Fremantle very briefly made some quite useful comments, and I look forward to the time when he will develop those somewhat more fully. For example, he mentions his belief that there should be a considerable development of external or part-time studies in most tertiary institutions, and other proposals of this kind. He further said that colleges of advanced education should not be allowed to develop the universities' shortcomings. He did not spend much time elaborating that, but I think I understand what he is talking about, as do some other members. He talked about relationships within universities being impersonal and suggested that this should be avoided in the case of colleges of advanced education. I agree with that insofar as it applies, but I do not want to develop that line of thinking now. What I do want to say is that we are still unclear as to the true function of colleges of advanced education as distinct from the function of universities in particular and any other tertiary institutions that happen to be around in small numbers. Even though there was a reasonable amount of soul searching some years ago when the proposal to establish colleges of advanced education first came forward, we have not yet developed a philosophy on the matters involved to the degree which they deserve. We have now a body for the administration of the whole area of colleges of advanced education. It was set up recently as a counterpart of the Australian Universities Commission, and I believe that so far it has carried out its functions quite reasonably and will continue to do so. 
I would like to put it on record, even if it has been done before - I think it has - that there is a fundamental problem of discretion, discrimination and philosophy of education concerning these 2 groups of tertiary institutions - the colleges of advanced education and the universities. The problem fundamentally is that we have to define the proper function of colleges of advanced education, albeit in relation to the existing universities. It cannot be done in vacuo. We have to define that function and avoid as far as possible the implications of snob value, exclusivism and any other matter of that kind which seems to operate differentially, in the public or private mind, as between different types of tertiary institutions. It is not good enough to say, as has been said before and questioned afterwards, that colleges of advanced education stand for applied courses and applied fields of interest, and that universities stand for the theoretical and even abstract pursuits and that in the main they are not there for the purpose of application of knowledge gained and methods devised. I think at the broadest level that is not too questionable, but one does not have to go very far deeper than that to find that there is a bit of a problem in further defining whether that is real or not or whether that distinction is sufficient. 
Of course, the problem is vexed by the fact, as has been said many times in the past here and overseas, that, for example, the faculty of medicine at the university was in on the ground floor. It was one of  2  or  3  faculties to be founded in the universities of the world, and if anything is applied it is medicine. So if the faculty of medicine has been in the universities from the word go, why are we talking about universities being essentially theoretical institutions dealing with concepts, abstract matters and research, whereas we want colleges of advanced education to be dealing with hard and fast, down to earth applied knowledge? We have to allow for the fact that there are exceptions to prove the rule, but I would still bold that in the main the generality is true. But our problem here is that we want to pretend that colleges of advanced education are, in effect, universities under another name. I know that there are other and probably better ways of expressing that, but, because of the social content of this question, we are not really prepared to face up to the fact that the cause of education in Australia is not,  1  think, properly served or best served by trying to duplicate universities in the colleges of advanced education. 
What we have to realise, and realise very thoroughly to a greater degree than I believe has so far been realised, is that we have the established universities fulfilling a fairly well recognised function which I do not need to go into again and we have institutions developing now in considerable numbers and at a considerable rate of expenditure which should be in as many respects as possible, to my way of thinking, complementary to universities, not duplicates of the functions of universities. I could be wrong, and doubtless people will question this, but to me that does imply a very considerable accent on applied courses which have almost immediate community application; in other words, courses in the field of business tuition, business administration, accountancy, journalism and so on. Those things have been recognised, but I do not believe that at the philosophical base, as it were, they have been sufficiently recognised, nor do I believe that a thorough going policy is being applied to all of those colleges. At the same time I recognise that there is quite a range of differential among the individual representatives under that fairly broad title now of colleges of advanced education. 
But there are some things which, as far as I know, are not being done in colleges of advanced education which I think could be done. There may be individual instances, of which I do not know, which would prove me wrong, but certainly some of the colleges of advanced education are not, for example, making the same sort of provision for what is usually known as provisional matriculation, as has long been done at some of the universities, if not at all of them. What I mean by this, in some elaboration, is that there are coming through our high school system students who are reasonably able. I might say parenthetically that  1  am not in any sense advocating any lowering of standards; I am trying to catch the people who get outside the higher educational net and who may, if persevered with a little longer, be brought back into the net for their own and the community's good. But generally speaking, colleges of advanced education are not allowing provisional matriculation for people, for example, who have just failed matriculation or the equivalent examination. That means that they go out into the community searching for other jobs - it might be nursing or clerking or what have you. 
But there is certainly evidence to show that some of these people who have just missed out at that formal level of testing would, if persevered with and given a little chance to mature - and this is true of the universities, and it should be true of the colleges of advanced education - prove their worth and develop their particular attributes and abilities, as I said earlier, to the betterment of themselves and the community. I look forward to that being worked not in the sense that standards are dropped but in the sense that we are searching for every possible means to get people into the system which is developing. It seems to me that in the sense that we are developing in colleges of advanced eduction a very considerable system as a complement, if that is what it is, to the university situation, then we should ensure that there is capacity, by which I mean capacity for places in those institutions so that people can do what I am talking about. 
To illustrate the point, since 1967, which was the time of the effective advent of colleges of advanced education, the proportion of the 17 to 22 year old age group in those institutions has risen from 2.2 per cent in 1967 to 3.4 per cent in 1971. The comparable figures for universities in the period 1961-71 show an increase from 6.5 per cent to 9.4 per cent in the 17 to 22 year old age group. So it is pretty clear that in those 4 short years from 1967 to 1971, colleges of advanced education have taken in a proportion of the relevant population which already reaches one-third or thereabouts of the university intake. So we are not either in that sense or in the sense of expenditure, as is well known to honourable members, talking unrealistically; we are dealing with a considerable area of higher education, and I should like to see us make the best possible use of that particular field. 
The honourable member for Fremantle referred to the fact that there are changes in the nomenclature of some of the institutions listed in the Bill. That is so, and I do not take any particular offence at that. But I should just like to mention one point in relation to that matter which I hope bears on what I have been saying. There are illustrations around the world where changes in name are supposed to represent changes in function or in level. I am not sure whether I have the name precisely right, but I recall some years ago visiting what had been the Illinois State Normal College, *Normal' relating to teaching functions. It became, as it were, by administrative decree the Illinois State College. The word 'Normal' was dropped. Then oy a further decree and, as I understand it, without any change being made in the structure of the courses or anything else, it became the Illinois University, or it might even have become the Illinois State University. In other words, it progressed from being a designated teachers college to a general tertiary college to a university by changes of name. 
That need only be accompanied by changing the degrees or changing diplomas to degrees, or what have you. As we know, this is an area of some commentary .in relation to our colleges of advanced education which have widely adopted degreegiving practices - giving degrees as degrees, not just an award of some other nomenclature. So I think that we ought to keep a weather eye on that, so that a change in name, if it implies changes in the academic function or academic standards, will be accompanied by changes in standards and not merely by words on paper in the titular descriptive sense. 
I do not want to continue at any greater length on this matter. As I designated earlier, this is essentially a question of catching up with salary problems in these institutions. They are potentially flourishing institutions. Some of them are flourishing, and some are languishing slightly in the sense that building programmes are behind. This is perhaps somewhat unusual in most areas of construction these days. As we know, these institutions in some places have been trying to catch up. The amount of money involved here is relatively small. On the other hand, the amount of money involved in the total development of colleges of advanced education is quite considerable; it is in excess of $100m at the present time. As the honourable member for Fremantle said, we are dealing with a very considerable field of major educational interest. I hope that my plea for the utmost possible definition - I hope in the optimum sense - of the function of these bodies as distinct from universities in particular may be heeded and pursued. I believe that it is and it will be, but I am not yet satisfied that we know precisely where we are going in this field, and I think there is every reason to find that out as soon as possible. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and Science. Is the honourable gentleman aware that the Australian Education Council has been discussing the Senate Committee report on teacher education? Can he say how the report has been received? 
I take the point of the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  In a general sense it is well made. At the same time, while it is sensible to look to the future, it is true that a general inquiry is proceeding into repatriation benefits, the future repatriation structure, and all that area of social provision. It is also fair to say that part of the hospital concerned, which is in the middle of my electorate, is far from reaching in structural condition the standards acceptable these days in public hospitals of any kind. As far as I can remove myself from the issue in an impartial sense, I find it entirely appropriate that a couple of million dollars is to be spent on a new part of the total complex on this site. 
To return to the point made by the honourable member for Hughes, the site still has considerable room left for expansion without undue pressure being placed on the land area, in contradistinction to the city block which houses the Royal Hobart Hospital. That site has housed Hobart's general hospital since the early 1800s, a few years after the beginning of settlement. It is now almost totally covered with buildings, to the point where it may well be quite dimcult in future, even though it may be desirable as a matter of general principle, in practice to house a future repatriation hospital or part of it. 
I have made that comment only because I think it is of consequence to the people of Hobart and in particular to those people housed in the present repatriation hospital there. I am sure that the Minister ibr Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  will bear that equally in mind when the matter is in front of him.  do not think it is in issue at the moment because the matter has been approved and appears likely to go further by any normal standards of procedure. Nevertheless, I think the point made by the honourable member for Hughes sounds quite a cautionary note for future operation in this policy area. But as far as the particular structure is concerned I believe that its construction is entirely deserved and timely. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
It is not my habit to talk on taxation matters but I want to say just a few words about the one of these 3 cognate measures which has been most talked about tonight, in particular by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and also by my colleague, the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  I do not want to talk at any length, but I think that one should say at least this much: This is a commendable move in Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) 1972, relating to section 26 (a) of the Income Tax and Social Services Contribution Assessment Act, in so far as it seeks to define - and I hope successfully - with somewhat greater precision an area that has been so much left to the Commissioner of Taxation to make judgments about. 
One of the problems in this country about taxation decision-making, I think, is that there are in fact many areas of discretion available which could, on the whole, be somewhat more closely curtailed in order to reduce the discretion and to make it a little more straightforward in the minds of the people who are being taxed. By the same token, I think it might well be something for the Taxation Office to bear in mind as time goes on that some of these things might be, as it were, advertised in advance in the form of published guidelines, which are none too readily available, except on application by particularly interested groups or people. 
I must not stray too far from the matter in hand. What I want to say is that I think there is often a considerable underestimate - and I doubt that anybody really knows the true figures - probably by the public at large, and certainly by honourable members opposite, of the extent to which small trading in shares is a function of the general populace. I think it can readily be said that the average working man does not have much truck with share dealings, although there would be exceptions to that. However, certainly in the vast area of the middle class, there is a great deal more smalltime investing in shares than is generally believed. One has to look only at the structure of certain companies, which need not be named at this stage - although there are many examples - to see that quite substantial proportions of their total capital are found to be in the hands of relatively large numbers of small shareholders as compared with the small number of large shareholders. It is the fact in numerous instances and, therefore, we are not talking here necessarily about the privileged or the affluent. 
In that sense, it seems to me very wise to define the situation, in terms of this Bill, in respect of 18 months of share ownership. Under that period of ownership the shareholding may be suspect, as it were, in terms of its being sold for possible profit. If the shares have been owned for longer than 18 months, then in the terms of this Bill it is concluded that unless they are an adjunct to business, incidental to the carrying on of business, or unless they are declared to be held for the purpose of profit-making by sale, then the ownership makes the shares not normally subject to taxation if any profit is made, nor to the reverse if a loss is incurred. That seems to me to be a good thing and. something that should, and I hope will, encourage the small shareholder to take up small parcels of good, bad, blue chip, or whatever sorts of shares are on offer on the stock exchanges of this country. 
Considerable mention has been made in the course of the last few speeches of matters such as tax avoidance, tax evasion and the differences between the two. That does not deserve further airing at this stage, except that as we are touching on the area of capital gains as distinct from shares held for dividend earning, in the same way as one might hope to get a continuing return or a recurring return from any other sort of investment, and seeing that we are talking about something which is in the field of capital gains, I think it might well be the place to register my current doubts about other areas of taxation relief which I believe have a certain anachronistic flavour about them these days. It is nothing new to say it, I know, but it worries me somewhat that at the present time at least some people who are investing in rural development probably have the sole purpose of tax avoidance in the legal sense, and are in fact carrying on an operation which is no longer of the same benefit, if indeed it is of any benefit, to the country as it was at the time that the provision was made. I do not intend to dilate upon that further. However, I think it is worth making the point in relation to this discussion about capital gains or not, according to the provisions of the Bill. 
I The honourable member for Angas talked about section 26(a) as having been a vexed question in South Australia. I cannot admit to the same degree of problem having arisen, at least to my notice, in my own State of Tasmania. It may well be that certain individuals find vexation of the same kind as expressed by the honourable member for Angas. However, I think that, whatever the case there, in the logic of the matter if not in practice, he is right in saying that the previous provisions, until the introduction of this Bill, have in fact provided doubts for the man who is a small and certainly unpractised, unprofessional investor, and in that sense also have constituted something of a physical barrier to investment. 
As this is, to my mind, a good thing - that is to say, that the small investor, as distinct from the highly affluent or professional investor, should be encouraged to take a stake in the community where he might find it not only for his good but also for the good of the community - I believe that the eradication of that assumed barrier and the removal of those apparent doubts is in the best interests of the country. 
The only other point I make - it may be a somewhat amateurish observation - is that it seems to me that the very considerable focus of my friends on the other side of the chamber on profits, whether large or small, but particularly large, and on high incomes in particular, whether they be of conciliation commissioners or anybody else and however deserved or undeserved they might be - I think they are often undeserved - is sometimes ill placed. If I were somewhat to the left of this side of the chamber - certainly, if I were on the other side of the chamber - I would take a much greater interest in the means by which taxation can be a great leveller. The honourable member tor Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and other honourable members well know this. It seems to me that that could be a function of taxation, in the proper sense, which would still allow people who believe that they are doing a highly valuable job in the community to take the level of income they receive and to derive whatever benefit they do from the status accruing from that job, and yet to be kept within reasonable bounds in relation to the general level of the population m their net incomes. That, to me, seems to be an area deserving of considerable focus. 
I know that people are not unaware of this point, but I think it is deserving of more focus in relation to the other side of the question than in fact it receives. I do not know whether honourable members opposite will choose to take my advice on that matter. I presume that almost certainly they will not. However, that strikes me as being the area in which, if we wanted to do it this way, people could be brought down to something nearer a common level and yet be allowed to exercise their particular attributes and, might I say, energies, because the question of hours worked and energy input is something which is hardly irrelevant to this aspect. It is not just a question of the level of job that is being operated. I believe that that is not entirely irrelevant to this whole question of taxation. I will not take up the time of the House further by digressing at any greater length from the immediate provisions of this Bill in relation to section 26 (a) of the Act. 
I wish to raise a subject which might, more appropriately, be raised during a grievance debate or a more general debate, but, in the absence of those debates for the time being, I raise it now. This matter concerns shipping in relation to the port of Hobart and the operations of the Australian National Line. There are factors operating which may be said to be both external and internal, but they are, I believe, closely related. In fact, there was an understanding between the Marine Board of Hobart and the Australian National Line some little time ago that there would be 3 return services per month between Sydney and Hobart by the passenger vessel, 'Empress of Australia' and that the terminal to be provided in Hobart for the purposes of the operation of that vessel would be used intensively and would be equipped in certain respects to make that operation better. 
On the basis of this understanding the terminal complex was built at a cost of slightly more than SI. 25m. It is considered that the complex is of a standard equal to that of any in Australia. A rental was charged to the Australian National Line for the special facilities provided and the terminal building and the appurtenances thereto. In order to encourage increased use of the terminal a system of rebate on rental became operative and the Line, in fact, stood to benefit from increasing use of the terminal. The failure of the ANL to use this $ 1.25m terminal, even to approximate capacity, can be gauged from a number of factors. Prior to the withdrawal of the 'Searoad' cargo services a ship called at the terminal approximately once a week, thereby using the facilities one or perhaps 2 days out of 7. The relative tonnage of cargo handled at the port during the 3 years preceding this rates agreement with the ANL compared very unfavourbly with tonnages of cargo handled over the Seaway terminal by the Union Steamship Company. With the permission of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  to whom I have referred this matter, I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a 4-line table. 
A number of queries have been raised about the Bill before us, and some of them, 1 think, were properly raised. But I find myself in disagreement with some of the views expressed both by my colleague the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  and by honourable members opposite. Let me take, first of all, the query concerning the base year expenditure which is being modified from a single base year to 3 consecutive years in a rolling fashion. That seems to me, on the face of it and as far as I can see below the surface, a sensible proposition. In the economic field it is well known that to take a single base year may be very misleading and may bring about undesirable effects for the person or company or organisation being judged on that single base year. So to me it is entirely constructive that we should convert one base year into 3 and average out the situation for those 3 years. 
It is true that it implies continuing expenditure by the company under con sideration; that is to say, if it drops out at some stage of the proceedings it is likely to damage its capacity to attract further grants for its industrial research. But that seems to be fair enough because, as has already been stated, the purpose of this Bill is to continue or better to provide incentive for industrial firms in Australia to conduct research and development - known in brief as R and D. Whatever qualifications or hesitations or problems confront the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures or any other organisation of that kind in respect of this proposition, 1 do not yet see why they should fear it. 
Another point which has been made on a number of occasions, particularly by honourable members opposite, is the one which was put by the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart),  that the rich get richer and the poor get poorer. That proposition deserves cautious examination whereever it might be advanced. But in this field I think that we might well say that there is a prima facie case for bigger firms to attract bigger grants and for smaller firms to attracts smaller grants, for the simple reason that the large industrial firm or corporation is quite clearly well known, throughout the Western world at least, to have the kind of operation which can keep going in a continuous fashion a research team or even teams which improve not only its own product but sometimes also incidentally somebody else's product. 
While it may be the exception to the situation, let me take one case of which I happen to know. The firm happens to be one of those which attracts rather larger grants than most others. I refer to the Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Ltd. Over the 4 year period 1967-1968 to 1970-71, it received more than $300,000 in research and development grants. This is a firm, one of the few firms of which I know - there may be others - which over a period of years has conducted in the field of solid state physics and related fields of which I know a little, what might be regarded as pure research. I happen to know the person who ran - probably still runs - this firm's research team. In fact, he is a part time academic. He is one of those people, of whom there are few in Australia - in contradistinction to America and other countries-who move from the field of industry to the academic field and back in regular fashion. In fact he bestrides the two. 
This is a firm which conducts research and pays for research, on the basis that something decent may come out of it. It is true that some of the research will help that firm in its commercial enterprise in due course, but the research, in the past at least, has not been conducted purely because it can be seen to have a direct application to the firm's own operations. Even if it is exceptional, that is the sort of thing which has not been identified by honourable members who have spoken on this subject and which, on the contrary, tends to be suspected by them as not existing. I take it that to them that firm would represent one of the bigger operators, which do not need to be supported by this Government. 
Because I must not speak for too long, on the instructions of my Whip, let me make a pertinent comment on the difficulties that beset us in this field. This does, in part, touch on what honourable members opposite have said, but it certainly shows that the situation is a little more complex of assessment than I think they suggest. I shall quote a paragraph or two from a book entitled 'Science, Technology and the Australian Economy' by D. M. Lamberton, published in 1970. He stated: 
The Government expressed the hope that the positive stimulus of the grants will reach eligible firms of all sizes. 
He was referring to a hope expressed in a second reading speech in 1967. He continued: 
But there is good reason to think that an effective industrial research and development programme needs to be of some minimum size. This threshold' level deterrent, combined with lack of information, lack of adequate records, and, more importantly, the difficulty of conducting research and development as a separate department, may inhibit many firms from entering upon the expensive activity of research and development. It seems likely that the industrial research and development activity of Australian firms is highly concentrated, as is the case in the United States. It also seems likely that smaller firms will be reluctant to research in areas where large firms have already established 'research leadership'. In such circumstances the dominant firms may tend to devote their research efforts to the maintenance of established oligopolistic or monopolistic positions. Their research laboratories may become major sources of minor innovations and minor sources of major innovations. In a situation like this, there is a danger that grants will become supplements to quasi-monopoly incomes. 
That is true. The article continues: 
Nor does there seem to be adequate safeguards against the inefficient use of research and development funds including the grants made under the Act. The grants might encourage firms to engage in research and development even though they lack the capacity to do so. 
And so it goes on. It does raise some of the problems. There is probably a threshold below which it may be inefficient, possibly even totally wasteful, to supply moneys for the purposes of research. I point that out bearing in mind that it is certainly not the intention of the Government to prevent small companies from profiting by the benefits of this Act. As the Minister pointed out in his second reading speech, an official survey of some 13,000 companies in machinery and manufacturing fields in Australia recently received only 10 per cent - 1,320  -  replies and, in fact, I think the number of firms currently profiting by this legislation is something like 800 out of the total of 13,000 or so which might be eligible. So it would appear to be somewhat specious reasoning or at least that the fear is misplaced that there are people being by-passed because they are too small. There is, in fact, no lower limit. Firms merely have to provide evidence of compatability with certain criteria. 
I mention the point raised by the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  who said that there may be brilliant but unqualified people in smaller industries. I agree that that may be so but, as I think has been said on other occasions, it is likely to be a good deal less so than it was in the past, given the development of our university education programmes. The fact that there have been people who were not qualified to some basic level in science and technology does not mean that they would be employed by firms these days. It is unlikely these days that the brilliant scientific mind as yet untrained will suddenly appear in a small firm which otherwise has been unable to show itself any sort of a competitor for these larger people in a similar field. I leave the matter at that, although a good deal more could be touched on here because I believe it is an important field. Just as research is important to universities and their teachers so research is basic to the development of industry. The fact that we have only had secondary industry of any consequence since the Second World War is part of the explanation for Australia being a little bit laggard in this field. I believe, taking aboard certain of the qualifications and hesitations of certain members who have already spoken in this debate, that in quite specific terms this Bill is designed, as it reads, to foster the initiative in firms large and small across Australia towards further research in their own interests and ultimately, of course, in the interests of the economy at large. 
Is the Minister for Labour and National Service aware of the impending study by the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners to find what mental harm may be caused to young children deposited in child minding centres and thereby repeatedly deprived of their mothers' company? Has the suspicion that the deprivation of maternal association for 3 to 5-year old children may give rise to later personality defects been a factor in the Government's recent inclination not to increase expenditure in this quarter? What is the position now? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What sum in tax concessions was granted in respect of taxpayers' educational expenses in the latest financial year for which figures are available. 
What proportions of the total related to education at (a) State schools and (b) independent schools. 
How many taxpayers were involved in each category. 
If these figures are not available, what alternative means can be employed to adduce comparable statistics. 
I ask the Minister for Education and Science whether he has seen the critical comments of a professor of education on the Australian education system or systems. In view of their wide ranging and trenchant nature, can the Minister indicate to the House whether the situation is as claimed? 
The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  implied that the only people who are unaware of the apparent value of education for children under the age of 5 years are the people on this side of the House and that those clairvoyants opposite have long been in possession of the educational information which has recently come to hand. It is only in very recent times that it has been shown, to any noticeable effect, that the capacity of the child of under 5 years, or even of 3 years, is greater than it was previously thought to be. In the light of such findings, it is not quite so obvious, as was suggested by the honourable member for Hughes, that this field has been due for great government attention and expenditure in ages long past. Of course, that is only one aspect of the matter. 
In making that point, I do not for a moment disagree with the findings which are now apparent, although I think it is only fair to say that there is a good deal more to be learned about the capacity of children to take on certain kinds of educational and informational matter when they are very young. But certainly it seems to have been shown without doubt that they have a great deal of receptivity of mind and of intellect to take aboard a great deal more than was previously thought to be the case - except for some geniuses here and there who could play the piano at the age of 4 or read dictionaries and do other things of that kind. So we are dealing with a recent phenomenon in educational terms. 
Let me turn to the remarks of the previous 2 speakers. The honourable member for Hughes said that 52 per cent of children eligible to attend pre-schools are living in the full blossom of privilege in the Australian Capital Territory. That is very true. In this field, as in many other fields, one can hardly disagree that the people of the Australian Capital Territory are better served than those in some other areas of the country. But surely that proves the point which the honourable member for Hughes was trying to disprove, that is, that in the Australian Capital Territory, which is the immediate concern of the Commonwealth Government, the level of pre-school education is notably, even remarkably, higher than that in most other areas of the country. Surely it also proves that it was within the province of the State governments, if they knew about the educational need, to introduce equally high levels of pre-school education if that was their order of priorities. 
I do not think the fact that the Commonwealth Government has from 1968 identified this particular area of need can be said to show that necessarily we should have particularised in respect of the States at an earlier stage, even if the knowledge were available. I would regard the comments of both the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  and the honourable member for Hughes about its not being adequate to leave the initiative to the States and so on as a very nice expression of what might be, but the States are in fact predominantly responsible for the education of children at that age. It is well known to honourable members opposite and to the public that the Commonwealth entered the field of education as a whole - it is, as you know,  Mr Speaker,  a vast field - substantially at the higher levels of education, notably at the tertiary level, where the educating was essentially carried out by autonomous or semi-autonomous institutions from univer sities down and where it was much easier to involve the Commonwealth in considerable capital expenditure without transgressing the rights of the States and their education departments. 
Clearly in that sense education of children at the ages below 6 - mostly 3 to 5 years of age - is at the lowest level, in terms of age and chronology, of the education process. It may be also the most fundamental level at which we establish recognition, knowledge and so on in young people. Again we do not deny that. But in the order of things as they have been carried out, with the intrusion of the Commonwealth into the field of education, it is understandable that this has been a somewhat languishing field. When we coupled that with the real knowledge of the importance or apparent importance of this level of educational possibility and capacity in children, I do not really believe that the argument, that only the Commonwealth is responsible here, put by the honourable member for Hughes in considerably emotional terms at the outset of his speech, holds a great deal of water. 
There are some other aspects of this matter also. I feel that there was a certain degree of confusion - again on the part of the honourable member for Hughes - about child minding centres and pre-schools. Undertakings made in respect of child minding centres as an adjunct to or even as a consequence of or a response to an increasing proportion of females in the work force are not the same as the establishment of or the responsibility to establish pre-school education on the part of the Commonwealth. One might even ask just how necessary is the one as distinct from the other. I draw attention to the fact that there has been a relatively rapid increase in female participation in the work force; I think we have reached a level of female participation of around 40 per cent. I do not have the figures at hand, but I do know that the level is considerably higher than it was a few years ago and that it now approaches the levels which have long operated in European and, since long before that, Asian countries where almost entirely predominantly rural occupations are engaged in by both the male and female populations. The response to that is to have somebody other than the mothers to look after the children at these low ages. 
It could easily be argued that to provide pre-schools would be preferable to providing mere minding centres for children of an age who have the capacity to learn. Nevertheless it is interesting to note - perhaps the Opposition does not question it - that no mention has been made in my hearing of the curricula in schools of this kind. I am no expert on children's education at this stage but an analysis of part of the position will reveal a great deal of the curricula, if that is the right word, engaged in pursuits which could largely be carried out in other circumstances were the parents sufficiently interested; that is to say, scissors and paste operations and activities relating to art in one form or another - highly expressive functions that bring out a great deal in the educational and social consciousness of the children. I do not for one moment criticise that. 
We are not talking in terms of highly complex educational processes partly perhaps because we do not know enough about what is needed. We are talking about a great deal of psychological content in the teaching of very young people rather than a complex educational programme which is totally inoperable in a domestic situation. What I am saying is that despite the great works that we may find in pre-schools, a great deal of what is offered, socially and educationally, could well be found in a good home environment between mother and child. 
I have no argument against people doing that if they have the capacity to do so. Nevertheless we should recognise the possibilities - or even the fact - that some people higher up the educational scale prefer to teach their children and have them close to them as much as possible at that early age rather than send them to pre-school. That may be right or it may be wrong but they are certainly exercising a parental preference which is available to parents under this system in contrast to the system in the Soviet Union where a great proportion of females work and State child-minding centres in which there are children in great numbers, are found in profusion. I do not want to ex plore that because in a sense it is irrelevant. We are talking about pre-school education. The basis upon which the Commonwealth came into this field in 1968, whether belatedly or otherwise - I would submit it was within reasonable time - was to provide an Act under which the purchase of land with or without buildings was able to be conducted. Then the planning, erection, alteration and extension of buildings could proceed. The development and preparation of land for buildings and other purposes was also taken in hand as was the installation of various facilities to prepare pre-schools under the auspices of those largely private bodies who were interested in them. 
I do not think anybody is likely to be highly critical of the job that organisations like the Gowrie centres have done in the past but it is worth noting that the Tasmanian Government in this field of operation has long since integrated its pre-school teaching with its educational system at large. It is a matter which I know is understood by the honourable member for Fremantle. This shows that the same opportunity is available to the other States. So whereas Tasmania can take its $220,000 grant and, along with Western Australia, completely expend within the systems which operate in those States within a couple of years of the allocation of that money, the other States, understandably, have difficulties through their private operations and, for various reasons outlined on a previous occasion, are not able to spend their money at such a rate. That is the root cause of this Bill being before us now. It is a means by which to extend the operation of $2.5m in unmatched grants to the end of next year. This seems to me to show a reasonable development on the part of the Commonwealth, as the $2.5m unmatched grants have been partly expended in some States and fully expended in others. In addition the Minister announced today in his considerable speech on education that not only capital grants but recurring costs of preschool teachers colleges will be met by the Commonwealth as from July 1973. Given the relatively short period of time, whatever the demands of the situation, the Commonwealth is getting into the act. 
We find that enrolments in major institutions or systems for the teachers who look after pre-school children have moved in this way. In 1967, the base year, the Nursery School Teachers College in Sydney had 99 enrolments, moving to a capacity of 270 now; the Sydney Kindergarten Teachers College had 127 enrolments, moving to 300 now; the Melbourne Kindergarten Teachers College had 193 enrolments, moving to 450 now; the Brisbane Kindergarten Teachers College had 148 enrolments, moving to 300 now; the Kindergarten Teachers College, Adelaide, had 93 enrolments, moving to 200 now; the Meerilinga Kindergarten Teachers College, Perth, had 66 enrolments, moving to 160 now. The Launceston Teachers College which operates the system for the State Education Department of Tasmania does not have figures available for the first year, because of the integration of the system, but is moving to 70 now. Thus there was a total of 726 enrolments in the 1967 base year and this has moved to 1,265 in 1972 for these 7 institutions or systems. They now have a capacity for enrolment of 1,750 preschool teacher trainees. Therefore we do have something approaching a reasonable situation for those currently to be taught at pre-schools. True, if we were to open the flood gates, as it were, and take in the whole of the eligible population, we would not have sufficient teachers properly trained for the tasks. 
In some States the percentage of persons employed as pre-school teachers with preschool training qualifications specifically is of a high order. For example, in New South Wales in 1971, 92i per cent were trained specifically for the job they were doing. The figure was much lower in Victoria  -  57.3 per cent - but higher in Queensland at 94.5 per cent. In South Australia it was 65.2 per cent and in Western Australia 57.7 per cent. Again, because of the integration there is no percentage figure available for Tasmania. I know that is not the whole story because not all children are accommodated in the appropriate institutions, if in fact all of them will ever be. As honourable members opposite, particularly the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  have pointed out, the ball is at the Parliament's foot, and we must move to a position where a much greater proportion of children, particularly those outside of the Australian Capital Territory, in the age groups of 3 to 5 nota bly, are able to participate, if their parents wish it, in pre-school education in a thorough-going, organised fashion. 
Finally, we recognise - though the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  suggested that we do not - the idealism involved in any educative process, and not least in this area of very young lives and minds who have the capacity not only to be moulded by the influences of their environment but who now it appears have also the mental capacity to be much more influenced by proper teaching than was previously thought to be the case. There is no question or issue between us as to the importance of this field. On the other hand, there is, I think, some issue on the question of whose responsibility it is and how soon it ought to have been thenresponsibility. It is reasonable to say that, having recognised the need and identified an educational area, and having observed that all the States, with the notable exception of Tasmania, had not got into this particular field, the Commonwealth has decided to move. It is moving more rapidly now, though perhaps the rate of progression has not been as great as some people would wish. However, it is clear that once the Commonwealth has accepted a responsibility such as this it is unlikely to let it go. I think the future in this field is a good deal rosier than some people would have us believe. 
It is, however, necessary to identify educational priorities. The Commonwealth educational priorities have not long been in the field of pre-school education. The Commonwealth is recognising its value and its need and is identifying itself with the area. That does not mean that we would not want the States to proceed with all possible expedition, alacrity and interest in this field. It is, of course, within the limits of their general expenditure, educational or otherwise, open to them to do so, if that is the way they see it. Whatever is the Commonwealth responsibility in this field, I do not think it is fair to divorce the States and their education departments from acknowledging their priorities and facing the task which is closest to hand as far as they are concerned and not leaving the whole matter to the Commonwealth to carry out more effectively than hitherto. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr  Bryant) adjourned. 
In directing my question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport I remind him of the intractable problem of Tasmanian shipping services and costs. In view of the understandable reluctance of the Government to introduce freight subsidies for the Tasmanian traffic alone, and recognising that sea carriage accounts for less than half of the total door to door costs, will the Minister give close attention to the development of a rail-ferry service on the lines of the north European models? I point out that such a service would give direct access to the mainland railway system, obviate service disruptions caused by irresponsible unionists and be in line with Commonwealth support for railway developments throughout Australia. 
I believe that I should at the outset compliment the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  for what I regard as a thorough economic revision of the state of play financially in the country. It is one which is welded to responsibility. I think it is clear from what we have seen in the last day or less that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in particular is. to put it mildly, discomforted by the obvious ability of this Budget to deal with some of the matters in society which need remedying. Rumours are being fostered by members of the Opposition - I have heard some in Tasmania - that if this Government is returned at the next election it will bring down a mini-Budget in January or so of next year. I do not really believe that those rumours require very great refutation from me or from anybody else for the simple reason that the past has not shown such action to be necessary. I believe, in view of the record of this Government in bringing down budgets, and in demonstrating financial and managerial responsibility, that no member of the general public will accept that particular proposition. It is not easy to bring down a successful budget. It is almost impossible to do so while at the same time avoiding the cynical and other comments to the effect that a particular Budget is merely for election purposes or is helping some rather than others who may be more needy and so on. I think the question should be asked: What should a budget seek to ensure? 1 suppose basically it should endeavour to provide for the sound economic operation of the society. It has to do that in a world context. What the Leader of the Opposition had to say last night in this House - I except the comments he made outside of it relating to a revaluation of the dollar and so on - has to be seen in a world context. It is at least unsound and perhaps irresponsible to suggest that a budget dealing with largely internal matters can be drafted aside from the pressures that come to bear around the world. It is equally unfair, however, politically sound it might be, not to draw attention to comparative statistics which show that the rate of development and the level of unemployment and other such matters in Australia, while possibly in need of some attention, compare well with those of most other nations in Western society. 
Furthermore, 1 believe that a budget should seek to ensure an individual prosperity that is commensurate with the desire of the individual to do what he or she can towards that end. Again if a comparison were made between the range of prosperity among individuals in most other countries in the world and the range which operates in Australia it would be found that there is a much smaller range in Australia than in most other places. In other words, while it is recognised that some people at the bottom of the economic scale are in need of attention and assistance to a greater degree than those further up the scale, it is true that the 2 ends of the scale are closer together here than they are in most comparable areas. Furthermore, amalgamating, as it were, the desire to make for individual prosperity, clearly a budget must seek to improve community life. 
The Leader of the Opposition has seen fit in the terms of his amendment to criticise this Budget for, to take it in brief, having no national goals. If I had been the Leader of the Opposition I certainly would have based my speech on the Budget on that theme, but I would have spent a lot more time on that matter than he did. Because the Budget substantially deals with financial and economic matters, most of its goals are implicit and most of its goals are continuing developments of what the Government has seen to be the needs of the Australian society for some time now. As the Treasurer pointed out last night, he did not find it necessary in the time available to him to outline a large structural framework of national goals; he merely found it necessary to say what he was doing within that established framework. Of course that does not mean that the Government is not looking at national goals. In fact a series of policy committees, as is known, has been doing just that sort of thing. If the Leader of the Opposition were to look a little bit behind him and a little bit forward to the forthcoming election campaign I think he would see in true measure that the Government is not unaware of the national goals which the Australian community should be attempting to achieve. 
One can clearly identify rows of other things which a budget should seek to ensure, but I believe that the 3 major points I have made, if taken care of satisfactorily, would tend to give any society what it ought to be aiming at. In saying that those things are desirable, I would put against them the things which I believe are not desirable. I do not believe that this or any other budget should be seeking to provide leisure at the expense of productivity, dependence on Government at the expense of individual initiative or any number of elaborations of those particular matters. It is well known that the Liberal-Country Party Government has long since subscribed to individual initiative and free enterprise and that increasingly it is subscribing to the need to assist those people who have little of either of those things. 
Sitting suspended from 5.58 to 8 p.m. 
Before dinner 1 was identifying some of those things which a budget should and should not do. I should like now to say that I believe that the substantial number of provisions made in this piece of legislation are, on the whole excellent. I set aside, if I may, the trebling of the grant to the Australian Conservation Foundation indicating thereby the Government's interest in this field. I set aside the new employment training which is proposed for redundant and unemployed workers. I set aside, if I may, the Si, 323m allocated for defence. 1 set aside an increase in external aid of the order of about $20.2m. 
I turn for a moment to the social provisions of this Budget which I know will interest most honourable members and I have no doubt that most of them will talk about this subject. But when we find increases in Commonwealth expenditure of the order of about $72m, that is to say 20 per cent, in the field of education; when we look at a tapering off of the means test and its eventual abolition which increases the allowable earnings, free of means test, of a single pensioner from SIO to $20 and those of a pensioner couple from $17 to $34.50 we find what J think is truly a constructive policy in the social area. One need hardly elaborate on the obvious advantages of the new nursing home proposals and the domiciliary care. Among other provisions of the Budget I believe these to be at least in part a reflection of the appropriate Government Members' Committee which had views in that area. If I might say so, too, in relation to the means test I do not think I have seen a greater universality of opinion among members on this side of the House and possibly the other side of the House in relation to the eventual removal of the means test. In the field of housing, I think one could hardly elaborate too much upon the simple provisions of an increase in the maximum value of a house from $17,500 to $22,500 for those who qualify for the homes savings grant. It has been somewhat fashionable for honourable members on the other side of the House in recent times to decry the worthwhileness of that provision. I find that nothing could be further from the truth. In talking to young people at their doors and elsewhere 1 find that those who have attempted to save, as this Government wants them to do, to add not only to their own situation but to that of the community at large, are indeed very well served by this governmental provision and it is entirely in train with Liberal Party philosophy that that should continue to be so. 
The field of taxation is, of course, always very much to the fore in relation to budgetary provisions. It was Sheridan who said: 
I would', says Fox, 'a tax devise that shall not fall on me', 'Then tax receipts' Lord  North  replies, 'for those you never see.' 
If I recall correctly, the Leader of the Opposition last year attacked indirect taxes. This year the story is not quite the same. In fact we do not have increases in taxes, indirectly or otherwise, for the most part. We have an overall reduction, not one which is entirely designed to help any particular area of interest or of earnings but one which considerably increases the capacity of the man at the lower end of the scale to retain more of his earned income. It is also, of course, true that this provision has come under a certain amount of criticism. I noticed that my namesake stated in the 'Canberra Times' yesterday, in reference to a table provided by academic workers in the field, that after deductions people at the higher end of the scale with a higher earning capacity tend to benefit rather in reverse to pre-tax deduction provisions. Surely if that is the case that is not surprising. 
It seems to be a fact of life which is difficult for those on the opposite side of this House to take on board or certainly to agree with that if you earn a larger income you in turn pay higher taxes under our social order of things and if you have deductions they tend to be larger. The only way you can obviate that is to make flat rate deductions before tax. It may be a persuasive thing to do in certain fields such as education allowances and I might suggest that this be looked at in the future. But it does not particularly perturb me that because you pay more money you get larger deductions. The plain fact is that if you get more money you pay more tax and therefore your deductions, if not relatively, are absolutely more obvious. In fact, one might ask what does in fact the Austraiian Labor Party want in the name of equal opportunity. I do not think there are many people in this House who do not want to see equal opportunity but I fear, as T feared at the outset of this Parliament, that honourable members on the opposite side of this House too often identify equal opportunity with equality which to me is something very difficult to obtain and has great inherent dangers in any attempt to obtain it. Do they mean, for example, that we should have equal pay for everyone? Do the doctors, or the lawyers such as the Leader of the Opposition, intend to imply that their learned friends shall be paid at labouring rates? Do they mean that we should have differential prices for the richer and1 poorer? How otherwise do they intend to achieve this Utopian - to them - situation? So it does not worry me too much that tax scales after deductions may turn out to have some differentials. The important thing, 1 think, is that tax provisions this time are allowing greater deductions from the income earned in respect of those on the lower scales than for those on higher scales, and that is a move in the direction which I think most people would agree is desirable. 
Let me touch on one other matter because I believe that although it is not included in any degree in the Budget it is entirely relevant to this issue. We have in the field of labour politics and in the field of trade unions in particular the proposition for a 35-hour working week. In a number of statements made by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  - none of which, I think, has been refuted; in fact they have been supported by the Prime Minister and others - it is fairly clear that a 35-hour week across the board would result in an addition of about 9 per cent - and possibly as high as 18 per cent, depending on the circumstances - to unit labour costs whereas in this country long term labour productivity growth has been only of the order of 2.6 per cent. 
We do not have to speculate very widely in this field and in fact that is not the whole story because the 35-hour week sought by some could well cause, instead of 9 per cent, a 12 per cent increase in production costs if we tend to make up diminished productivity and diminished working hours with increased overtime. It could in fact sweep across the board very rapidly although at the onset of this matter within the stevedoring industry it was suggested by  Mr Hawke  and others of the Australian Council of Trade Unions that there would be no real development of flow-on in this area but it might apply selectively. Those who regard the Australian industrial scene with any realism would. 1 think, find it very hard to believe that a flow-on would not be an inevitable and fairly rapid consequence of the initial introduction. From statements in the last 2 or 3 months by unions of one sort or another this appears to be the case. They are foreshadowing or are already pushing for that'. 
I would agree that in the long term and even perhaps the medium term the 35-hour week is inevitable but at a stage where inflation is yet to be beaten, at a stage where unemployment is acknowledged to be worse than in the recent past, this is not the time to be introducing less labour. The only way in which a reduction in labour hours can be offset is by an increase in productivity. If we turn to the example of the 40-hour week back in 1947 and 1948 there is very little to indicate that an increase in productivity will result despite the claims of the various unions and in fact the hopes of the Arbitration and Conciliation Court, as it then was, in that particular matter. At the outset the results indicated that there was roughly speaking, a parity in output per man-hour. There was a great deal of overtime being worked in secondary industry in an attempt to maintain production. Costs rose steeply in industry almost without exception and the 40-hour week back in the late 1940s, owing to an increase in overtime and casual work, meant no additional leisure for many sections of the community despite the fact that the Arbitration Court saw the introduction of the 40-hour week as having as one of its effects an increase in leisure for the average working man. 
Against that one might fairly say that the 40-hour week created a certain new interest in incentive schemes. It did stimulate management to adopt improved methods to increase production and reduce costs. That was a good thing. But overall there was no great boost to the economy. In fact it was almost to the contrary in respect of the introduction of the 40-hour week. Why suppose that the situation would be any different in respect of the 35-hour week when the time span would be compressed and there would be even less chance of productivity increasing for any given manhour within a 35-hour week as distinct from a 40-hour week? If we might become parochial for a moment, to what extent do people think the rises in costs associated with a 35-hour week or any other similar introduction would become a cost component of the Australian National Line shipping service which so plagues Tasmania? Blame may be laid at the door of the Federal Government or elsewhere but the situation would become immeasurably worse if we had to take on the added cost of that sort of operation. 
In my concluding minutes let me say that I listened intently last night to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  He suggested that because the average man pays a higher percentage of his wages in tax than ever before - even if that were right - this was a bad Budget. He went on to identify those sorts of people whom he thought to be still in need of additional Government assistance. The Budget itself identifies all sorts of people who have been greatly assisted. Many of its provisions will raise a substantial proportion of those identified as being in poor circumstances well above any denned poverty line, and I might add that no such defined line reveals that there are 1 million Australians below the line as the Leader of the Opposition said. Even taking Professor Henderson's figures of 5 per cent of the population the total would be considerably less than that. We can draw attention to a number of misrepresentations of that kind which the Leader of the Opposition made in the course of his remarks. It is clear that if the Government is to do more for the people then taxation must be looked to to provide some of the wherewithal. The only other real alternative is to increase productivity. I would like to have more time to elaborate on other matters, but let me conclude by saying that if, in the words of the Leader of the Opposition, this Budget is writ in water' then his apparent understanding of it would indicate to me that as far as he is concerned it is written in invisible ink. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. 1 refer to the tobacco tax introduced in the Tasmanian Budget by the State Treasurer last week. Can the Treasurer inform the Parliament as to the legality or. rather, the constitutionality of such a tax? Would a test of its validity be prejudicial to other sources of Government income, such as a liquor licensing tax? Is this tax. in any event, in accordance with the spirit of Commonwealth-State financial relations? 
by leave- I will be brief in this matter. The remarks of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  have stimulated me to take up some of the related questions devolving from this report by the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory or which seem to him to stem from it. What the honourable member for Reid said was, in the main, quite persuasive in a superficial sense but it is highly important in this area - I do not mean just the area of Canberra but the field of urban development into which the honourable member for Reid branched widely - that we sort the wheat from the chaff. It is a simple matter to make persuasive comments such as: 'Do not let the motor car overrun us. Let us take appropriate action to provide alternative forms of public transport'. Anybody can see the sense of that sort of proposition. 
However, there are certain inconsistencies in these sorts of proposals. For at least 2 years we have heard the honourable member for Reid vaunting Canberra as a model to be reproduced in whatever numbers possible throughout this country. He holds Canberra up as an ideal form of urban development and possibly even as an ideal form of settlement of any kind, and has suggested on many occasions both publicly and in this House that we should reproduce Canberra as quickly as possible and as often as necessary. But that is not what he said to us today. It is true that the honourable member for Reid was referring to a report which dealt with transport, route extensions, parking facilities and things of that kind. Nevertheless, I think the honourable member will need to make up his mind as to whether he really is in love with Canberra as it is or whether he wants something else. When he does that he can tell us which of those 2 things he favours for development by this Government or a Labor government, should it come to power. 
The honourable member should also bear in mind that it is not sufficient in the field of city transport merely to say that we have the monstrous problem of the car and lots of congestion. Usually the honourable member opposite talks in crisis terms. I do not think anybody in Canberra would talk much about a transport crisis, even if they are prepared to do so in Sydney, Melbourne or New York. The honourable member for Reid said that we must implement alternatives in the form of public transport. Surveys have been made, particularly in the United States, to show that, regrettably, not only would people not use alternative forms of transport to the private car, if provided, but also they would have to be paid something like, if I remember rightly, 30c a head per trip to use those forms of public transport. Such is the attraction of the flexibility provided by the private motor car. 
That of course leaves us with the problem or some of the problem about which the honourable member for Reid is happy to talk but it does not leave us with a solution. It is quite clear, as the honourable member touched on, that if we are to do the sorts of things he wants us to do in those more congested urban areas, it will be quite insufficient to provide alternative forms of transport in the form of public transport. It will be necessary to exert considerable restrictions on the private use of the motor car. Of course, that is not the entire issue about which the honourable member for Reid was talking in relation to (he report brought down by the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. 
The honourable member for Reid did east fairly widely about in relation to the bigger cities of Sydney and Melbourne and he even complained that the Commonwealth Government was guilty of poor judgment in the siting of Commonwealth properties there. It is true that the Commonwealth does own areas of land outside its immediate jurisdiction of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. But in those areas the Commonwealth is subject to similar regulations in terms of selection of sites, development of buildings and so on as are private developers and I think it is casting far too general a criticism to suggest that problems to be found in Sydney and Melbourne are in any substantial way the business of this Government. 
One of the biggest problems we face in developing urban policy, which this Government has done and will be seen to do, is that we must work not only with the States but also with their dominant capita! cities. In one sense it is a national problem. Nobody would be more aware of that than Government supporters and Ministers of the Government. However, it is not just a simple matter - certainly in terms of the philosophy of this Government - of turning to Sydney and Melbourne and saying: Right, chaps, we do not quite like the way you are going there. We are stepping in and we are taking over'. Even if the Australian Labor Party is prepared to centralise its functions to that extent - I think it is - that is not the philosophy of this Government. This still leaves us with certain developing areas, notably Sydney and Melbourne, where measures have to be taken. 
Measures, some of them indirect, have already been taken but, in terms of making any significant interruption to the general rate of increase of urban development in those cities, it is clear that more will have to be done. In saying this I pay passing tribute to the honourable member for Reid and his leader  (Mr Whitlam)  for having drawn attention from time to time to some of these problems. But they are not the only ones who happen to be au fait with the situation. I think that if they would make their judgment a little more balanced they would drop a few of the emotive terms like 'crises' and just look at the problem and ways of solving it. It is not an easy problem to solve. It involves at the absolutely basic level the interrelationships between the Commonwealth and the States and, to some extent, local government, and it requires a great deal more in terms of solution of the problem of a restriction of public movement and private movement than has yet been proposed in any thoroughgoing form by the honourable member for Reid and others. It is one thing to identify a problem; it is another thing to turn it into a crisis verbally; it is another thing to get a balance; and it is a further thing to solve the problem. I do not want to speak at length and intrude on the good graces of the House, but I do believe that somebody needs to draw attention to the fact that the situation is a complex one and is not quite so easy of solution, except by the most highly centralised methods, as the honourable member for Reid particularly would on occasion have us believe. 
I preface my question to the Prime Minister by reminding the right honourable gentleman that nearly  6  months ago he received representations from the Private Secretaries Association seeking a review of the basis on which payment is made for overtime worked by private secretaries. I ask the Prime Minister whether he has yet been able to respond to its claim that private secretaries should be remunerated on an hourly basis for overtime worked as are all other members of ministerial staff. If not, when does he expect to be able to reply? Finally, in view of the particularly long hours which are worked by private secretaries and the dedicated service given by these officers to members on both sides of the Parliament, will he give his personal support to their claim in an effort to remedy an obvious inequity? 
The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster),  in his usual gentle persuasive style, has indicated to us how thoroughly in favour of this measure he is. I had the pleasure of hearing only the last part of his speech. Prior to that I had been giving an interview for an hour on overseas aid. I found very little of what I heard the honourable member for Sturt say to be of any direct relevance to this Bill. I hardly think I need remind the House that we are discussing an increase in the homes savings grant that is available essentially to young people. I do not really think that any member of this House, despite all the fulminations of those opposite, really believes that this is not a helpful measure. At its base is the intention, identified by the Minister for Mousing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  in his second reading speech, to encourage young people to save over a period of years for a home of their own when they marry by the offer of a tax-free grant to supplement their savings. That is, as honourable members opposite will know, the crux of the matter. The formula is that for every S3 they save up to certain limits people under a certain age will receive $1 from the Commonwealth. What better incentive could one ask for young people to save for a specific, constructive purpose, in both the physical and the mental sense? 1 have heard in the last year or so a number of declamatory statements from honourable members opposite concerning the alleged inefficacy, uselessness, inadequacy and so on of the legislation before the present modification. However, what they had to say, like much of what they have had to say today, is certainly quite contrary to my experience. In fact, in the last few weeks I have made a point of going round the doors of young people in new sub-divisions in my home city of Hobart to find out, primarily, how they were feeling politically and, incidentally, what they thought of the home savings grant. There is no question whatsoever as to what they think of the home savings grant. Possibly the majority - nudging that at least - of the people to whom I spoke in these identifiably new areas were in receipt of the homes savings grant. They were aware of it; they were using it; and, if I may say so, they were building houses of admirable quality - in fact remarkable quality in some cases - within the then limit of $17,500 of the homes savings grant. The elevation of that limit to $22,500 will, I am sure, produce even more striking structures, using new materials such as various improved forms of Besser blocks and that sort of thing. Concrete blocks are much more attractive now than they were once. Young people are indeed producing excellent homes of a quality which people of my age and older would certainly envy as a first home. To me this is in great contrast to the sort of things we have been bearing far and wide from the Opposition side of the House today. Of course, not all the problems are removed. 
I would be interested in obtaining a little more information as to the particular kind of house that is being purchased or built with the funds saved and supplemented by this legislation and the particular kind of location on which it is built. That information is not available from the Department of Housing at the present time in the detail that I would like to see. I will explain in a moment why I would like to have more information. In the meantime, I would like your permission,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and that of the House to incorporate in Hansard a small table relating to my remarks. I have consulted with the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  who has now left the chamber, and received his approval. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Corbett)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="080131197209206_50_0.jpg"></graphic>

The table indicates the number of houses, flats or home units which were purchased as standing dwellings as distinct from those being built under contract or owner built. It shows that in 1970-71, just over one-third of the homes to which the homes savings grant applied were being built under contract or by the owner. Of roughly 36,000 houses in total a little under 13,000 were in that category. The remainder were, I presume, already standing. But that is as far as the detail goes. We do not know from that the age of a dwelling, whether it was a standing structure in a relatively inner area or whether it was a fairly new house already built, speculatively or otherwise, on the outskirts of some city area. For the reason which I will now mention, I think it would be useful if we were to have this information. I say so not least in relation to the 
It is a very decided contradiction in terms. I think the honourable member for Reid will have to get to some sort of an understanding with himself on this matter lest he fall by the wayside of his own declamatory remarks on it. 
The problem remains whether we can say that this incentive to save and build or buy is going to work in conjunction with our views in relation to the growth of established cities. I ask: Are we in fact, by this means, acknowledgedly helping the people involved and doing what most people of any traditional frame of mind would believe to be an admirable thing, that is, encouraging saving and its constructive use? At the same time are we encouraging people to move to the periphery and contribute more easily to certain growth problems of development that are notable in metropolitan areas which we might in other terms have to turn around and try to solve or diminish? This matter lies in the policy area and needs firmly to be taken on board by the Minister's Department and by any member of this House who cares to interest himself in the subject. 
I cannot agree with the proposition put forward by ihe honourable member for 
We have tomake sure that the situation does not worsen. To that end legislation such as we are now discussing is intro duced to make it increasingly possible for young people to act constructively towards home ownership. That is what this Bill is all about. It would be stupid to deny that rising land values constitute a problem. Land prices vary greatly from place to place in Australia. I have referred to people in Hobart who have benefited greatly from this legislation. I am aware that the price of land in Sydney is notably higher than in smaller cities such as Hobart. I think it would be reasonable, however, for honourable members opposite occasionally to concede that the law of supply and demand underlies the great speculations, about which they hold forth, notably in relation to my friend the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer).  The fact is that some people happen to buy land for houses. I do not think that that is totally foreign to the experience of honourable members opposite. 1 do not think their ownership of land or property would bear any further examination than that of some members on this side of the House to whom they are very happy to point, speaking as it were from a condition of assumed paupery in comparison with all these supposed millionaires on this side of the House, some of whom I can assure them live on their parliamentary salaries. 
This is an extremely important matter. I think I have identified what I see to be the question which most needs answering in relation to the absorption of land and the development of city areas. One or two matters of passing interest and sometimes of great interest to the people concerned, more strictly in the financial area, are related to the detailed provisions of the Bill. I am somewhat at a loss. It may be because of my financial ineptitude. I wonder why we cannot extend our logic as expressed by the Minister, whom I have quoted, on the general philosophy of saving as being of very useful community constructiveness. 1 cannot quite see why any barriers should be made to the acquisition of the supplement by the Commonwealth through saving that does not absolutely have a speculative content. I have in mind something like a staff thrift account held by a bank employee who gains a little supplementary interest because he happens to be a bank employee and is operating effectively a savings account with a small interest loading because of his particular relationship with that banking instituiton It is not a speculative account and I cannot see why it should not be part and parcel of eligibility for homes savings grants. Taking it even further and laying myself more open to criticism, I cannot see why Commonwealth bonds should not be included. Surely the premise upon which we should make judgment is that it should be a genuine saving - in a genuine and constructive cause and not speculation, aided by further money attracted by way of windfalls from the Commonwealth. 
We are referring to savings for a particular purpose. I am quite sure it is within our competence to ensure that these savings are properly used. If not properly used they should not attract a grant, or if paid it should be retrospectively cancelled, reduced or taken back. There may be all sorts of complications but I do believe that we should fulfil the spirit of saving to the ultimate that we can in any reasonable way befitting the sorts of accounts into which people place their savings. In this sense the Minister has quite admirably, I think, recognised in this scheme the functions of credit unions. Other honourable members have already referred to this aspect and 1 do no more than add my approval of the particular expansion of the savings areas for those people who would be eligible for the grant. 
The amendments are extremely useful. I think they are necessary in the sense that the value of money has been reduced through inflation. I see them as assisting to maintain the high level of home ownership in Australia. I question whether we can go on indefinitely - I am not the first to refer to this matter - and continue our world record low average density of settlement, notably in our metropolitan areas. I have touched on this in another sense. It is part and parcel of all the sewerage problems and what have you that the honourable member for Reid and other honourable members waded through. It is of course reasonable to recognise that we do have a notably low average density and to sustain this average greater prices per capita will have to be paid for service lines above or below ground. 
I revert to the supply and demand situation. I cannot conceive of a more basic illustration of supply and demand than in the operation of land ownership for the simple reason that the population is not yet finite as is the supply of land, to all intents and purposes. Therefore we can make an economic textbook case. At the same time, there is not a case for heavy speculation. Honourable members opposite are right to draw attention to that aspect, but they might at the same time care to draw attention to those people who burn their fingers in speculation. It is very easy to talk about people who have made quite a nice profit. I can point to some people who have in fact been sitting on investments in pieces of land for a very long time, paying rates calculated on the unimproved value of their property, varying with the particular system operative in an area, and not necessarily making very much money at all. In fact, sometimes they are not even making bank interest. There is a tendency of course for the profit to improve depending on the size of centres. In some small centres it is not nearly such a nice cop as it is in some major centres. There are other elements of this problem. 
I do not defend great speculation but it is capable of control. I believe it is capable of control short of the usually unstated public fund which would have to be set aside at the present time to take over and appropriate some thousands of acres around the major centres. It is something that bears looking at but frankly I do not think it is of central significance to this particular problem at the moment. I commend the Bill to the House insofar as I have commented upon it. 
Has the Minister for Labour and National Service seen televised interviews in which unemployed persons have indicated their preparedness to remain unemployed until they can obtain jobs which best suit their inclinations? Is he aware that of 4,000 randomly selected people whomI have interviewed, as a politician, since January just seven or 0.2 per cent have raised the issue of unemployment? Does he know that my attempts to secure the services of a housekeeper while my wife is in hospital and I am here, made through all the normal channels including his Department, have been totally unsuccessful? 
I ask the Minister for Labour and National Service a question which is supplementary to one asked some weeks ago by the honourable member for Lalor relating to offences against the National Service Act. What now is the position in relation to that draft-evading gentleman from Victoria who seeks to represent the Australian Labor Party in this House, with the goodwill of the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, if not that of the Leader of the Opposition? 
In this type of debate I usually suffer the disadvantage of following the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  who is, at most times, a reasonable and even a temperate man. On this occasion, he has come out of character. I am reminded that my honourable and respected friend from North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  asked me, before leaving the chamber, from his great interest in military history, to speak on the matter of Matron Edith Cavell and Florence Nightingale. Their connection with this Bill is just as tenuous as that of the arguments of the honourable member for Fremantle. I am surprised and disappointed that he should take on the role of the great antagonist of present Government proposals in education. I can only suppose that it has finally come home to him that he is in grave danger of being replaced as shadow Minister for Education by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy).  God forbid. The plain fact of the matter is that it has become extraordinarily fashionable in the Labor Party for the cause of the independent schools to be vociferously denied and for the assumption to be made at one and the same time that this Government has no interest in the State schools systems, which it supports very substantially. 
I draw attention to the sorts of things which are happening at the present time, lest they escape the notice of all honourable members opposite and not only the honourable member for Fremantle. In 1971-72 the total capital and recurrent expenditure by Commonwealth and State governments for schools and teachers colleges was approximately $ 1,070m. That figure excludes the cost of transportation. About $l,000m of that total figure was spent on the government sector of education; about $70m, the remainder, was spent on the independent sector, which covers 22 per cent of the total school population. More broadly, government spending on all education increased from $45 6m in 1961-62 to about $l,600m in 1971-72, or from $43 to $126 per capita of the population over that 10-year period. The direct and indirect Commonwealth share of the $ 1,600m total government expenditure on education is about $900m. That can be compared with the expenditure of about $223m of 10 years previous. In other words, the Commonwealth sector increase has been more rapid than the increase in all government expenditure on education. The rate of increase has been most notable in the Government's direct expenditure on education, which has risen from $193m in 1968-69 to an estimated $426m in 1972- 73 - in other words, a 23 per cent increase over last year and a multiple of several over the preceding few years. 
The States spent something like $300- odd in running costs for each primary pupil and $500-odd in running costs for each secondary pupil in 1971-72. The indirect Commonwealth contribution to that expenditure was roughly half - $150 for each primary pupil and $250 for each secondary pupil. That, of course, is not the whole of the story because large sums of money do not in themselves tell the whole story and do not necessarily prove the value, the quality or anything else in relation to education. But we should bear in mind, even though it is not very directly specified in this Bill, the Commonwealth's recent emphasis on teacher education. I feel that this is at some variance with some of the allegations and assertions put forward by the honourable member for Fremantle tonight. From 1965 to 1970, to take the most recent year for which figures are available to me, there was a 19.3 per cent increase in primary teachers. That compared with an 11.9 per cent increase in enrolments in primary schools. In the same period there was a 39.3 per cent increase in secondary teachers compared with a 26.8 per cent increase in enrolments in the secondary sector. 
The honourable member for Fremantle also made reference to the pupils and asked why the emphasis could not be put on students rather than on schools, parents or what-have-you. In saying that, he might have taken into account the fact that in 1960 the 15 to 18-year-olds who remained at school constituted 26 per cent of that age group, but in 1970 - 10 years later - they constituted 42 per cent of that age group. I believe that nobody is more concerned than this Government and the members of its education committee about values in education. I know of no better way of inculcating the right values or of improving values in education than by emphasising teacher education, which this Government is doing quite substantially at all levels. Through teacher education, combined with education in the home, we may reach a point which is perhaps what the honourable member for Fremantle was talking about. If he was not, I hope that he has it in mind that the achievement of the sorts of things that these days are symbols of independence, such as motor cars, may not necessarily be the best way to achieve independence and status and that more constructive things may be representative of what people may learn through education of one kind or another. 
The burden of the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Fremantle is the appointment of an Australian schools commission, primarily for the purpose of assessing needs in education. This is not the first time we have heard of and had particular attention paid to the formation of an Australian schools commission. It has been a very fundamental plank in recent Labor Party education policy. The details of the Australian schools commission remain clouded in mystery. I suspect that they will remain so clouded until such time as at least this forthcoming election is completed and we find out whether or not anybody will be able to implement the unnamed details of the Australian schools commission. All that we really know is that it is proposed to centralise the administration - or at least the guideline formation for education - of the 10,000 Australian schools in one presumably Canberra based Australian schools commission. 
What that has to do with the system as it now runs, or with swimming pools for rich schools - an argument into which I was extraordinarily surprised to find the honourable member for Fremantle drawn - I do not know. One would have thought that he may have seen or heard of the extraordinarily constructive performance which people such as  Mrs Slattery  gave in a televised debate a week or so ago relating to such futile allegations as that. At least all those who cared to interest themselves in whether any government has ever provided money for swimming pools at private schools would have done so. The honourable member for Fremantle does not mind if the great public schools or their equivalents exist, as long as the parents pay. I am sure that that is a very fine sentiment. I believe one of the greatest innovations we have yet had in the educational field is that recurrent costs of independent schools are to be allied to the cost of educating children in government schools at the level of 40 per cent, half to be contributed by the Commonwealth and half to be contributed by the States. Perhaps the honourable member for Fremantle and his colleagues would take on board the benefits that will flow if all the 
States join with the Commonwealth in accepting the current proposal. A study will show them that parents who send their children to independent schools will be saving the general run of taxpayers, other than themselves, about S75m a year by their input to the independent school system. 
I acknowledge now, as I have done before, the right of anybody to oppose on philosophical or principle grounds the existence of independent schools, as state and church should not be in any way welded together or associated in that sort of monetary fashion. That is a very longstanding point of view and it is still tenable, but I believe that in the present climate it is completely unrealistic. Few countries in the world comparable with our own in a reasonable sense accept that unvarnished principle, however nice it might have sounded, however honourable it may be, or any other adjectival description it might enjoy at this time in the history of educational development. Keeping in mind the practicalities, the salient feature in the existence of independent schools is not that some people can afford to send their children to them and some cannot; it is not that the Government may subsidise in some small measure the private expenditure on education which otherwise would not exist; it is, in fact, that there is private expenditure on education. There is a relatively small amount of private or parental expenditure on education in government schools. 
A few months ago I asked a question on notice about tax deductions in respect of education for different categories of parents because I suspect that quite a significant part - not a major part - of income tax deductions for education is made by parents of children who attend State schools, Unfortunately such figures are not available in any recognisable form from Treasury sources. I wish they were available. The honourable member for Fremantle, of all people, repeated that the wealthy people send their children to independent schools and the poor people send their children to State schools. That just does not wash. 
There is a general proposition which is tenable that people who do not have high levels of income certainly will not be able to pay the fees of some of the non-Catholic independent schools, but considerable numbers of people with very ordinary incomes, as we have said many times in this House, send their children to independent schools. I could point to individual examples, and I am not far from one myself. People of quite ordinary means make considerable sacrifices to send their children to independent schools of varying degrees of quality. They do so for a variety of reasons, as the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and honourable members on this side of the House have pointed out. Some of them might be questionable, some of them less so. The fact that the honourable member for Fremantle and his colleagues would deny them that incentive, initiative and freedom of action does not at all impress us on this side of the House, although I would agree that there remains a part of the argument which deserves attention; that is to say that other people should not be disadvantaged, should not be unable to have access to education of some reasonable kind through lack of income. 
A great many of the Government's recent proposals in education have been directed towards that end although, as we know, there is a long way to go. In fact, it may be well nigh impossible to achieve equality of output from an educational situation. It may be possible to achieve equality of input opportunity. Increasingly research in the United States and elsewhere is showing that schemes of compensatory education have to go a good deal further than they have gone so far towards meeting real or imagined needs. They have not yet solved the problem of intelligence differentials. Honourable members opposite, whether they mean it or not, often sound as though they are happy to deny the existence of any innate intelligence differentials. They wish to place the whole of the burden on social environment. All the research that has so far come to my notice or that is available in the Parliamentary Library is still undecided. In fact the suspicion is growing once again that the argument about social environment is not quite enough, that there may be inherent differences which any amount of compensatory action in respect of social environment may not eradicate. 
Why the honourable member for Fremantle chooses to deal with the fact that there is no specific allocation for the manual arts and other such matters escapes my understanding entirely, because it is clear to anybody interested in this field that it is entirely open to the States to allocate their moneys where they will. The fact that the Commonwealth has seen fit to identify certain nation-wide specific areas such as library and laboratory needs surely does not mean that it is necessary or incumbent upon us to identify every possible specific, minor or other need among the educational demands that this vast field can place upon us. Surely the States in their already centralised education systems can be left something to do, to make some choices and to allocate some priorities of their own. I see that as a frivolous contribution by the honourable member who on other occasions might not have said it. 
In relation to the proposed establishment of an Australian schools commission, to the very best of my knowledge the poorer schools about which the honourable member spoke a great deal have shown no indication that they want such a body. The system of across the board per capita grants to assist independent schools with running costs is, to the best of our knowledge, the preferred policy of all major independent school organisations, whether they involve the so-called richer or the so-called poorer schools. Those organisations include the National Council for Independent Schools, the Federal Catholic Schools Committee, the New South Wales Catholic Schools Committee and the Australian Parents Council. None of those is asking for an Australian schools commission, so I suggest, with due deference, that honourable members opposite - we are not in the vote winning business, we are only talking about education - if they ever think of getting into the vote winning business, should take account of who is interested in their proposals. I do not think they will find that many people engaged in education are interested in them. 
The two Bills we are debating are not concerned only with independent schools and they are certainly not concerned with independent schools versus State schools. They provide, as the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  announced back in May, for expenditure of $167m over 5 years. That is not hidden under a bushel or concealed in the 1.5th paragraph. It appears in the second and third lines of the Bill. The expenditure, dating from July next, is for general building activity on government schools in the States. An amount of $48m is to be provided over the same period for independent school building. The increased per capita grants towards independent schools' running costs are on the basis of the designated 40 per cent of the costs as defined in government schools. Lest anybody has the impression that the proportions are wrong I point out that the allocation of $167m is 77.7 per cent of the total sum provided and roughly 78 per cent of the children attend government schools. The expenditure of $48m represents the same proportion of the total expenditure as the number of children attending independent schools represents of the total number of children attending school. 
It is a pity that the Labor Party seeks to divide the community on the matter of State aid. It is an important matter. As I said earlier, it has been a matter of principle and may still be a matter of principle for some people. In terms of practicality it is and has been a going concern. It has been championed by the Opposition, both State and Federal, for many years. It is a very strange thing that in their efforts to twist this issue into something that appears to be a total proposition in favour of need and not in favour of anything else including intelligence, diligence or parental input, members of the Opposition are trying to confuse the issues. I believe, that into the bargain they are confusing themselves. Whether it is the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy),  whether it is  Mr Hartley  of some political fame and who happens to chair the Australian Labor Party's Federal Executive Education Committee and who is totally - as might be expected - opposed to State aid in any form, or whether it is various others who at various times have disagreed with them in the past, such as the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and even the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives  (Mr Whitlam),  none is quite sure that he agrees with the others. Various of my colleagues can easily quote some of their sayings to indicate that state of affairs. This important proposal should not be allowed to fall into any sort of disrepute by virtue of a transference of emphasis to the question of whether independent schools should exist. They do exist. Their children are deserving of support. They will not get support to the detriment of state school children. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I feel that I must take up 5 minutes of the Committee's time to reply to 2 or 3 of the points made by my honourable colleague from Wilmot  (Mr Duthie).  The proposition that Tasmania, in desperation, may become a duty free State by means of a national referendum may be an attractive proposition from a publicity point of view. It may be made, and I take it to be made, in all seriousness by my honourable friend. But I think we must operate within the bounds of reality, because surely if we were to ask the Commonwealth and the people of Australia to go to such lengths to obviate the real or imagined disadvantages of the Tasmanian economy it would apply equally to other apparently or thought to be denied or disadvantaged regions of the country. Once other people are introduced to the scene, the proposition is no longer practicable. So I cannot really treat with the utmost seriousness the proposition which the honourable member has put that Tasmania should become duty free. The advantages are obvious but I think the reality is a good deal removed from his putting of the proposition. 
We are, however, left with other matters which the honourable member raised and which I believe are a good deal more in the realm of practicality although they have their own problems. If they did not, they would not still exist. The honourable member spoke particularly about trade. This theme is relative to this Estimates debate. He spoke about the shipping disadvantage in which Tasmania is placed. As honourable members well know, all Tasmanian members from both sides of this chamber and senators from the other place have from time to time contributed to attempts to solve this problem. It is a real problem and one that is very difficult of solution without creating precedents which again may be taken up by all sorts of far flung areas of the country. I think that the honourable member for Wilmot and others must realise that the question of freight rates, however persuasive and however worthy of publicity it tends to be in Tasmania - I have contributed to that from time to time - is nevertheless not the whole problem. 
They will know that in argument, in debate and in Press publicity about this question, arising as it does whenever there is an increase in freight rates or an interruption to the service through union activity, the Senate committee's report on shipping in relation to Tasmania should for the moment be the Bible in the factual sense of this subject. It is rarely referred to. In fact I think I could go so far as to say that it is never referred to. The reason is that it does not help our cause very much. It contains a considerable body of evidence taken on the question of Tasmanian shipping difficulties, but what it identifies, amongst other things, is that only about 40 per cent of the total cost of shipping goods from door to door is represented by the shipping freights. So whatever we do to the shipping freights will not solve the whole problem. I am not suggesting that we should not try to do anything about it. All of us have tried and are still trying to see whether we can get something done in that regard. The plain fact of the matter is that even if we achieve our objective the problem will remain, though it may be slightly diminished. So any proposition to change the Navigation Act, persuasive and sensible though it might be, so that we can achieve certain things in relation to freight rates, will not leave Tasmanian shipping free of problems and free of difficulty. 
I have come to believe over a period of time that a subsidy would be possible. I put this proposition to  2  successive Prime Ministers and Ministers for Shipping and Transport and, as I best understand it, they foresee very real problems of precedent in the sense that were Tasmania to get a shipping subsidy it would be no time at all before northern Queensland or the north-west of Western Australia or any distant area of the country would be. seeking to be in the same business. As a result the system ultimately would be nullified because there would be so many preferential areas. We would get back to taws. The argument which is often put by Tasmanian commercial and other interests is valid in that the capital grants or loans, more often loans than grants, which the Federal Government makes available in considerable quantities for railway ventures, whether it be the Mount Isa railway or the Tarcoola railway which is currently operating, are providing in various States lifelines of trade equivalent to Tasmania's shipping line. If, for good and proper reasons - or even improper reasons - that proposition continues to be rejected, it seems to me to leave us with one really constructive proposal in relation to Tasmanian shipping that may solve the problem, although it has to be said, as the honourable member for Wilmot well knows, that both King Island and Flinders Island are not exactly robust at the moment in relation to their shipping problems whether of an interstate or intrastate kind. 
What we have to think of in the not too distant future - in fact, right now - is the possibility of a Tasmanian shipping line which would and should attract whatever assistance would be reasonable from the Commonwealth, probably in the form of loans and possibly in the form of grants. The initiation of a Tasmanian Governmentowned shipping line is about the only way I can envisage of wading through this small morass and solving the problem in a thorough-going way. So long as we are subject to the difficulties which I and the honourable member for Wilmot outlined, and so long as we face the danger of creating precedents which will be immediately taken up by other parts of the country, I cannot see how we can solve the problem to the satisfaction of the Tasmanian population in any other way. 
The honourable member for Wilmot is somewhat at odds with himself when he says that Tasmania does not want to be a mendicant State or to have mendicant status when at the same time he wants subsidies right, left and centre. A State is either mendicant or it is not and it cannot be non-mendicant and still be asking for subsidies. Whether or not Tasmania is capable of standing completely on its own feet economically is a matter that we have explored in the past and can explore again at another time. We should not present the problems of Tasmania totally from the point of view of disadvantage. There are disadvantages, I agree, but there are advantages which are rarely outlined in these debates. Luckily there are sufficient people who care to live in Tasmania for some of the advantages which do not seem to accrue any more to the larger centres of population in Australia. My feeling is that the general trend of social and environmental thinking will put a premium on places like Tasmania if we care to wait long enough. Of course, that does not solve our problem for the moment. I agree with the. raising of this matter by the honourable member for Wilmot and I do not disagree with the need to which he referred, but I do disagree with some of his proposals which appear to contain an element of unreality. I hope that we can continue to work separately and together to achieve the ends we would both like to see in regard to Tasmanian trade, whether it is with the Australian mainland or, in a slightly closer context, between Tasmania's own islands and ports. 
Last night we discussed the programme for State and independent schools involving considerable amounts of finance and there is no point in covering that area again now. In the 10 minutes available to me in this debate I will confine myself to one or two of the smaller areas of Government expenditure on education, although they are by no means insignificant areas. In particular I want to take up the point that the Government has now seen fit to review the salaries of university staffs. In so doing an undertaking is given that the Sweeney report will be heeded in relation to colleges of advanced education; that is to say, whatever salaries are accepted as a result of the current review to take effect from the beginning of next year will in approximate measure operate for staffs of colleges of advanced education. 
It is usually thought to be politically unattractive to talk about differential deserts in relation to salaries and mcn matters but I would like to make a point that I have long since made as a member of a university; that is, that if as is being implied at present in one or two newspaper reports, this review is to lead to any differentials as between holders of similar rank or status in university occupations - or if not, for that matter - a hard look should be taken at the requisite qualifications for appointment to particular positions both inside universities and as between universities and colleges of advanced education. It is perfectly obvious to anybody who cares to look that the field is not as competitive for appointment to colleges of advanced education as it is to universities. In the market sense, there is no case for an automatic equality or near equality of salaries between universities and colleges of advanced education, irrespective of the level of appointment. There has been a long-standing case, to which I probably still adhere, for a lack of differentials as between professors of one subject and another. Good arguments can be adduced for paying premiums for particular input to particular skills, whether teaching, administrative, research or what have you. 
However, there is a severe disadvantage in paying differentials for different work inputs, different teacher loadings and so on in that there is a fair likelihood that the smaller universities in the smaller States will find themselves in a difficult competitive situation. It may not be so, but it is likely that a fairly heavy teacher load or a fairly heavy administrative responsibility in relation to a large department will produce, under those circumstances, a plus loading for a professor or another university staff man in a large university as distinct from a smaller one. There may be circumstances which could reverse that situation but I think that is the likelihood. Ir: that case there may be somewhat undesirable competitive ability arising throughout the Australian university system which, despite its recent growth, still has only a couple of handfuls or so - 3 to be precise - of universities and of course a rapidly growing number of colleges of advanced education. 1 think it has long since escaped the attention of people who administer bodies such as the Australian Universities Commission and the Australian Commission on Advanced Education that it became the practice in universities some years ago to tie all sorts of people other than academics to academic salaries. We are going to make judgments about academic salaries on the level of qualifications and the high competitiveness required for appointment. We leave aside at the moment whether the people are sufficiently tested for their teaching ability and that sort of thing. A case should also be made for that procedure. 
We nevertheless get the situation, for example, where librarians and administrative staff are tied to what are said to be equivalent salary scales of university lecturers and others. I see no case for that to occur except perhaps as a small matter of administrative convenience. People who are operating in quite different fields from the academic field of teaching and research are being paid equivalent rates although the academic positions bear little relationship to the jobs they are doing in the outside world. If differentials are to be created - and I am still apprehensive about it in some respects - they should be looked at very assiduously in all respects. I make one point in relation to universities and colleges of advanced education. I have recently been the subject, as it were publicly, of a leading letter in the Hobart newspaper from an unnamed lecturer at the College of Advanced Education alleging a great lack of government involvement in education expenditure, not only in colleges of advanced education but also right across the board. I duly replied to his letter and received a most unimpressive answer. The fact is that irrespective of that situation it should be made clear that the Government has accepted recently the recommendations in toto from both the Australian Universities Commission and the Australian Commission on Advanced Education in respect of every individual institution administered under those systems. No doubt should be left in anybody's mind that the Government on this occasion has at least accepted the recommendations for each of those numerous institutions. 
I will touch now on 2 or 3 other minor but important aspects of our educational programme. Honourable members opposite have had a great deal to say from time to time on this subject. It appears to me that no matter what the Government attempted to do honourable members opposite would make roughly the same remarks. Members of the Opposition said as recently as yesterday that the Government shows little interest in matters such as Aboriginal welfare and education. 1 draw attention to the fact that in the 1972- 73 Estimates we allocated S2m for Aboriginal advancement; $3. 01m for secondary school grants for Aborigines; and a further S0.72m for Aboriginal study giants. The numbers of students involved at present are 4,266 for secondary grants and 522 for advanced study grants. That total sum, estimated at not far short of $6m, relates to an Aboriginal population which, I think I am right in saying, could not be put at more than 140,000. Those Aboriginals who attend schools and are eligible or available for expenditure under these terms would be, of course, a very small fraction of that total number, on any calculation of per capita expenditure. 
I believe it is not only idle but in fact vexatious to say that the Government has not taken in the last few years at least reasonable account of Aboriginal educational advancement in Australia. By the same token migrant children, who could always be seen to have considerable need, basically because of the absolutely fundamental character of English expression and their ability to make their way in this society, have been allocated this year 4. 89m for their particular concerns in education, which is an increase from S3. 26m in 1971- 72. 1 believe the matters 1 have mentioned in the minor areas of educational expenditure are very important. The Government's identification of $1.5m for a period of 5 years for the study of Asian languages and culture and the development of programmes of teaching in this field is, I believe, of more than marginal importance to our educational system. 
I close by noting that one specific area in which the Commonwealth Government has involved itself and which is of considerable advantage to the average student and, in fact, to most students now passing through our education system is in the area of scholarships. As the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  pointed out, expenditure on scholarships this year has risen to a massive $56m compared with S45m or $46m last year. When seen to its logical conclusion, this amount will increase to $77m in the near future, while the total number of scholarship holders will increase from the present 70,000 to 123,000. To me, this is a move in the right direction, and it leaves most students in the position of being able to continue their education without severe financial difficulties. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to contribute briefly to the debate on the estimates of the Department of Health mainly because an attempt has been made to raise a political storm supposedly about medical ethics, and perhaps political party ethics. Yesterday the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  referred to the distribution of a letter by the  President  of the Western Australian branch of the Liberal Party to members of the medical profession. The honourable member has tabled the document and I have no wish to quote it in full now, but I do wish to take up the point particularly because of my very high regard in general terms for the honourable member for Perth. I believe that the manner in which the matter has been raised indicates a highly political action. I have no quibble with that. This is a good season for political actions. However, the assessments which follow the action are highly relevant to the issue. 1 can find in my experience and thoughts about such matters no objection whatsoever to any member of a political party or of the public writing to any member of the medical profession, the engineering profession or any other profession, irrespective of whether its members deal personally with the public, about any particular issue which the writer believes concerns that profession. I am not worried about whether the letter writer acts as an elector, a constituent, a professional person or whatever else. 
Surely the supposed impropriety of the circulation of the letter concerned is a complete furphy. Any ethical problem which arises is one between an individual doctor and his patient or patients. The medical profession is well known for the long period of time it has been in the forefront of those professions which look to their own professional ethics. Members of the medical profession, I understand, have formal regulations and rules by which they shall proceed. I do not think we need to worry at all about the medical profession contravening its ethical standards through the circulation of a letter by  Mr Samson,  whom I happen to know and respect, or by anybody else. Let us put this matter exactly where it ought to be in relation to the alternative health schemes proposed by political parties or now in operation in this country. 
The honourable member for Perth was seconded, as it were, by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  in drawing this matter to public attention. They have managed to get from the  President  of the Australian Medical Association - I think he is  Dr Johnson  - a statement which included the remark that it is not even a very good letter. That seems to me to be an extraordinarily minute sort of comment to make in the circumstances because the letter is entirely substantive and significant. It is no worse and probably no better than most other letters of this kind which receive public circulation. I would be very surprised if the Australian Medical Association does not amplify, clarify or polish up what  Dr Johnson  has been reported to have said. 
It is somewhat ironic that many of the fairly dire comments that have been made by the honourable member for Oxley were made in my own electorate in support of the Labor Party's candidate against me - and I might add, the reactions of the medical profession in that part of the world are seeping through at a fairly fast rate. Predictably, they are much in the one direction. It is also somewhat ironic to me that the honourable member for Oxley should have taken on  Dr Arnold,  Secretary of the General Practitioners Society, because if we on this side of the chamber have any argument with the medical profession in recent times it is more likely to be with  Dr Arnold  than with the Australian Medical Association in general.  Dr Arnold  takes a rather extreme view of some matters, but 1 do not want to run different hares in that direction. lt was clear at the instance of our most recent major changes to the medical scheme that the Government made it very much a part of its operation to ensure as best it could the continuity of general practitioners in this country. The referral system ensures that general practitioners will not be bypassed by patients greater public expenditure when it is not necessary. The proper operation of the scheme should ensure that result. There is no question whatsoever that the Government believes that the general practitioner - the family doctor, if you like - is absolutely fundamental to the proper operation of any medical system. 
The medical system at present puts a high premium upon individual practice. Irrespective of whether the medical profession acts in a godlike manner there is little doubt that at large, probably through no fault of its own, it has achieved in Australia a fairly considerable status. It may even be said that along with very few other professions it occupies a position of some privilege. As in any other profession or occupational group, some members may be grasping or more interested in their own welfare than that of their patients, but in my experience there are very few of them. Some doctors may manage to play golf on Wednesday afternoons but they do in fact represent, to my knowledge and by all reports, as good an operation of medical practice as can be found anywhere in the world, and undoubtedly better than most. After all, that is what we are paying for in this system. 
It is interesting to note how honourable members opposite who are members of the medical profession moderately support their Party's socialised medicine policy. They have not been exactly falling over themselves in this debate to support in all quarters the propositions of the honourable member for Oxley. It has been said before in other ways and I repeat now that the Government, as  Mr Samson's  letter indicates quite precisely, is totally opposed to any form of socialised medicine which even approximates the oft cited - but not often enough cited - British example. In this morning's 'Canberra Times' is a letter written by a former general practitioner in Britain which indicates some of the bureaucratic obfuscations, delays and inefficiencies encountered in a socialised medical system. Inefficiencies were referred to by the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross).  He included the multiple medical benefits funds, taking of course absolutely no cognisance of what was read to the House this morning by the Acting Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  from the Nimmo report. That quotation completely justified the existence of a variety of sizes and shapes of medical benefits funds. Honourable members opposite would on many counts attempt to centralise their operations into grandiose and over large bureaucratic organisations. 
Occasionally the Government may be caught in the same sort of vice but it does not intend to be caught in that sort of operation any more frequently than it can possibly help. We stand for initiative, efficiency and individual responsibility in the medical profession as in any other profession. While some people may blot the escutcheon of those societies or groups, in general terms we can say with complete confidence that the medical profession acts responsibly. In its day to day operations there is not much evidence which should lead us to want a more socialised scheme ultimately depending upon a very centralised and bureaucratic organisation, thereby tending by its nature to diminish the private relationship between a doctor and his patient which necessarily underlies the operation of any medical practice in any nation in the world. 
The subject of urban and regional development is the most complex and probably the most important to come before this Parliament. The recent statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  indicating the Commonwealth's preparedness to espouse the cause, has rightly drawn considerable comment. I leave aside assessments such as the charge of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  that it is too little, too late, and his urban spokesman's belittling description of the Government's proposals as 'an imitation of progress'. I want now to identify the problem as simply as I can. Fundamentally it is a matter of population distribution. In the driest continent our population distribution is still dominated by the 6 original capitals, on sites that were chosen as regional centres before the hinterland was fully explored. The development of remarkably extensive forms of agriculture, notably sheep grazing and wheat farming, provided no interior urban challenge to the established coastal settlements. Through geographical momentum they maintained their importance relative to later foundations, and their common seaboard locations permitted a continuity of transport nodality. 
There are many cities in the world larger than Sydney or Melbourne, let alone our other State capitals. Some of them operate very effectively, so it is not sufficient to protest that city size constitutes an automatic disaster. On the contrary, it can be argued that much of Australia's postwar prosperity - or at least its prosperity during the decade or so during which we have been off the sheep's back - has depended upon the concentration of much of our population and productive capacity in a small number of port cities. The economic advantages and, with some qualification, the social advantages of agglomeration, are real. We should not pretend that they do not exist. What accentuates our leading Australian cities is the contrast between the dominant capitals and the 

<graphic href="080131197209280_106_1.jpg"></graphic>

What worries us is our empty spaces. The cry used to be 'populate the North'. Now the policy is to populate the interstitial spaces. In our efforts to do so it would be wise to remember that the climate and the rural economy have never attracted large numbers of people to the small population centres of the inland. Sydney or the bush' is an exaggeration founded on fact. In most countries of the world there is a fairly regular progression from farms to hamlets, to villages, to minor towns, to major towns, to regional capitals and then to a national capital. In the United Kingdom, London is clearly dominant, but below it in rank order are the Birminghams, Newcastles, IBristols and Plymouths. IIn Australia there is a notable gap in the population continuum. Outside the State capitals only 4 centres contain populations in the range 100,000-500,000, and of these Newcastle, Wollongong and Geelong are also on the seaboard. I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard a census table showing the first 35 population centres of the country. 
I  hope the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  understood what he was telling us because I found great difficulty in doing so. I wonder who wrote the paper from which he was reading. We are discussing the estimates of a composite group of expenditures under the heading of one department and which . number among them the environmental aspect of our life. It is true that most of what is happening in the environmental sense is to be found in these estimates under the heading 'Administrative' which accounts for more than half of the total of over $40m to be appropriated. There are one or two areas of specific monetary grant where we can see the activities of the Department in operation. Perhaps the most notable is in relation to the Australian Conservation Foundation which has had its grant trebled from $50,000 to $1,50,000 for this financial year. Considering that the Conservation Foundation and various branches of that body are likely at any stage to be quite significant critics of any government which cannot be seen to be doing enough in the environmental sense, I think this is a significant contribution and it is  a  significant indication of the Government's intentions in the field. 
If I may say so, as usual the honourable member for Reid finds himself in a state of internal disagreement because, whilst on many occasions he has spoken to us in this chamber of the need to preserve Bellbird Hill - or is it Bluebird Hill - and such places from the predatory bulldozer operators, he has spoken to us also on frequent occasions about the need to give away land at the periphery of our metropolitan areas. He has not got so far as to put 2 and 2 together and realise that this is absolutely the best means of achieving the reverse of his first objective* Perhaps some time he and the people who help him with these matters will put the whole thing together and decide whether they are going to go for balanced development so that the environment is seen in the perspective of economy and vice versa, or whether they are going to keep them absolutely separate and therefore almost totally meaningless. 
One of the biggest problems that confronts this or any other government in doing something meaningful in the environmental area is to work with all the powers that be in the matter. We are well aware that the initial attempts of the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  to enlist the cooperation of the States in a national intrusion, as it were, into this field were not universally acclaimed. However we may deprecate the parochialism or whatever that represents, the plain fact of the matter - something which is usually obscure to members of the Opposition - is that in a given constitution or governmental structure it is necessary to work with the other people who have some share in it. This is one of the prime aims of the Commonwealth in championing this cause. I suppose it is fair to say now that the much criticised, in some ways, impact statements are in fact a very considerable move in the direction of a national framework for environmental awareness and action. I would agree with those who would prefer to see any or all of these forthcoming impact statements to be made public property as soon as possible. I think there is very little case apart from the fact that from time to time they may be innately or inherently or inextricably tied to particular Cabinet submissions. Apart from that, I think these things should be available to all the critics and all the assessors of their worth. 
I think people are aware that impact statements are designed to show what any given intended action may produce in the environmental sense, in particular what detrimental effects or what changes in the environment may be brought about by any direction of action. What we have to do, what the Minister has to do and what his Department has to do is to get into some reasonable sense of balance the kind of things we need to be done in the future in the environmental sense. It is one of the most complex areas we take upon ourselves governmentally. We have, in simple terms, the physical environment which involves things like air pollution, water pollution, perhaps the consequences of over-population, depletion of resources and matters of that kind. On the other hand, we have the social environment in which aesthetics, interpretations, perception and the quality of life in a general sense are more likely to be involved, although both these facets-the physical and the social - add up to the quality of life. 
However inherently desirable or honourable or constructive moves may be to produce zero population growth, to produce wildernesses on every hand or to at least preserve them, what we have .to do is to see these where they fall. It is not much good transferring the problems of Lake Erie to Sydney Harbour without further investigation. It is not much good talking about the population problem of Hong Kong and transferring it to Melbourne without further investigation. While we need to be aware of international moves and international problems in this field, and, in particular I suppose, where the forces concerned are to some extent international mainly in the water and in the air, we do have to get the thing in perspective, preferably in national perspective and that is what I believe our Minister is about. I think we will see that it is not long before the Department of Environment, Aborigines and the Arts will be working towards national standards for a variety nf things. Again that will involve State cooperation. It will be reflected in the impact statements. It will involve research of a very positive kind, whether done directly by Commonwealth agencies or by others, or fostered by the Commonwealth. But none of these things will be meaningful unless we relate them to specific Australian conditions. We have seen some reference in recent weeks to the question of mercury content in fish. Its particular relationship to the population consuming the fish depends, as we have seen even in the Press, on a number of things, not the least of which is how much fish one eats. So, again, we have to make individual assessments related to international knowledge for our particular circumstances. 
I believe that this is where environmental action and policy are beginning in our Commonwealth Department. I do not believe that the attempts to suggest that we are weak, in not having taken over the States in a week or two, are worthy. I think it is entirely proper that we should move on a national front and with the utmost co-operation with others who have their own State responsibilities. There may come a time when it will be necessary for the Commonwealth to impose a greater will in the face of some obvious reluctance on the part of a lesser authority to do the right thing either by its local population or for national reasons. In that case I would go along with that. But for the time being I think that we are doing the sort of thing we ought to be doing: We are. taking cognisance of land use. The debate which we have only just concluded, relating to urban and regional development, dealt with land use which is one of the most basic facets of this whole environmental business. If we continue to work in that direction I believe that the. expenditures which are at present reasonably small will be seen to grow, and to grow effectively. 
A number of the recent contributions to this debate have focused on the question of foreign aid, and I would like to contribute a little further to that. The honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  made a number of largely unexceptional propositions. He pointed to more problems than solutions to them. One would not question in any substantial measure the statement that we should not give foreign aid .for purposes such as relieving agricultural surpluses, indoctrinating other people or at least assisting them to feel more friendly disposed to us rather than &lt;o some other forms of government or 'ideology. Those things have been accepted for some time now. The difficulty is in executing the programmes so that those matters lake a back seat and so that other more humanitarian and constructive issues come to the fore. 
The increase in aid in this budgetary year to $220m, including the major portion that goes to Papua New Guinea, is one of the more commendable developments in our budgeting this year. There is a fairly widespread awareness throughout the community of the desirability of Overseas aid. A movement called Action for World Development has spread itself fairly effectively through numbers of community groups and numbers of people, largely through a church basis. In the main it has very desirable aims. Depending on the group and the' people involved and perhaps the origin of the push in that direction, I find it to be a varying mixture of reality and unreality. On the one hand we have very desirable general aims of improving the lot of people less well off than ourselves and on the other hand we have what amounts to attempts to restructure our tariffs so that we let in the agricultural products of underdeveloped areas, presumably sometimes running the risk of sending to the wall some of our own producers or manufacturers. 
I feel that some of these things are very uncritically stated but nevertheless they come under a general umbrella of a desirable public interest in the question of . aid for people less well off than ourselves. Some assessments and re-assessments now being made and published may throw certain doubts on my belief in the matter, but I think that the education of people to help themselves is perhaps the best single way, short of attending to various crises as they arise, of giving aid to people who need it more than we do ourselves. The salient feature of the Government's efforts in this direction has been the Colombo Plan. Over the last couple of decades members of the Opposition have rarely disagreed with it. One of the difficulties in making it absolutely effective is assessing what needs will be most to the fore when the students whom we are helping to educate return to their homelands. An additional problem is to see that they do return. So we have this rather paradoxical, ironical situation whereby quite a number of people who come here as students to improve themselves to go back and improve their own countries get to a point where they see that the improvement, to themselves at least, may be better spent somewhere else, namely here, and failing here, perhaps the United States, Canada or somewhere else where they can get post-graduate scholarships or employment in teaching or scientific areas. So that is a real problem which we have had to face both in the ambit of the Department of Foreign Affairs and in relation to our education policy for many years now. It is difficult to know how we can solve it. 1 think the only way to do this is to have constant assessments and reassessments of the kind that have now been done back in the home countries of some of these students to see in fact what they are doing and whether they are using their acquired skills in roughly relevant ways. The more we can do in that direction the better I think will be spent the money we expend in this field. 
There are, of course, the humanitarian aspects of this aid - not of the Colombo Plan precisely, but of overseas aid generally. I think my friend the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid)  has more than anyone else enunciated views in that sphere since be came to this Parliament. Therefore I think there is a place for looking intensively and with as much possible unselfinterest as we can muster at matters such as those which have arisen in Bangladesh and more recently in Uganda. I think perhaps we could allow our flexibility of operation here to be somewhat greater than that of the past, especially in regard to the introduction of relatively few numbers of people who are under considerable threat in their own areas. I think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  who is now at the table, has acted with considerable insight and considerable diligence in relation to one or two of the recent crises such as that of Bangladesh in seeing to the best of his ability and authority that the aid 'that was going from public and even private sources in Australia to that area was spent in the best possible ways. I say this becaue there is a long history, as many honourable members have mentioned in the past and even tonight, of difficulty in seeing that overseas aid is expended in the best possible way. 
In the remaining few minutes of my speech I would like to touch on the question of Papua New Guinea which is related to the foreign affairs area. The Minister for External Territories  (Mr Peacock)  in a statement tonight made mention of selfgovernment in that area. This is something which has moved much more rapidly than most members of this Parliament could foresee in the last two or three years and certainly before that time. The general development of self-government, of autonomy, or semi-autonomy is one which in the general sense, is desirable but which clearly in the last few months alone is not going &gt;to be achieved without difficulty. This is seen from public statements relating, for example, to reassessment of Bougainville copper contracts and to reassessment of the positions of public servants, particularly expatriate public servants and so on in New Guinea. There are internal problems in New Guinea which will take a lot of solving by  Mr Somare  or anyone else. I think that our good will, our interest and our money will be needed for as long as we possibly can expend them in that quarter, because the people of Papua New Guinea face problems which are, I think, a good deal more serious than the would-be urban crises which are developed by our friends from the Australian Labor Party in respect to Australia. 
There is a developing urban squatter problem in places like Port Moresby where highlanders dispossessed either of territory or of jobs are coming down and are forming relatively speaking unhealthy social groups and are tending to increase at a rapid rate, even to the point of 4 or 5 per cent per annum of population growth, which is quite a remarkable figure. There are considerable fears in Papua New Guinea that the ultimate division in the country may be one of highlanders versus lowlanders 
People, particularly in the academic area, foresee this possibility with certain misgivings, in fact with quite precise misgivings. I think it will be a great pity if Papua New Guinea's ultimate selfgovernment is prejudiced by the inability to carry out what the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  and others were talking about in relation to other places - that is, the minimising of the gap between the haves and the have nots, or at least the haves and those who have less. We just have to help as much as we can to get this rather precipitate development in the direction of self-government to a point where all members of that community are to the best of our assistance going to share in the autonomy that develops. It will not be easy, and one can take either a pessimistic or optimistic view about future possibilities. The best we can do is to continue to develop our attitudes and our assistance as we have in the past, bearing in mind that the major portion of our foreign affairs aid still relates to this external Territory which is now to be a self-governing unit. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  spoke of unemployment as being appropriately within the jurisdiction of the Department of Labour and National Service whose estimates the Committee is now considering. I would like to say a few words on this subject too because &lt;t is one which concerns most people in Australia, but perhaps not so much as honourable members of the Opposition like to think. They cry havoc in relation to this particular field of operation, or inoperation in the case of unemployment, on numerous occasions in this Parliament and outside it. Even when the figures on employment are not running as well as we would like, running at about 100,000, honourable members opposite after some little time find that an inadequate figure on which to base their cries of havoc and they speculate that the figure will be 250,000 in the not too distant future. In other words, they just think of a number. 
Unemployment is no laughing matter for anybody who is unemployed and who wishes to be otherwise. Most of all it is no fun for people who have developed, by one means or another, real skills and who find that despite holding those skills they are unable to put them to proper use. In any circumstance in any country that must be regarded as a socially unacceptable situation insofar as the problem can be solved. Nevertheless, we have to look behind the gross figures to understand the situation and to know the realities of the position. While we have 100,000 or so people registered or nominally unemployed, we have a quarter of that number of jobs registered as vacant. So we can immediately reduce the number of unemployed by quite an appreciable extent. We then look to the people who, rightly or wrongly, are disinclined to travel to the vacancies that are available for their skills or lack of them and to the people who are disinclined to take a particular job as it is not one that suits them because it does not pay them as much as they think they ought to be paid or for some other reason of that kind. That sort of thing has not been thoroughly assessed at the present time. I concede that it would be difficult to assess in a thorough manner. 1 think that more should be done. If that sort of thing were assessed we might reach a situation that is a little more real than the tossing off of round figures of the gross unemployed in the country. 
In only the last few weeks or so certain people have made public statements, even on television interviews, for example in Sydney, to indicate that they are unemployed and they wish to remain unemployed until such time as they can find something that best suits their inclinations. It would be very nice if we could find exactly the things that suit our inclinations. lt would be very nice for all members of this Parliament who are in danger of losing their seats at the end of this parliamentary session if they could just plop into whatever they chose to do. That will not be the case for all the people who may be in that situation and it is not the case for members of the public generally. We have a situation where numbers of people have stated publicly that they are not thoroughly unemployed, to the extent that they are not prepared to work in particular avenues. This is not totally dependent upon the lack of exercise of given skills. 
The situation was publicised recently of a garment industry that has over a period of time been trying to find a work force of 400 or 500 in a northern Sydney suburb, lt has been able to find only a maximum of 200 at any one time. So rather than develop the industry in that particular suburb it was moved to a more industrial area out of the Sydney region. This may or may not have been a good thing, hut the industry was not able to obtain a female work force of adequate proportions in a well known Sydney suburb because sufficient people were not interested to be employed. In that case female labour was involved. The Department of Labour and National Service has been studying and promoting from time to time particular initiatives, such as the one relating to child care centres, in regard to the female work force. The Department has recognised the increasing involvement of females in the labour force of the country. One facet of this operation has been to make available Commonwealth funds for a development which will enable the children of working mothers to be reasonably looked after, probably to be productively and constructively looked after, while their mothers are at work. 
In this context I would mention that some very persistent thought should be given to the problem of the working father who does not have a wife. I have met only a few of these people but I have found no more poignant cases of the need for this facet of work force provisions to be developed. The males in this position are not eligible for social service benefits or for the assistance of the kind which females receive who have lost their husbands and who have dependent children. There are some very poignant cases of husbands who, by the death of their wives or for some other reason, have been left with 2 or 3 young and sometimes very young children to look after. They find themselves physically incapable of doing this and conducting their general work at the same time. In one or two cases I know of they have had mental breakdowns. The result is that the husband has lost his wife, the husband may lose his job at least temporarily and the children certainly hove lost the benefit of the presence of both parents. It is time we had a look at that situation, whatever women's liberation may say about it. 
The question of women in the work force raises another facet of unemployment. A couple of weeks ago I asked a question without notice of the Minister for Labour and National Service which related to my experience in talking to about 4,000 people since the beginning of this year, 7 of whom had raised with me the question of unemployment. I know that is not a statistically tenable proposition in the proper sense of statistical dependability but it is indicative that there were not very many of those people who had unemployment heavily on their minds. In the same context I also raised a question to the effect that for over a month I had been unable to acquire the services of a housekeeper for a time when I would be in Canberra and my wife would be in hospital.  Mr Speaker  interjected and said that that was not really within the province of the Minister for Labour and National Service. I think that in the terms of the child care centres and other things it is thoroughly within the province of the Minister - not my personal problem but the problem of the unemployment of women who are available for employment. If, in fact, we are doing the sort of thing that was projected yesterday in this chamber in relation to child care centres, then clearly there are measures being taken to make it possible for women to make themselves available for various forms of work. The fact that workers are unobtainable over an extended period of time in this or that place surely means that there are vacancies in the work force and people are not eligible to fill them. That, of course, has a direct implication and connotation in relation to the unemployment figures which honourable members opposite are so fond of talking about. 
I would be remiss in concluding my remarks in relation to the estimates for the Department of Labour and National Service if I did not draw attention to a matter that was discussed at some length in this chamber not very long ago and which is very much within the province of this Department. We discussed a thorough revision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. During the discussion many honourable members, on the other side of the House, rejected the idea of the involvement of the public interest. They were happy to see agreements between employers and employees which did not necessarily take account of the public interest. I think as time has gone on those honourable members have already been found and will increasingly be found to be grossly in error in their judgment in that matter. It is, indeed, very much incumbent upon anybody who has social concern in Australia to take cognisance of the public interest in any arrangements that may be made of a wage fixing kind or any related matter in the public arena. 
Likewise, the question of a 35-hour week, which was thoroughly discussed at one stage, is increasingly showing honourable members on this side of the chamber to be right. Of course the introduction of the 35-hour week will be inevitable, but timing - I say this for the benefit of those honourable members who speak about it being time - is absolutely of the essence. The fact that the 35-hour week will come at some other time, as the 40-hour week came in the past, is not the point. The point is that the time is not appropriate for its introduction now. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
1 ask the Minister for Supply: Is it a fact that this Government, following its return at the forthcoming election, is to reduce the Commonwealth car pool and transfer the heavy transport section to private enterprise? Is the implied reduction of employment yet another Australian Labor Party inspired election furphy? 
I speak to these 2 joint Bills for 2 main reasons. One is that although very little indeed of the Australian apple and pear crop is grown in my electorate, of just over 4 million bushels of apples exported this year from Australian ports to Britain and Europe, 2.7 million bushels were exported from the port of Hobart, including Port Huon, which has a minor part of that total. The second reason is that my friend, William Craig, who is contesting the seat of Franklin, has taken a continued and deep interest in this subject for some months past. He is in fact interpreting these pieces of legislation to the best of his ability to the electors of that area which surrounds mine. 
It is difficult to know which of these Bills is more important to the apple and pear growers of Tasmania and of the rest of Australia. They are both quite vital to the operations of at least some of them. While the Apple and Pear Stabilisation Bill we are debating today seeks to amend the legislation of a year or so ago by increasing the amount available for stabilisation payments, the other part of the debate today concerning fruit growing reconstruction as one aspect of rural reconstruction is of vital importance at least to some growers at this time. In his second reading speech the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  paid considerable attention to the State of Tasmania and to Tasmania's fruit growing industry as this legislation concerns it. There is little point in my repeating the sort of things which he said and the ' particular attention which he paid to that situation. However, if one reads his remarks i'l becomes difficult to see why the position obtains which is outlined here and there by members of the Opposition. 
I think that few people are absolutely happy with every aspect of the fruit ,industry, with or without this legislation; but it is difficult in fact to see how it could be true that, according to the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  last Thursday, the growers in Tasmania regard this as- an abject failure. He further found it difficult to see how there will be any practical benefit to the growers. I just transliterate him slightly, but that is almost exactly what he said. There is in fact $2.3m designated for distribution to apple and pear growers- and a similar amount to soft fruit growers, so clearly somebody is to benefit by this distribution of funds. Of course, whether they benefit enough can be a point of argument, political or otherwise. It is absurd to suggest that the fruit growers will not benefit from this legislation. All we have to ascertain is whether enough of them who are deserving are to benefit. 
In that respect I would like to take up the 2 terms of reference which relate to the eligibility of growers for assistance under the so-called tree pull scheme. The Minister's second reading speech makes reference, firstly, to those farmers, predominantly horticulturists, who are in severe financial difficulties and who wish to fell their orchards and leave the industry. Other members on both sides of the House have in fact touched on the question of the operation of a means test. In case it is not already clear - I think there are a few people in the industry who are not totally clear yet - I would like the Minister ultimately to make it perfectly clear that as far as the Commonwealth is concerned the judgments to be made in relation to those farmers, those fruit growers, are judgments to be made by the State authorities; that the decisions, I think quite properly, have been delegated to the State Departments of Agriculture or sections of those Departments as to which growers are eligible for subsidy or for assistance under this scheme. 
It appears that a question of a means test and, if so, what means test arises in the average grower's mind or at least many grower's minds. This is something to which I think we need to have as clear answers as possible in the interest of well-being in the industry. As I understand it, the States will decide what means are allowable for people to qualify for assistance under the first category. To my mind there is no reason why the States should not make those decisions. They are closest to the situation. Why should the Commonwealth intrude any more than it needs to in deciding that test, and why indeed should the States not put up their own people, as appropriate, as eligible persons under this legislation? There is no constructive point in suggesting that this is some sort of ruse. The money is there. It is clearly a matter of defining those people who are eligible for it. 
The second category comprises those whose property would become viable if some or all of their fruit trees were removed and the land put to other use but who lack the resources to finance the removal of trees. One question I have heard raised relates to the term 'other use'. Is it in fact possible for a grower who is producing or even overproducing a particular variety which no longer commands a sufficient sale on the relevant markets to be eligible for assistance under this scheme to remove the unsaleable variety of tree and then, not wanting to leave the industry, to replace it with a saleable variety of tree? That is a question which I think has not been absolutely defined and one which certainly interests some growers currently in the industry who have certain difficulties. 
I think I understand the difficulties of making a decision in that matter. As other members have been well aware, you do not just produce fruit 5 minutes after putting in a new fruit tree. Of course one of the biggest problems, as with other rural industries but particularly with the fruit growing industry, is the number of years which it takes, after making decisions to go ahead on some front, to get a return from the investment. In other words it takes a number of years for the trees to grow to maturity or to producing age. This is a problem faced many times all over the world in relation to olives, citrus fruits and so on. It is no less in relation to apples and pears in Tasmania or Australia at large. So,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I hope we can solve those 2 problems in the better clarification and operation of this matter. 
I do not believe that this is one area of legislation in which we should be making any more politics than absolutely necessary. In particular, the tree pull programme or reconstruction programme, if looked at in anything greater than superficiality, is of course, as the legislation says, a reconstruction programme. In other words, it is in fact a social welfare programme of a certain kind. It is not an economic programme. Nobody in his right mind, in the sense of pure economics, would do what has been done long since in the United States of America, and pay people to pull out the things that produce revenue. The plain fact is that the things being grown are not producing revenue. People are becoming unviable, so we are talking in terms of a social welfare proposition essentially to get these people into a reasonable operation of one kind or another or, for that matter, as far as fruit growing is concerned, into non-operation if that is in fact their alternative, to get out of the industry. 
In these terms it seems to me that it ill behoves the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  in what I might maintain is his customary fashion, to talk in this House last Thursday in terms of  the money being provided under this legislation being inadequate or not enough to assist people to pull their trees out and become non-producers of fruit. That is what happened on Thursday, but on page 2 of today's 'Australian' we find the same gentleman being quoted as saying that the Government's policy of reducing production will mean that apples will cost 30c each in the city, oranges will cost 20c and canned fruits will be a luxury. What a mealymouthed proposition that is. On Thursday he berated us for not going far enough in paying people to pull their trees out. On Monday he created the usual Australian Labor Party aura of havoc or crisis in respect of something which is totally unprovable to be either havoc or crisis and said that we should be doing the absolute opposite and encouraging people to produce more. So it is a little difficult to see that he is making any contribution to this argument, except a blatantly political one. If that is his point of view, that is all right with him. I understand that he is even very shortly going to open an apple and pear growers meeting in the area cf the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry).  I hope that he dusts up his views a little before doing this or, if he does not, I hope that some people will put him on the spot and ask him whether he is for more production or less production. I think it is nearly time he made up his mind. 
It is pretty clear that there is a very substantial difficulty in relation to the fruitgrowing industry. We have had difficulties in rural areas in respect of a number of industries in recent years. Partly by Government action and partly fortuitously, the situations in those industries have improved quite considerably even in the last few months. Most of the problem has stemmed from matters pretty much outside our dictates - from world market prices and the like. However, it is true to say, as the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  and I think one or two others before him have said, that the question of freight rates is of paramount importance to the fruit industry and, of course, to some other industries in Tasmania. Much as it might be useful to put aside the conference system and look to Israeli lines or others to produce better freight rates in respect of apple and pear shipments to which the honourable member drew attention, I could not possibly go along with his other proposition that an enlarged Australian National Line would produce the same result. 
It is a nice thought. I think it is in the nature of being a pious thought, because any indications that we have of the depredations of Australian seamen at present and in recent times suggest that any operation of an extension of the Australian National Line for the purpose to which he referred, would, in fact, produce almost the opposite effect to that which he wants. In other words, there is no precedent to suggest that we would reduce freight rates; in all probability we would increase them, reduce the efficiency of the service and end' up with a considerable shipping mess. Nevertheless, if he manages to get into governmentwhich I hope will not occur - he may happily try that particular line, irrespective of the precedents. 
The problems of apple and pear growing, and likewise the growing of  ' soft fruits, and the need to sustain them by means which have not hitherto been seen to be necessary in Australian rural industry, have to be seen in a world context. It is obvious that the industry has suffered considerable difficulties from external and internal forces. For example, Tasmanian apple exports in 1972 were 5.1 million bushels. Only back in 1964 exports were just over 8 million bushels. Of course: that sort of reduction - from over  8  million bushels to a little over 5 million bushels in less than a decade - represents a very considerable impact on the growers in the industry. As is usual in these things, the small growers are affected before .the large ones who tend to have the flexibility to sustain any impact of that kind, and it tends to be the small growers who go to the wall. 
However, we have been seriously threatened in our export markets by competitors from outside the immediate area of what is now the Commonwealth. At page 22 of the Australian Apple and Pear Board Annual Report for 1971-72, imports of apples from Australia into Britain - bearing in mind that Britain and Europe take about four-fifths of our total exports this year - are shown as being 50,000 tons, compared with South Africa's provision of 78,600 tons. We need only to refer to 1965 to (find almost the exact reverse of  that situation. In that year Australia provided 82,200 tons compared with South Africa's 50,000 tons. In other words, the position which we enjoyed in the middle 1960s as an exporter of apples in particular is now reversed in relation to South Africa, whose production has risen progressively during the whole of the subsequent period. The result, of course, is that we no longer enjoy the situation which we have enjoyed in the past. 
It is not as though the writing was not on the wall. I can recall being in Britain in 1964 when this situation was threatened. It was suggested then that the South African season was being extended to enable the South Africans to move into that area which was something of a vacuum as far as our provision of produce to the market was concerned. So, at that time the area from which we benefited by having most of it was being moved into as a result of the South African market extension. Of course, in a sense we are only on ' the threshold of the real external problems. If we look at the various reports and studies, not the least of which is in the July number of the 'Quarterly Review of Agricultural Economies', we see articles such as this one by  Mr N.  D. Honan: 
 The repercussions of the change in the United Kingdoms tariffs on horticultural products are likely to he substantial, since Britain imports virtually all of its requirements of dried vine fruit and canned deciduous fruit, as well as. substantia] proportions of its needs of fresh apples and pears. 
The article goes on to state: 
The prospective increase in supplies of apples coming forward from other southern hemisphere suppliers indicates that Australian apples are likely to experience strong competition on the United Kingdom market The' entry of the United Kingdom into the enlarged community, and the eventual relaxation of measures restraining imports of apples into the United Kingdom are likely to result in greater supplies coming forward from France and Argentina. 
And so it goes on. The various technical and technological problems - freight problems and so on - to which honourable members so far have drawn attention in this debate will become even more pertinent when Britain becomes a full member of the enlarged European Economic Community. So, the matters which these 2 cognate Bills are seeking to underpin and make good at the moment certainly will not become any less difficult. 
I think the Government's decision, uneconomic as it seems to be, to go into an area of social welfare provision in relation to the fruit-growing industry is probably well taken because the omens are not very hopeful. The suggestion is that it will be necessary to curtail our fruit-growing industry, particularly the apple and pear section in Tasmania, to a point where we are producing as nearly as possible a balanced output for the available market. Of course, it will still be incumbent upon us, through improved marketing procedures, single brand fruit labels and the rest, to extend our market as far as is possible into areas of Asia - Japan and so on - so that to some extent we can make good the diminishing market which has sustained us for so long in Britain particularly and in northern Europe generally. I believe that these provisions are very timely. Some would say that they are perhaps even slightly behind timely.. They are certainly needed. The individual grower who needs these subsidies and grants will in fact gain quite a lot from them. I hope that in their working out the State authorities will seek to gain the greatest advantage for the individual grower, . commensurate with the total amount of money made available by the Commonwealth for the purpose of either stabilisation or reconstruction. 
As the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  pointed out, Tasmania has been the most persistent recipient of assistance under the Commonwealth Grants Commission since the inception of that body. I would be doing less than justice to it not to acknowledge the benefit of that receipt. It is quite fashionable in certain quarters to decry the assistance which this Government, through a body such as the Grants Commission, gives to Tasmania. It is fashionable also to talk about problems of shipping notably and all the other matters which are supposed to indicate neglect by this Government of the State of Tasmania. Only yesterday I think it was the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  who said that he regarded Tasmania as akin to an occupied territory, whatever that meant. In the debate on a fruit growing subsidy Bill, which offered a couple of million dollars for fruit growers, particularly in Tasmania but also elsewhere, the comment was made that the assistance will be of no benefit to the growers. 
In most of the arguments, whether composite or selective, regarding the financial and economic position of Tasmania some honourable members neglect to say that there are substantial and continuing benefits accruing under the findings of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. Lest there be any doubt about that being the case let me point this out in more detail. In doing so I do not for a moment suggest that Tasmania does not have some of the problems identified, and some of us in this place are doing our utmost to alleviate those from time to time if not always with total success. But we cannot put aside the obvious benefits which this system of the Grants Commission brings to Tasmania. Very early in its report - at the beginning of chapter 2 under the heading Inequalities among the States' - the Commonwealth Grants Commission has this to say: 
The economies of the Australian States differ from one another in ways which have an important bearing on the relative capacity of the several State governments to provide services for individuals and businesses. Among these differences are those of area, climate, topography, natural resources, size and distribution of population and productive capacity, and levels of income and expenditure. In addition, there are considerable differences among States in the average rate of economic growth, as reflected in the growth of population and output of goods and services. 
He would be a good man who could point to many areas of significance which were not contained by those headings. If, as I think most honourable members believe to be the case, the Commonwealth Grants Commission has examined and continues to examine in some detail all of the submissions made to it by the relevant States under those and other headings it would be hard to sustain the argument that the Commission and through it the Government are neglectful of the rights and rightful needs of a State such as Tasmania and, of course, not only Tasmania. The Commission goes on to state in paragraph 2.2: 
These differences among the economies of the States give rise to fiscal inequalities. In general the fiscal inequalities take the form of differences in relative capacity to raise revenue from State taxes and other charges, in the relative cost of providing State government services and meeting public debt charges, and in the budgetary impact of the operations of State business undertakings. In total, they may be described as differences in fiscal capacity. 
There are 2 or 3 more lines which I can quote to indicate the Commission's further thinking on the matter. The Commission states in paragraph 2.3: 
Interstate inequalities of fiscal capacity are not a transitory characteristic of the Australian federation. However, the relative positions of the States are subject to change and most forms of Commonwealth financial assistance are subject to periodic review. 
That is a most comprehensive outline of the Commission's conception of what it is about and of what factors it takes into consideration in regarding the applications by Tasmania and, at the present time, by South Australia and Queensland for Comwealth Government assistance in respect of their economies. The sorts of factors which it examines and outlines in its report include population, the work force - its distribution and structure, industry - its location and structure, income, expenditure, railways, social services, recent changes in economic conditions and costs of development. This is entirely merited and entirely responsible. I think the only ground upon which we could question the outcome of those deliberations is that the Commission is sufficiently competent to come  to the  right findings. As all honourable members know, the composition of the Commission is such and has been such that it is most unlikely that we could find a better form of representation to come to the sort of conclusions for which we are looking, that is to say, conclusions regarding how much should be given in grants and loans  to  the smaller States in the main to assist in their relative disadvantages which stem from their smallness of size and their inflexibility in various ways which is brought about by that smallness. 
To substantiate some of what I am saying and some of whatI do not have time to say I seek the permission of the House  to  incorporate a small table from page 23 of the report. It indicates the loan expenditure per capita on works and services for the year 1969-70 and the aggregate to the middle of that year. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="081131197210173_98_0.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. That table indicates that Tasmania in the year 1969-70 was in receipt of $116 odd per capita in net loan expenditure for that year. The next figure of $71 was for South 
Australia, and so the list goes down to New South Wales, the largest State, with a figure of approximately $42. This, of course, indicates the flow of things. It indicates a graduated compensation which is almost exactly related to size and is in inverse proportion, as it were, to the disadvantage which accrues from basic smallness of size and the relative advantage from the relatively large size both of population and of industry. I might say, incidentally, that the remarks of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  who is sitting at the table did not entirely escape my notice. I have some sympathy for the matter upon which he touched concerning the relative gambling propensities of the States and why they may or may not - he suggested they may not - be properly considered in relation to the adjustments as between the standard States and the claimant States such as Tasmania. 
I think I have an inherent sympathy for that point of view, although I can hardly avoid pointing out to the honourable member that in respect of Tasmania's more recent gambling propensities it in fact was the previous State Labor Government, by a subterfuge in a misleading referendum which did not approve what it was supposed to approve, that introduced the actuality of a gambling casino to that island. Of course, that has blossomed somewhat since then, and that Government, which has been returned to office 3 years later, is continuing with the matter then started. I do not canvass the relative merits of the casino. Some of us are on record concerning that matter on a previous occasion. However, I think the honourable member does have a decent point in relation to it. I think I would probably disagree with the comparison which he made between the relatively small amount of money involved in a further subsidy for meals provided under the Meals on Wheels system and the national income or some such very substantial figure. The point he was trying to make there slightly escaped me. While it may be valid in the terms in which he put it, I do not think I agree with him to the extent that I did concerning the desirability of considering gambling propensities in the economy of the States. 
My time is limited and I hope that my remarks will not take more than a few seconds longer. I draw attention also to table 5 on page 29 of the Commission's report which again indicates the Commonwealth's payments per capita in aid of State revenue for 1970-71. The table shows that for Tasmania the amount of $226 per head was received and the next highest figure was $181 for Western Australia. The Australian average or total was $134.45. This again makes the point which is often rebutted or asserted by my political opponents - they are largely in the State rather than the Federal sphere, although sometimes in both - that Tasmania does not benefit by Commonwealth expenditures of this kind. I seek leave also to incorporate that table, which is the counterpart of the loans matter, in Hansard. It is table 5 on page 29 of the Commonwealth Grants Commission report. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="081131197210173_99_4.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. One point I would make and which was questioned by the Government of Tasmania relates to 2-part grants; that is to say. the system whereby an advance grant is given and in a little more than a year later a budget is brought down in relation to that grant. There is a completion grant which adjusts that advance grant in retrospect and in relation to the correctness or otherwise of the assumptions made about the economy for the year, the result being, for example, that the advance grant for 1971-72 is accompanied by and adjusted by the completion grant for 1969- 70, which was 2 years previous. So there is a state of flux so far as the Government is concerned in waiting to know just what the final wash-up will be in relation to any one year. The arguments for and against that proposition are canvassed quite widely. The gist of what the Tasmanian Government had to say is contained in the Commission's report, and the Commission comes down in favour of the status quo in a modified form by saying that it is giving close attention and it will continue to give close attention to the proposition that the grant be made in one and that there be no future adjustments to a grant once made. The other States involved have not made quite the same submission as Tasmania. So, the situation remains as it is with an advance grant followed at some later stage by a completion grant. The result is that this year Tasmania has a grant of Si Om which is depleted by a completion grant of $2.4m, giving a final figure of $7.6m. I think we must bear with the Commission in its deliberations. It acknowledges that it has to sharpen its capacity to put its finger on the best possible figure for future prognostications. It is not yet in a position to do that as ably, it says, for South Australia and Queensland as it has for Tasmania and, therefore, it will not adopt a system which is not readily applicable to each of the claimant States. 
I say finally that the Commonwealth Grants Commission system is one which should never be overlooked by any Tasmanian and, for the time being, by any South Australian or Queenslander and, I suppose, by those in other States which, through their larger capacities, are contributing to the wellbeing of their smaller  brethren. This is a matter which is too easily forgotten. The Commission may be capable of further indulgence in respect of those smaller States and, speaking from the Tasmanian point of view, I say that we do indeed hope that that is so. But it is not fair and it is not real to set the Commission aside and co pretend that it does not exist when we talk about relative inequalities among States. 
Is the Minister for National Development aware of the uncommon reservoir of engineering and allied expertise contained in the Tasmanian HydroElectric Commission? Is he further aware that the nationally reputed programme of hydro-electric power development in Tasmania now has a foreseeable end. with a predictable consequential reduction within Tasmania of the associated professional employment? Will he investigate the possibility of putting some or all of this expertise to national use in a consultative or other appropriate capacity when the need arises? 
I want to speak to these Department of National Development estimates particularly in relation to the Tasmanian Hydro-Electric Commission. As you well know,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  this is one of the most substantial industrial and developmental undertakings operating in Australia, paralleled only by the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority. I want to touch on the resources of expertise and knowhow of a particular kind involved in this organisation and relating in that sense to a question which I asked the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  only this morning. It is the case that a great deal of the Tasmanian economy since the First World War has come to rely upon and relate to the Hydro-Electric Commission. The development of expertise in that institution has been such, as the Minister for National Development well knows, that its expertise has been drawn upon on numerous occasions by bodies such as the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority during its much later arrival on the developmental scene. I think that it is not generally known that the situation now is that unless bulk power using industries are attracted to Tasmania in a way which they have not been in the last few years this concentration of expertise, in the civil and electrical engineering fields notably, is in danger of running down. 
As I have said, the economy of Tasmania depends greatly upon the developments which are undertaken under the auspices of the Hydro-Electric Commission. Something like one-half of Tasmania's loan debt is in direct relation to hydro-electric works which have been undertaken over the years. Briefly, we have concentrated in the Tasmanian Hydro-Electric Commission about 160 professional civil engineers, about 100 electrical engineers and numerous technical and supporting staff making in all almost 5,000 people employed in the undertakings in which that instrumentality engages. The domestic and commercial load of electricity in Tasmania has been of the order of 175 megawatts. It has been increasing by an average of 6 per cent to 7 per cent annually, that is to say, of the order of 10 to 12 megawatts per annum. That is the equivalent, in thermal terms, of one Bell Bay thermal station added every 8 to iO years. That is 120 megawatts or so of electrical capacity. If that sort of development were to occur it would represent the spending of a couple of million dollars annually and about 60 per cent of it probably outside of Tasmania. 
As distinct from the development of further thermal stations constructed largely from imported materials and with a certain amount of imported expertise, the civil branch alone of the Tasmanian Hydro-Electric Commission has spent in recent times about $35m, nearly all of it in Tasmania. That amount includes expenditure not only on the civil construction works in relation to dams and water storage and hydro-electric power development as such, but also expenditure on roads for tourists and timber access and even acquisition, lt involves fishing developments, fire protection and a certain amount of intrastate decentralisation. In fact, as I said earlier, the failure to develop bulk power demands in the way in which they were developed during the interwar period and the immediate post-war period will have a very considerable impact on the economy of the State of Tasmania. It is for that reason - this is not at all evident at the moment - that large power users such as the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia, the Australian Newsprint Mills Ltd, Comalco Aluminium (Bell Bay) Ltd and Associated Puip and Paper Mills Ltd are to be duplicated, if at all, in large numbers. Unless that is done, as I said before, the Hydro-Electric Commission will tend to run down. 
It is for this reason that I draw the Minister's attention to the fact that this is, if not unique, indeed an unusual concentration of engineering expertise. In the same way as the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation has now entered into the field of overseas consultation by the nature of its initial functions, there is an excellent case to be made for us  to  look nationally towards the Tasmanian HydroElectric Commission to try to keep in operation, whether or not it is in Tasmania, as much of that accumulated expertise as possible. I repeat that it has been an organisation of a kind which in the past has lent itself to advising bodies such as the Snowy Mountains Authority at a time when that Authority was developing its own particular character and expertise. 
I think this is of considerable importance not only to Tasmania but also to Australia. Of course, it relates to this whole portfolio of national development, and I would like to make one or two points in that regard. I compliment the Minister on the review of natural resources which he gave us within the last week or two. It is well presented and it is comprehensive, but 1 would like to draw attention to the fact that it seems to cover the traditional fields of minerals, forests, water and energy - in other words, our natural resources. I wonder for how long the title of 'National Development' will be appropriate to the Department which the Minister has administered so well for some years past. In fact, it may be an appropriate time, since the Minister's retirement is pending and since the raising of this matter is no reflection on him, to raise the question of changing the name of the Department. We are dealing with Australia's natural resources, as the title on the front of the review indicates. 
Of course, our natural resources are not the only things involved in national development. We now have on the stocks a National Urban and Regional Development Authority in which is concentrated in one way or another more development than takes place outside the urban areas of the country. At the same time, again traditionally, national development does not include manufacturing industries. That is part and parcel of another portfolio and comes under the administration of another department. Because neatness and logic tend to commend themselves to me in describing things as accurately as possible, I wonder whether we may give some thought, in view of developments that are taking place on other fronts, to a more apt description such as the Department of Natural Resources or some better title that may be thought of. 
The Department has displayed quite concerted interest in basic and important matters, all of which are in the field of natural resources, whether they are replenishable or whether they are of the diminishing kind. Nevertheless, they are there in large profusion, and it is one of our great good fortunes in this country that their development in relation to other resources, not least our human resources, the interrelationship between the development of these resources and our physical and social environments, and their relationship in turn with our new found and developing interest in urban matters and in regional development, are totally unable to be divorced, even if we wanted to do so, from the other fields of interest which I have raised. 1 think it will become increasingly apparent that what in fact the Minister has been so well administering, what the Commonwealth has taken a continuing interest in, and what to some extent we still depend upon in the States for the definition of priorities - sometimes perhaps unfortunately - is in fact the department of natural resources. One of the greatest developers of those natural resources has been the Tasmanian Hydro-Electric Commission to which I devoted the greater part of my speech this afternoon. I hope that the Minister will take note of what  I  have said in that regard. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)   - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
With regret but without apology I want to concentrate my remarks on the problems of Tasmanian shipping. This is a matter which has been raised in this House on many occasions and most recently I think in any concerted way by me in the early hours of 25th May of this year when I related the problem in particular to the port of Hobart. It is a problem of considerable complexity which seems incapable of any simple solution and, of course, it is compounded and made less than clear by the varying interests in the matter. On the one hand, we have the several commercial interests of Tasmania seeking to achieve the most efficient services possible to the 4 or 5 major ports of the island and, on the other hand, we have notably the Australian National Line, and through it the Commonwealth Government, attempting to find solutions to what appears to be a fairly insoluble problem. The basis of the problem appears to lie in the fact that Tasmania is Australia's smallest State. It provides relatively small amounts of cargo from any one port. So in any economic sense -  and that of course must be related to the legislative provisions of the operation of the Australian National Line - it is difficult to provide the frequency and adequacy of service which any individual shipper might like to enjoy. 
At the same time people are aware in Tasmania that their State is an island and that it has no alternative forms of surface transport, notably rail, and that the inclinations of the Commonwealth on occasions to subsidise by loan or by grant several railways on the mainland continent of Australia can be seen by Tasmanians to be the direct equivalent of the subsidies which they would like to see accrue to shipping. Any disinclination by the Commonwealth to subsidise shipping in a thorough going way or in an obvious way is seen to be less than justice tor those who benefit from shipping in Tasmania, Of course the problem often lies in the fact that everybody benefits or does not benefit by the functions of shipping because most of the produce and material products which are distributed to Tasmanian consumers are imported either from Australia at large or from overseas through mainland Australia. 
In the inter-play between the various interests in this matter there is a great inclination to forget some of the facts. It would be less than justice, I think, not to draw attention to the fact that the Commonwealth has shown a continuing interest in the problems of Tasmanian shipping. With the encouragement and assistance of the Commonwealth Government the Australian National Line introduced into the Bass Strait trade the first drive-on vessels, now known as 'roll-on roll-off' vessels, in Australia and at that time, in 1959, the sea freights were reduced by 45 per cent, which is a pretty impressive operation for any commercial undertaking in the postwar period. That is a fact which is forgotten almost entirely in any discussion these days on Tasmania's shipping problems. 
Ultimately, the 45 per cent was progressively offset but it was not until 1970 or so that a 12i per cent increase in freight rates was approved and great was the noise with which that announcement was received. I and others participated in public discussions relating to that increase. However, more recently, as part of its continuing efforts to contain freight increases, the Australian National Line has taken steps to rationalise its services to Tasmania. This action was taken in the light of increases in costs in Tasmanian trade. From the end of March until the end of December last year costs in that trade increased by $1.8m. Since the beginning of this year additional cost increases have approximated Sim and in August, a couple of months ago. freight schedules were restructured. At the beginning of this month passenger fares were increased. These recent alterations are expected to increase receipts by about $300,000 per annum. 
In addition to those developments there are special provisions made by the ANL which exclude dense cargo such as aluminium, zinc concentrates and green timber from the recent freight increases. Taking those things and some others into account it would only be reasonable to suggest that the ANL or perhaps the Government operating through it is very much aware of Tasmania's shipping problems. Nevertheless the situation remains that individual shippers tend to be inadequately served or at least believe that they are less than optimally served and some of that difficulty may lie in the fact that Tasmania is decentralised to a degree that no other Australian State is. lt may well be - in fact I think one should argue that it should be - that with our now developing interest in urban and regional development the situation which has so far proved disadvantageous to Tasmania, the division of its total imports and exports among several viable ports as distinct from operations in other States whereby every State is dominated by one port, whether it be Sydney, Melbourne, 
Adelaide or somewhere else, should be taken into specific account in our developing interests in decentralisation. But even if that were so it seems to me a little difficult to foresee a position in which all shippers will be happy with the Tasmanian shipping situation, not least because even though the economic situation may be shored up as best as possible or adapted to current circumstances we are still left with the position whereby a mere handful or may be 2 handfuls of stewards can practically invalidate, make non-operative or nullify the best attempts economically to serve Tasmania with shipping. 
Perhaps, as I see it anyway, the best answer lies in Tasmania's attempting to establish its own line and that, I think, is a proposition which would be received sympathetically by the Commonwealth Government, either by means of loans or grants. I think there are one or two precedents which suggest that I could be right in that respect. I think the Tasmanian Government, once having initiated its own shipping line, would probably quickly find the problems associated with manning rates, wage rates and industrial problems associated with the manning of ships. Nevertheless there may be some advantage in transferring the problems from the Commonwealth to the State in the sense that if the operatives were directly beholden to the State they may find themselves having a much more specific interest in the economic wellbeing of Tasmania than people coming from mainland States or elsewhere would have. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
It is pathetic, it is pitiful and it is horrifying to think that those honourable members opposite who have so far spoken in this debate and on the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  which preceded the introduction of this Bill a fewweeks ago, should have any possibility of having in their hands the implementation of a policy of such fundamental importance as that embraced by this Bill. They have on other occasions, on at least a couple of matters of public importance relating to regionalism, exposed their ignorance, but they have never done as well as they have done tonight and this afternoon. They have no comprehension of the comlexities involved in attracting people away from large centres of population. They shift their ground constantly, most notably the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  He moves from one facet of urbanism to ruralism and back again. In one month he is decrying the congestion, real and imagined, of Sydney or Melbourne, in the next moment he is talking about the miraculous achievements of Canberra, and a few months later he discovers a traffic problem and thinks that maybe Canberra is not quite so good after all and maybe we should not have 'Canberras' all over the country, and so it goes on. If you were to read his speeches seriatim you would be left totally and absolutely floundering in this fundamental matter of the population distribution of Australia, whether it be in an urbanised or non-urbanised form. Even this afternoon we had within a few minutes of one another the honourable member for Reid speaking about haste, about the insufficient time for preparation which this Bill represents, and a few minutes later the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  berated us, particularly the Prime Minister, for having declined to make a positive acquiescence to his question concerning whether or not the Commonwealth will back the designated New South Wales State centre of BathurstOrange. 
At other times and on other issues members of the Opposition are only too happy to accuse this Government of ad hockery, of not working to a plan, of doing things when they arise and under pressure. They have failed totally to comprehend the significance of this legislation. It is broad legislation which sets the mechanism for the development of the National Urban and Regional Development Authority which will have, according to clause 12 in the Bill, the power to investigate, and from time to time report to the Minister on, matters relating to urban or regional development. That clause goes on to say: 
for the purpose of assisting the Government of the Commonwealth in the consideration by the Government of the grant of financial assistance by the Parliament to a State in connection with urban or regional development, including the terms and conditions on which that assistance might be granted by the Parliament; and 
in so far as those matters relate to any matter with respect to which the Parliament has power to make laws. 
How much more broadly could one enfranchise a new body to carry out its tasks? 
On the one hand we have, the Opposition which would set up commissions and centralised organisations right, left and centre in social services, education and all sorts of fields. On the other hand the Opposition criticises us for setting up an authority which shall recommend to the Government so that the Government may make, as it properly should, decisions in a area of fundamental importance. What the Opposition wants is beyond my comprehension. The honourable member for Macquarie went on to say that the Commonwealth should look at the broad national picture in relation to resources and so on. I could not agree more. If he cares to read 4 simple sentences which once upon a time were would-be terms of reference for an investigation into this whole field - and I wish this would still happen although what is being propounded at the moment is, in my opinion, a very good second best - and pay attention to what some people have done in 20 years or so of reading in the field, he might find that the Opposition is not on that issue, in any sort of holts with honourable members on this side of the House. 
What we. arc talking about here is a strategy in the broadest sense, a framework which shall be set up and on which shall be developed as properly as possible the results of investigations conducted by  Sir John  Overall and whatever battery of expertise he. is able to gather around him for the purpose. It is not confined to honourable members opposite to speak prematurely on these matters. More locally, I note that the  president  of the Hobart Chamber of Commerce made only a week or so ago statements which I believe to be, premature in relation to the fact that this Authority, that this legislation and that this intent of the Government will have nothing in them for an area like Tasmania. I understand his problems but before we even legislate for the operation J can only regard it as premature to criticise what has not yet been outlined in complete detail. 
The honourable member for Reid says in his capacity as shadow Minister for urban affairs :hat the would-be government, the Australian Labor Party, would set up a department of urban affairs. He has an amendment to show us, ironically it seems to me, that the body proposed in this legislation would not be good enough. He says in his form of amendment that it is a body which will have no authority to do various things such as cope with problems of urban and regional development, deal with the growth and so on. There is no authority whatsoever to say that this body will not do that. He can in no way substantiate that until such time, as he finds out that it is incapable of doing it. Why should it be that a department of urban affair can any better do the sorts of things and recommend the sorts of things that the National Urban and Regional Development Authority can do? After all they would be using the same or decidedly similar people to investigate and implement the policies which are decided upon. 
We heard this afternoon, and just now from the honourable member for Riverina, that 23 years have passed during the term of office of successive Liberal governments and nothing has happened in this department. If he goes around any honourable member on that side and finds one who had any idea about this matter 23, 13 and probably even 3 and certainly 4 years ago then he will be doing exceedingly well. It is irrelevant to the issue that Sydney and Melbourne were not seen by anybody 23 years ago to be dens of iniquity, with problems of congestion and all these other alleged problems. They are not megalopolises, as one other honourable member opposite maintains. Whoever saw Sydney and Melbourne to be Commonwealth responsibilities? How often have honourable members opposite said that to the States while they shared political platforms with State members? Whoever thought that the Commonwealth owned Sydney or Melbourne or for that matter any other capital city? But it is true that there are problems of a duplicating nature which can be found in any large centres around the world, notably in the Western world where traffic is one of the base problems. It is the intent of this Government to set up a plan and a strategy whereby the matter can be attended to. 
The honourable member for Reid reeled off a list of matters which we might give some attention to. They include population, transport, land use, conservation and natural resources. These must be considered, he says. He has shown by so doing that he does not understand what regionalism is all about. This is the second barrel of the Urban and Regional Development Authority. How can anybody ever develop a region with a certain community of interest - various definitions are accorded to it - which usually focuses on one particular centre and therefore becomes a nodal region? How can it ever be developed or be understood without taking into account all those matters and others? They are in fact the geographical entity which a region constitutes. I can only advise, with the utmost subtlety, that some honourable members opposite might shut themselves up in a room with a small library of books on urban economics or urban geography and try to understand the meaning of some of the terms which they are so happy to drop off; otherwise we will spend endless hours debating in this House matters which very few people are familiar with or at least understand. 
My time in this debate is severely limited. I have undertaken to leave time to allow for other speakers tonight. Let me take up just 2 or 3 more points. The honourable member for Reid speaks ad infinitum and incessantly of over-development in Sydney. He draws particular attention to Commonwealth Government office buildings in that area. In some senses it is appropriate to draw attention to that, but some day he will define for this House what he means by 'over-development'. He will show whether or not he recognises that the capital cities of this country - Sydney, Melbourne or the smaller ones - are undoubtedly the most vital entities in Australia. The economy and development of this country since 1788 have been dependent upon the formation of those 6, or now 7 if you like, capital cities. So to go in for the big knock which suggests that all we have is over-development, congestion, pollution and what-have-you is unrealistic, even though one can piously join with honourable members opposite and even realistically join with them in wanting to solve those problems. But concern will not be enough. A proper appreciation of the problems is what is required and one would have thought that people so hellbent as honourable members opposite have been for some 3 years to do things to solve these problems would not wish to move an amendment which would, if accepted, immediately stop the formation of the first authority to be proposed in any real sense to deal with the problem. 
The honourable member for Reid went on to talk about our over-expanding centres. 
What does he mean by 'over-expanding centres'? He is the man who in the next breath wants to give away land at the periphery and how better to over-expand any centre than to give away land rather than to charge for it? He does not even touch on the question of variable densities, medium density development interlocked with high rise development or low density development. We can discuss it at meeting after meeting, as happened at the Australian Institute of Urban Studies and at a conference on the provision of housing for low income groups held in Adelaide some months ago. But never does he get round to the question of variable and mixed densities as a solution to the problem. So the chaos about which he speaks, notably about Sydney and Melbourne, giving rise to congestion and people who want to flock or do not want to flock to rural areas is all in his mind. Of course there is traffic congestion. But if in fact he wants to get people into the country the best thing he can possibly do - and I am not advocating it - is to let the streets gum up, because people will then have a reason for going to the country. 
Why does the honourable member think that they are in the cities? It is because the forces of agglomeration, of economic agglomeration particularly, and of social agglomeration are such that people have been attracted to these places. No-one has forced them to go there. Why does the honourable member think they have left the rural economies? It is for the simple reason that the forces of agglomeration are present. They are the things which we have to refute and rebut and put back if this policy is to be successful. It will be successful only with very very considerable difficulty and probably with considerable concentration of effort. But it will not happen unless we understand the degree of the forces we are working against. We have intent to do that. That is the most important thing in relation to this Bill - the intent to change the pattern or vary the pattern or stop over-emphasis on these things. 
I have undertaken to sit down early and ] will proceed to do so. But may I make a final plea that people on both sides of the chamber attempt to explore every possibility to apprise themselves of  what  this thing is about. We truly have tossed off words like 'decentralisation' for 50 years or so without knowing that it cannot operate unless we understand the forces of urbanisation from which it must stem. That is what we have to do in the very first instance here. I believe that the authority that we are proposing to set up tonight is the best means at the moment for doing that. It needs the co-operation of members opposite, not their knocking, even though I concede that they have good will in what they want to do. But they must understand the complexities of what it is we are trying to do, and then go along with us. 
I wish to deal with the autonomy of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, which has been subject to recent public criticism and debate. I believe I can speak with some confidence on this subject for the reason that I have defended the ABC on more occasions than I have criticised it. Those who criticise members of the Government for having anything to say about the operations of the ABC make certain untenable basic assumptions. Firstly, they assume that the administration, staff and activities of the Commission should be beyond criticism. Secondly, they assume that all employees of the ABC are politically neutral. Thirdly, they assume that all criticism is politically biased. I do not have a brief for any politician who cannot give a reasonable account of himself in a television interview on neutral ground. What is of more concern to me is the neutrality or otherwise of the context in which the politician, or for that matter the non-politician, is presented. 
Those who allege interference by this Government in the operations of the ABC must wilfully set aside the record of the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme),  who is soon to retire. Time after time since I entered the Parliament I have heard him answer questions from both sides of the House in which he unwaveringly maintained that the ABC is an autonomous institution and that the nature of its programmes is the concern of ABC management, not of the Government. On more than one occasion I have refrained from asking a question after what appeared to me to be a quite blatant exposure of philosophies opposed to the Government's and, I believe, opposed to the best interests of the Australian people, in view of his comment that the Commission is responsible for its own programmes. The propaganda tour of Han Suyin is a case in point. 
Once we assume that all employees of the ABC are not political neuters, it becomes imperative that those who are responsible for the selection and presentation of news and views should be seen to be unbiased. Once they show a political hand or display more interest in the outcome than in the subject matter, their position in current affairs becomes untenable. This view is reflected in the ABC's own guidelines for the treatment of current affairs, which have in part been put on record in my speech on this same subject on 10th May last. 
If anybody questions my assumption that all ABC operatives are not neutral, they need only consider that the ABC continues to produce candidates for political office, including 3 from the Hobart area in less than 3 years; 2 of whom are identified with the Australian Labor Party and one with the Australia Party. One of these, the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry),  has recently claimed on radio that the good audience ratings of programmes such as AM and PM prove their political neutrality. Although I do not at this time question those programmes on political grounds, their popularity proves nothing in regard to partisanship. What is more important than the distribution of political views actually presented on radio or on television is the material, the people, and the political views not presented. These are unknown to the public at large, few of whom have such a persistent or knowledgeable interest in political or current affairs to be more than occasionally aware of the missing links. The selective processes may also favour important areas over less important ones. Thus a pertinent comment on a topical issue made from Hobart is lucky to gain preference over comment on the same subject made from Sydney or Melbourne. 
The most recent comment related to the ABC's autonomy has concerned whether the autonomy applies to the staff rather than the management. When I- involved myself in the issues raised by the resignations of staff members of the Tasmanian This Day Tonight' programme, over the continued employment of an executive producer with publicly advertised political commitment, I spoke to people in ABC management and received courteous and intelligent assistance. Their interpretations were in accord with the Commission's own rules and policies. Their consequent instructions, however, were = reported with sufficient lack of balance for it to become necessary for me to make additional comment. The situation now is that the gentleman who transgressed the ABC's stated policy in relation to current affairs, still operates as executive producer of the programme, while those who- resigned in accord with those principles and who did not reapply for the vacancies so created for precisely the same reason continue to be employed at significantly less salary than they received before resigning in accord with management principles. So much for those who complain about Government interference in the workings of the ABC. 
Furthermore, my intervention on clearly stated grounds of principle was assiduously interpreted to an ABC staff meeting as being motivated by the desire- to compromise or undermine the position of the Australia Party candidate for the forthcoming Federal election in Denison, who like the member for Franklin some years ago, is an ABC news reader. I can assure those who found it expedient to run this line that principles are a good deal more important to me than challenges offered by political opponents, whether ABC hews readers or not. I did not spend an estimated year of my life working on one of the more celebrated public controversies in Australia not to be able to recognise a principle when I see it. 
The honourable member for Franklin has asserted that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has laid down guidelines for his appearances on ABC programmes. Whether that is so or not - neither of us knows - I seem to remember that the leader of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, despite his greater familiarity with the television screen than any practising politician, recently made stipulations about his interviews on ABC programmes. More importantly, I have heard from certain ABC staff members - not in Hobart - that some of their colleagues in current affairs programmes currently seek to embarrass the Government when possible. The main result of that interest is probably the administrative restriction of expenditure on current affairs programmes  below a level which might otherwise obtain. The distant offices probably suffer most. Any interplay which exists between the Australian Broadcasting Commission and politicians is not one way traffic. It is important to me, to this House and to the public that the game be played fairly; that is to say, on issues not ideologies. 
This Bill concerns the concentration of authority and negotiating power of exporters under the auspices of one body. It concerns the concentration of authority or bargaining power as distinct from the fragmentation of that authority or power. I find it somewhat surprising that members of the Opposition, including the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  cannot place any faith in this legislation. It is true, of course, that, as with a great deal of other legislation, a lot depends on the intent of the Bill and the efficiency with which that intent is ca  Tied  into effect. Were the Bill not to be implemented effectively it is true that they could rightly say that it is ineffective. However, there is no reason at this stage to put that sort of connotation upon it. We do have some evidence that the remedy of diversification of authority and fragmentation of operation is something to be achieved in the interests of industry, in particular the export industry; for example, the recent somewhat belated - it was very nearly too late, though one hopes it was not - development of the fresh fruit shippers from Tasmania so that now we have the situation where shippers have concentrated their forces under one company now known as Tasfruit Pty Ltd. 
In the current annual report of the Australian Apple and Pear Board we find that it is hoped that the rationalisation and improvements made in the shipping of apples and pears from Australia may have saved freight and associated costs in this last season to the tune of $lm. It would need only a similar kind of success through collaboration, amalgamation and concentration of negotiating power in the Australian Shippers Council to give more than a little hope that the same sort of achievement might be possible in relation to the shipping companies and the export trade in various goods from Australia. Members of the Opposition have had a great deal to say in the several preceding speeches today about possible alternatives and the apparent shortcomings of the Bill. It has been said both inside and outside this House that this legislation can be seen as a paper tiger. Those allegations need to be tested. My understanding is that if the provisions of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act were not carried into effect we might indeed correctly refer to the legislation as a paper tiger. *  i 
If the shipping companies were to continue to refuse to table relevant information which would enable the exporters or their representatives to determine reasonable freight rates for particular commodities, this legislation might be rendered ineffective. It would certainly be less effective than we would hope it to be. I draw the Minister's attention to that expression of opinion which I believe is current in the industry. From my reading - and I am reinforced by the legal opinion of my colleague the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  - the amendment we are discussing makes it possible for the Minister to operate through the designated body to determine what relevant information should be brought forward by the shipping companies, and to see that the relevant information is provided and can be taken into account. The designated shipper body referred to in section 116 of the Principal Act and in clause 5 of this Bill is the shipper body designated by the Minister. To all intents and purposes it will be the Australian Shippers Council. It is hoped that in respect of the matters I have mentioned that single authority will have the capacity, will and ability to bring forward freight rates of a kind which will ensure the continued export of goods from Australia on a competitive basis. 
I draw attention to what the Minister had to say. Paraphrasing him a little, he referred to overcoming the difficulties which militated against the formation of separate shipper bodies in each trade. He said that the existing legislative provisions will allow a nationally constituted Australian Shippers Council to be the one designated body for negotiations in all trades. In another part of his speech the Minister said that that should obviate some of the problems, which I will not now reiterate, associated with individual and particular interests operating on their own behalf and operating sometimes to the benefit of major exporters, perhaps setting aside the interests of minor shippers. 
Honourable members opposite have had a great deal to say about what might be wrong with this legislation and what alternative action could be taken. The honourable member for Cunningham said that we are dealing with cartels of ship owners who are by definition congregated to work in their own best interests and, he assumed, perhaps in the worst interests of Australian exporters. While that may have been true from time to time, and because of increasing freight rates at present might even be alleged to be the case now, so far as i know the annual accounts of most shipping companies operating internationally are a good way from the position he suggests of a highly selfinterested cartel operation which is holding everybody outside its organisation to ransom. The world shipping situation has not been particularly healthy since about 1956, at the time of the closure of the Suez Canal. There have been fluctuations, a temporary overbuilding in the tanker industry, a catching up with the situation and then a repetition of the overbuilding. With the permanent closure of the Suez Canal the section of the shipping industry involved knows better where it is placed. It conducts all its trade around the Cape of Good Hope rather than by alternative routes through the Middle East, Suez Canal and so on. 
The trawler section of the shipping industry has not been happy. Numbers of ships have been laid up around the world and my understanding is that the liner section of the trade, as distinct from the carriage of bulk cargoes in ships of badly defined lineage and quite poor state compared with the more highly developed liners, has been more affected by constantly and rapidly increasing stevedoring costs, together with constantly and rapidly increasing shipbuilding costs, lt is necessary to be very selective in dealing with the shipping industry, whether it is in relation to passengers or one form or other of freights, to find anything which could reasonably he alleged to be a high rate of return on investment. It is necessary to bear in mind that most shipping lines of any consequence have very high capitalisation and need a very significant return on capital to make them appear to an independent outsider to be a reasonable form of investment. I think that such an examination would show the position to be a long way from the allegations and implications of the honourable member for Cunningham about the shipping industry. But that is not really our present concern. Our concern should be for the exporters. The legislation relates to ensuring that cartel inclined shipping lines will not be able to hold the exporters of this country to ransom. 
Honourable members opposite expressed a touching faith in the possible extension and expansion of the Australian National Line. That is heartening for the ANL, but as the honourable member fo Mcpherson  (Mr Barnes),  a former Minister for External Territories, pointed out, there is very little precedent in the operations of the ANL to suggest that its proliferation into other fields would bring great hope and joy to Australian exporters. If the contrary turned out to be the case, well and good, but there is little to expect in that direction at present. Acting against the hopes for the ANL are the activities of seamen and various associated persons such as stewards and stevedores. Over the years in varying degrees they have held the people of this country to ransom, not least the people of Tasmania who are so dependent upon shipping, both interstate and overseas. 
The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  and one or two other Opposition members have mentioned already that this Government in their view is a low profile Government, subservient to other interests. 1 would not have thought at the time when the House debated the mass of amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act only a few months ago and this Government and its members contested the right of the Government to involve itself in conciliation and arbitration in the public interest that the Government was being subservient to anybody. If you recall,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  honourable members opposite were at some pains to contradict our intent and our belief that we could involve ourselves in the public interest. They suggested that negotiations between employers and employees would leave them quite happy. This was precisely what we were not happy about then and what we are not happy about now. We are most interested to see that the public - for example, the public of Tasmania - is properly catered for in shipping matters which relate to its public interest. 
At the present time, the major single exporting sector of Tasmanian industry, that is to say, the export of fresh fruits, is not falling within the province of the Australian Shippers Council. Charter negotiations are being conducted. I believe that the requirements of the 1973 season are just about catered for by negotiations at the present time. Tasmanian exporters, despite the very considerable improvement which appears tohave been made through the concentrating of exporting interests in Tasfruit Pty Ltd, face a situation in which approximately 60 per cent of the value of their product must meet freight costs. That is an enormous proportion of their total potential return. Their investment and return fell heavily in one economic area, hence the very basic importance of freight rates. 
What I must reiterate in that portion of my time that I wish to use is that the intention of this legislation is to concentrate exporter interests under one body. It will have not only a permanent staff by which continuity and all that goes with permanency are possible but also, as described by the Minister, comprehensive research facilities. One imagines - indeed, one presumes - that it will be possible for the staff of the Australian Shippers Council to look in more detail now than hitherto at the question of freight rates and other associated matters and at what, in a certain circumstance, in relation to a particular product, at a particular time, in respect of volume to be shipped and so on, will be a reasonable thing. If the Council is not provided with a better bargaining base in relation to the shipping companies, whether they be cartels or otherwise, something indeed is wrong with the execution of the proposition which seems to me to be entirely admirable. 
I do not wish to see out my full time in this debate. Others wish to participate in the discussion of this and other Bills. I support the Minister in this amendment of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act. I reiterate however, and draw the attention of the Minister to the fact, thatI think the onus is on us and on the body with which we are dealing here to see that the situation is not one in which a paper tiger operates but that the tiger gets teeth very quickly so that the letter and the spirit of the legislation is carried out by the Australian Shippers Council to the general good of Australian exporters at large and, as far as I am concerned, Tasmania in particular. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. I refer to recent public concern over the possible environmental effects of Concorde aircraft flights were they to be made over the Australian continent. Is the honourable gentleman aware that flights could be made between Sydney or Melbourne and London entirely over water by following a great circle route over Antarctica and to the east of South America? In case the Minister foresees landing difficulties between Australia and Rio, I ask him whether he will explore the possibilities of Marie Byrd Land, where the Little America base already receives considerable traffic. 
My colleague the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  has drawn attention to the fascinating grouping of clients of Southwood Press. I believe the story would not be complete without some reference to the shareholders of that interesting company. The shareholders of Southwood Press, who might of course be dummies, make an interesting line-up. Southwood Press Pty Ltd, incorporated as a company in New South Wales on 28th February 1966, has a nominal capital of $10,000 divided into 300 A class shares with full voting rights and 4,700 ordinary or B class shares. The number of issued shares valued at $2 each is 2,989, comprising 298 A class shares and 2,691 B class or ordinary shares. It would seem that a family by the name of Barnes has control. Between them they hold 201 of the 298 issued A class shares and 1,814 of the 2,691 B class shares. 
These people are: Roger William Ashton Barnes, aged 36, who holds 75 A and 675 B shares. Barnes is regarded as a Trotskyist Communist who has been active in the Australian Labor Party Youth Movement. Sylvia Phyllis Hale, 30, who authorises pamphlets for the Women's Liberation 'Front' is the wife of Roger Barnes. She holds 75 A and 675 B shares.  Mrs Barnes,  or Sylvia Hale as she is perhaps better known, is a school teacher who has been active in the 'Progressive Left' and is also a Trotskyite. Velda Constance Baxter, 64, mother of Roger Barnes, holds 20 A and 180 B shares. Velda A. Stadnik, 34, who would appear to be a sister of Roger Barnes, holds 31 A and 284 B shares. 
Other shareholders of this interesting printery are Guido Carlo Luigi and Ethel Victoria Barrachi. Between them they hold 5 A class and 49 B shares. Luigi, 85, a retired - need I hardly say - school teacher, has been associated with the Australian Communist Party almost from its beginning. John Michael Cassidy, 31, of St Kilda, Melbourne, holds 13 A and 117 B class shares. He is well known in Mel bourne as a Trotskyist demonstrator. Alison Edith Mclntyre, 29, holds 5 A and 45 B shares. She has been associated with a front known as the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament. Graham Cecil Hackett, 29, holds 16 A and 144 B shares. Hackett, another school teacher, is also a Trotskyist and a former member of the Communist Eureka Youth League. He was president of the Sydney University Labor Club in 1968. Helen Hackett, 28, wife of Graham Hackett, another school teacher, is also believed to be a Trotskyist. She holds 6A and 54 B shares. Anthony James Kelly, 28, holds 20 A and 180 B shares. Kelly's name appears on quite a few pieces of printing from Steam Mill Street as the authoriser. It is thought he was formerly in the Eureka Youth League and is associated now with the Socialist Youth Alliance, as the Eureka Youth League is called nowadays. Craig Rob Roy McGregor, 39, holds 2 A and 18 B shares. McGregor, believed to be a journalist, has been associated with the Association for International Co-Operation and Disarmament, a communist front. These shareholders together account for 268 A and 2,421 B shares, which leaves only 30 A and 270 B shares out of the total number which I originally mentioned. Another shareholder is Robert Webb of Camberwell, Victoria. He appears to be the father of Rodney Arthur Webb, an active member of the Socialist Youth Alliance. 
In the light of what the. honourable member for Warringah had to say this is an interesting rundown of the owners, or at least a very great part of the owners, of this printery which prints so many and varied things for such an interesting collection of political and similar groups. The political ideology or ideologies of the shareholders, whether or not they are dummies, is clearly apparent from what I have had to say. It is interesting therefore to see how they attract so much business for printing from the. Labor Party, the Australia Party and the Council for the Defence of Government Schools. 
