Is the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs aware that during a powerful Press campaign to induce Australia to sign the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty it was freely stated in the Australian Press that certain top officials of the Department of External Affairs had decided that Australia should sign the Treaty and for a long period had pressed the Government to do so? Was this true? If it was true, was it a leakage from the Cabinet or the Department of External Affairs? If it was untrue, why was it not denied? Would the Government agree that it would be most improper for the chief officers of any department at any time to operate a Press campaign for the purpose of influencing government policy? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. What were the reasons for the action taken by Cabinet in disregarding the decision of the Senate against lifting the ban on the export of merino rams and permitting their export? 
I address a question to the Minister for Air. What changes have been made by the Government in the rule formerly effective that Ministers and party leaders could not be accompanied in VIP planes by private members of Parliament? 
I am in complete sympathy with  Senator Murphy's  suggestion that we have a look at the sitting hours. I am not quite sure whether we are in a position to do this as rapidly as he suggests. The ideal way, of course, would be for this to be done in co-operation with people from the other House. I think all of us who have been here for any length of time - I have been here 101 years - will know that on a number of occasions people have expressed the wish that we could order our sitting hours much better than we do. I have heard many people complaining about the hours, but it seems to me that we have gone on because it is the custom, it has been happening for years, and nobody has really felt inclined to bell the cat properly on this. I think it would be an excellent thing if action were taken. I would like action to be taken in collaboration with the other House. 
If the Senate could not get the other House to co-operate, well, this is an independent Senate and is qualified to make decisions for itself. I am not too sure about our final attitude to a 5-day sitting week, because I have not had a chance to consult the other members of my Party, but it seems to me that a 5-day week might be a bit rough. I would be in complete sympathy with a proposal for 4 days, but I would like to think over the 5-day proposition. I do think that  Senator Murphy  has done a service in raising this matter, and I hope that it will be carried further. 
-I think that most honourable senators heard the Governor-General's Speech with a feeling of relief. We have been so much criticised because Parliament has been inactive that we must have felt relief that we were faced with a programme of legislation which probably will keep us going hard until the end of May. That Speech contained quite a number of attractive proposals, but our objection to the Speech is that we do not think it dealt adequately with certain questions of principle on which my Party thinks deeply. For that reason, I move: 
At end of motion add: but the Senate deplores the, failure of the Government to include in its programme - 
an adequate statement on Australian 
Foreign Policy; 
a comprehensive programme to rehabilitate Primary Industry; 
a plan mutually acceptable to the Commonweatlh and the States for the equitable distribution of national revenue; 
adequate measures to promote family life, particularly in the fields of child endowment, maternity ' allowances and education; and 
provision for a contributory National Insurance plan'. 
Dealing with the first of these proposals, let me say that I was intensely disappointed at the failure of the Governor-General's Speech to deal adequately with the questions of foreign policy which are particularly close to our hearts. I have heard it said that one of the duties of the Foreign Minister was to keep his opponents, his prospective enemies, guessing. No Australian Government has been more successful than the present one in keeping its potential enemies guessing about its foreign policy, but I would go further and say that no Australian Government has been more effective in keeping everybody guessing about its foreign policy. If I am called upon to give some examples, allow me to quote this gem from the Governor-General's Speech dealing with the possible withdrawals of American forces from Vietnam: 
Should the future situation permit a further substantial withdrawal of troops - beyond those announced by  President  Nixon on 16th December 1969 - then in consultation with the Government of the Republic of Vietnam and the Government of the United States, some Australian troops will be included, at some stage, in the numbers scheduled for such withdrawal. 
I do not know if that statement has anybody else in a fog, but it certainly has mc in one. I can remember the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  saying with considerable eloquence during the election campaign that a Labor government would do certain things in regard to foreign policy which would make it most dangerous to elect such a government. If one examines that speech one finds that the Prime Minister said that a Labor government must not be elected because it would sign the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. The Prime Minister in his election campaign said this: 'We shall not sign the Treaty until we are sure that it is an effective treaty, that it provides protection to its signatories and that Australia's security in the future is not endangered'. The Treaty today is the same Treaty as when the Prime Minister uttered those words. 
The Prime Minister said 'signed'. He did not say 'ratified'. He gave a categorical promise to the Australian people that he would not sign the Treaty until all those effective provisions were included in it. Having made that promise to the Australian people the Government has proceeded to break it. I feel some sympathy with the Prime Minister in this respect. 1 feel he would have preferred not to sign the Treaty, but- 
How would you know what happens in your Caucus? The Prime Minister succumbed to pressure from the new Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon),  he succumbed to pressure from leading personalities in the Department of External Affairs who mounted their own Press campaign to twist the Government's arm, he succumbed to pressure from the United States and he succumbed to pressure from certain people who describe themselves as left wing. For years these people have been saying that Australia must not slavishly follow America. They have said that Australia must not go all the way with LBJ, and having said that for years they are now saying that Australia has to sign the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and do away with the national service system because America has done away with it. I feel some sympathy for the Government in this respect. 
Foreign policy for a country like Australia, in the times we live in, is not easy. Policies have been enunciated by  President  Nixon on which differing interpretations are given almost from day to day. The British Government is determined to withdraw from the East. If figures mean anything, that Government faces inevitable defeat and it will be replaced by a government which assures us that Britain will retain a presence in the East. Under those circumstances it is not easy to set out a foreign policy for the future. But surely Australia should be able to decide definitely on whom it is going to rely. It used to rely on Britain - and she may be gone, and she may come back. Australia relies - and the best prospect, I think, is to rely - on the United States. But some people in the Department of External Affairs have said thai Australia ought to rely on the Soviet Union. 1 do not think one will hear much more about that, as a result of the last election. Other individuals are saying that Australia should rely on a rearming Japan. 
We are told the Government favours forward defence, and it initiates measures which, if they mean anything, appear to me to mean that they are preparing to get out. The Government has announced that Australia is going to take certain defensive measures in Western Australia, but has it done anything in the direction of collective defence arrangements? Has it done anything in regard to a collective foreign policy with countries around the Indian Ocean? I ask: What about the Pacific islands? The sea routes of the Pacific islands are vital to us. Big things are happening. In the Pacific islands area a number of countries are becoming independent and they are being wooed by other countries. Is Australia doing anything? Has it any policy? The Government has been repeatedly criticised in the Press because it has no policy in regard to that area. Australia seems to be groping all the time. That is one reason for my disappointment with that section of the Governor-General's Speech. 
Now I want to turn to what is going to be a big issue this year - primary industry. Let nobody be mistaken. 1 live in one of the most prosperous and fertile States of the Commonwealth. I have never seen more resentment and more ill will than exists at the present time amongst the primary producers of that State. This has been shown in demonstrations at places like Edenhope, Hamilton and Warrnambool. This unrest has spread to New South Wales. The other day J attended a meeting at Jerilderie which started at 1 o'clock and ended at 6 o'clock. There were between 1,500 and 2,000 farmers there. Farmers would not go to a meeting like that unless they felt pretty strongly about the position in their industry. There are to be other meetings in places like Ballarat. The farmers have organised - something which is foreign to their usual practice - a march on Parliament House for the end of this month. Nobody need be surprised that that can happen when there is a rise of 3% in farm costs and a depression in farm produce prices of 3% within a comparatively short period. The situation exists in Australia where people who know more about primary production than 1 do tell me that the meat and tobacco industries seem to have reasonable prospects but practically all other primary industries are in trouble. 
I do not want to speak airily. 1 want to give facts as they are presented to me. The movement of farmers in Victoria began at Edenhope and they have issued figures as to the reason why they have taken action. For a start, let me say that this is an area which suffered considerably in the recent drought.  Mr E.  G. Garth, the taxation accountant in the town, has been the organiser of the movement He states that the Kowree Shire is the sixth largest shire in Victoria, the second biggest producer of wool in the State, has the second highest number of sheep and lambs in the State - nearly 2 million - and has a total occupied area of I million acres, of which only 92,000 remain unimproved, it also produces 2,600,000 bushels of wheat, oats and barley, plus beef, dairy cattle, small seeds, dried fruits, fodder and fat lambs.  Mr Garth  gave the results of a survey of thirty farms. This was a random survey and not a choice of hard core cases. He said that the average area of the farms was 892 acres, and the average liability was $28,400, with an average rate of increase of debt over 3 years of $3,645 per annum. 
So  Mr Garth  says. The average reduction of debt over the same period was $325 per annum, giving a net debt increase of $3,000 per annum. These amounts did not include indirect finance made available by credit from local traders, private loans and hire purchase. A further selection of 600 farmers showed that nearly 300 had net incomes over the past 3 years of less than the Australian minimum wage. There are 906 farms in the shire, and the survey showed that nearly 50% brought in net incomes of less than the basic wage. Referring to the position of the towns  Mr Garth  pointed out that, because a shrinkage in farm incomes has disastrous effects in local business, in Horsham there were something like 200 houses for sale, in Casterton 45 and in Coleraine 14. He said that a butter factory, a hotel, and a chemist shop had already closed in Coleraine. In Hamilton only 80 of 450 school leavers were able to be placed in employment locally, and there were twelve vacant shops in the main shopping area. To those who may question his figures let me say that if they are wrong why does  Mr Garth  obtain the support of hundreds of farmers at such meetings? They would not go there if they were well off. They would not go there if they were not in trouble. 
How, if things are all right, could you get between 1,500 and 2,000 farmers to a meeting in the rich Riverina district - one of the richest areas in Australia? I was present at this meeting, where the farmers made immediate demands on the Government to implement a short term plan to effect instant relief in fields most affected by the cost-price squeeze, including land tax, receipts tax, shire rates, consolidation of rural debt, interest rates, freight and transport costs, wool compensation and education. They called for the appointment of a royal commission to inquire into the total effect of the cost-price pressures, inflation, tariffs and marketing methods on primary production and the rural community, with emphasis to be placed on the appraisement and assessment of new longterm development programmes to secure the retention of the family farm as a major part of Australian agriculture. As we are aware there are certain people who today say that the only remedy for the position in primary industry is to get rid of the family farm and institute huge collectivetype farms. 
I realise that there is an attempt in some quarters to politicalise the situation. I hope that we will deal with this matter on the basis of doing the best we can for what is a very vital industry to Australia. We have to be fair and realise that this is not something that applies only to Australia. This is something which applies also to other parts of the world - to areas where farmers are just as efficient and to areas where production is almost as great as it is in Australia. Wherever  Mr Wilson,  the Prime Minister of Great Britain, has gone in recent weeks, he has found big demonstrations by farmers protesting at the position of the primary industry. In Canada the Prime Minister,  Mr Trudeau,  had a very bad time when he visited the western wheat prairies. He was told very bluntly by one of the leaders of the country who apparently did not appreciate  Mr 
Trudeau's activities among the ladies that it was felt that  Mr Trudeau  should devote less attention to dates and more attention to wheat. In France in recent months farmers in certain areas have stood at the side of the road giving away their produce in protest against the position of primary industry in that country. There is trouble in New Zealand and in areas of the United States of America. 
I believe that the reason for this trouble is a reason outside our country; it is a general reason. The position roughly is that the system of distribution in the world has broken down. We are told by the United Nations that of every 6 children born in the world today - we think we are progressive - between 3 and 4 children will never have enough to eat, will never have a proper home as we know it, and will never be properly clothed or educated as we know it. There are plenty of mouths for our food and plenty of bodies' requiring our wool. But the fact is that the 'have not' countries today have not got the money to buy what the 'have' countries are producing. The position is not improving as we would hope. What is happening in the world today is that the 'have nots' are becoming worse off than the 'haves', who ip spite of the problems in th rural industry, are becoming better off. 
I believe this problem has to be tackled firstly on a world-wide basis. One thing that has to be done is the provision of capital by some international organisation to the 'have not' countries for development. I believe the 'have' countries should devote more money to aid. For example, I think that we ought to lift our foreign aid to at least 2% of our gross national product. However, that is a long term measure which will not satisfy our own farmers who require short term measures. I note some remedial measures in the Governor-General's Speech for which the Government has to be given credit, but I think there is a lot more to be done. We have to do a lot more in the provision of long term finance at low interest rates. We have to push our marketing, and to do a lot of other things. I hope that the Senate will decide to grant the second of the demands made at the farmers' meeting I referred to - the demand for a royal commission which has been placed before the 
Parliament by my Party. I repeat what I said before: In my view one of the most serious issues in this country today - an issue which will have a powerful effect on the result of the Senate elections to be held this year - is the situation of the primary industry. 
Our third objection to the GovernorGeneral's Speech is that it does not adequately propose any solution to the unsatisfactory situation in Commonwealth-State relations. We know what is happening. The States are getting further and further into the red. They are deeply discontented, and that discontent is expressed to a LiberalCountry Party Government by Liberal and Country Party Premiers in every State of the Commonwealth. For example, we have been told that the Government may legislate to allow the States to collect receipt taxes. I do not think it is a very popular form of taxation. I think it can have snowballing effects which could be strongly inflationary. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  suggested in a broadcast recently that if the States collect a receipt tax they ought to lift the tax considerably. AH I can say about that suggestion is that the Government should be wary about lifting that type of tax in view of its inflationary character. I think that something has to be done to give the States an equitable share of direct income tax. My Party will support that proposal because it is opposed to centralisation and it believes in a proper federal system, which is not possible without effective CommonwealthState financial relations. 
I refer next to the position of the family. There are some proposals in the Speech such as the remission of taxation which may have some favourable effect in regard to a family. But I am not terribly keen on small remissions of taxation. I think that it would be better for the Government to retain the tax rates as they are and to provide for those people in the community who are underprivileged and for the family man. I would prefer seeing child endowment increased to seeing taxation reduced. That is something that has to be faced up to in this community where there is a prospect of equal pay being introduced. If and when equal pay is introduced there will be considerably greater spending power in the hands of the single man, and honourable senators know as well as I that the consequences to the married man will be serious. I feel that this Government is falling down on the essential job of helping the family and of helping to populate this country when it again fails to increase child endowment, when it leaves maternity allowances at the miserable rates at which they have been for so many years, and when in regard to education it still has not done all it should, although I must be fair and admit that the Government has done a lot in recent years for education. I think that it has shown commendable interests in education but I feel it could go further. There ought to be measures to encourage a man with a wife and children, particularly those who have large families, because in the present circumstances these families have a very tough job. 
Finally, my Party regrets the noninclusion in the Speech of measures for a contributory national insurance scheme. If it was brought in it would- do away with all the pettifogging about the means test and prying into people's personal affairs. The ordinary worker could pay a reasonable sum out of his wages and be assured of reasonable financial independence as of right in his old age or when in trouble. Such a scheme operates in most progressive countries today. I can never understand why the Government has not taken steps to adopt such a scheme in Australia. I commend the Government for its proposals to provide for those who may be disadvantaged by the technological changes. This matter has been brought up in particular by the Federated Clerks Union of Australia and I think that this is one of the most commendable proposals in the Speech. I am glad that the Government has brought credit unions into the home loans scheme. I recall a tremendous fight over this matter with the Government a couple of years ago. The Australian Labor Party and the Australian Democratic Labor Party sought to include credit unions in the relevant legislation but the Government refused to accept the proposal and held up the Bill. However. I am pleased to see that the Government now admits that it was wrong and we were right. The export of merino rams is not mentioned in the Speech for obvious reasons. I am sorry that the Government has decided to do by executive action what the Parliament would reject if it came before us in the form of legislation. I am a little bit perturbed at the increasing  tendency to use Executive power - to disregard die will of Parliament on the site of Parliament House; to disregard the will of the Senate, which is part of the legislative process, in the case of the lifting of the ban on the export of merino rams and to disregard the will of the Parliament in the case of the Canberra abattoirs. I hope that we will never have to carry a motion here to the effect that the power of the Executive has increased, is increasing and ought to be diminished. 
Finally, 1 wish to make a brief reference to some remarks by  Mr Whitlam  at a meeting the other day in which he launched a declaration of war on the Australian Democratic Labor Party. He is not the first Leader of his Party 10 do that. He asserted practically that we had no right to be here. I need only say this: If his desires were accomplished, the situation would be that the Government would have a majority in this House as well as in the other House and the Senate would become a rubber stamp. If the Australian Labor Party obtained a majority in the Senate, we would have a Government majority in the other House and an ALP majority in this House. This could result only in frustration. The present system gives us the Australian Democratic Labor Party which votes for issues on their merits and, whether people like us or not, honourable senators will find that, throughout the community, people will say that since the Australian Democratic Labor Party has been represented here the Senate has never functioned better in its capacity as a House of review. That is my reply to  Mr Whitlam.  I think that, in the circumstances in which he finds himself he would do much better to concentrate on constructive effort rather than the launching of declarations of war. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - ls the amendment seconded? 
I address my ques  tion to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. As a result of Cabinet's decision to lift the ban on the export of merino rams, how many were sold at the recent sales? Which overseas countries bought them? 
by leave -  Mr Deputy President,  I merely wish to say that this Agreement on the residence and employment of Yugoslav citizens in Australia has not been received with universal approval in Australia. I have received representations from a number of Australian citizens who have expressed concern, because of the nature of the Government of Yugoslavia, as to whether this Agreement will be operated in such a way that the right to exit will depend upon all the considerations that Australia would want it to depend on rather than upon political considerations. Most people who know of the situation in Yugoslavia know that there has been a reversion there in recent months to what may be termed a 'hard line' in the Government. I have received information about the activities of the new Prime Minister which does not inspire a great deal of confidence in me. I will not say what I have heard because I have not checked the information and lt would be unfair of me to make allegations unless I hud the evidence to prove them. But I do say that there are citizens in this country who would like to feel assured that the right to leave Yugoslavia will not depend upon a person's political orthodoxy in the view of the present Government. I think all Australians know that it has been very difficult for people to leave Yugoslavia and come to this country. 
I have had a number of cases - as other honourable senators may have - where people have come to Australia by deserting Yugoslavian ships. Honourable senators know that an agreement has now been made under which it is hoped a number of Yugoslavians will come here. I think there has been a certain amount of political surveillance in regard to one or two other countries, and if this agreement were similar to those which we have with most other countries where the right to leave the country would depend upon all the considerations which Australia would hope to apply, then everybody would be for it. But there is an uneasy feeling among a lot of Australians that it may depend upon political orthodoxy and allegience to the present Government. I hope to discuss this situation with the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  and I hope to be reassured by him that the fears which these people have expressed to me may not be justified. I hope the Minister will be able to give me those assurances. 
My remarks on this matter will be very brief. The Australian Democratic Labor Party is completely in accord with the principle of a 4-day week. We are very attracted by the proposal put forward by  Senator Willesee  and unless anybody can show us some traps that is the way in which our opinions go. The DLP is conscious of the fact that it is different from the other political parties in that our party is represented only in this chamber while the other parlies are represented in both chambers. It is only natural that the other parties may wish to consult with all of those who may be affected by this arrangement. Therefore, I think it is a very wise suggestion that this matter should be allowedto run on and in the meantime be canvassed by the other parties. As I said before, we make it quite clear that the DLP is prepared to vote for a 4-day sitting, but we feel that we ought to allow the other parties to canvass amongstthemselves. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 12.48 to 2.15 p.m. 
I ask the Minister for Air: How many aircraft are assigned to the so designated VIP flight of the Royal Australian Air Force? What types of aircraft are operated by this flight? What is the operating cost per hour of each type of aircraft? 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President.  Last evening exception was taken by  Senator Murphy  to remarks made by another honourable senator about not the Head of State of Yugoslavia but the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia. I understand that the honourable senator concerned withdrew his remarks. As there is a feeling among a number of honourable senators that there could be a serious inhibition of freedom of speech, particularly on matters of foreign affairs, if we were taken to assume that in future it is not possible to criticise the Prime Minister of a friendly country, I ask whether you,  Mr President,  will deliver a ruling on this matter to the Senate. 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration refers to a report in today's Canberra Times' which says that Lady Crawford, the wife of a former Governor of Uganda, was refused permission to stay in Britain when she flew in for medical treatment last night because her husband,  Sir Frederick  Crawford, had his British passport confiscated in 1967 by the British Government on the ground that he supported the Smith regime in Rhodesia. Does not her exclusion, contrasted with the admittance to Australia of  Mr Burchett,  indicate that the claims that Australia treated  Mr Burchett  unjustly are exaggerated and that the British Labour Government is much stricter on these matters than our Government? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration a question. WhileI approve the decision of the Government to register Wilfred Burchett's children on the ground that the children must not be punished because of the father, is it not a fact that the policy of the Government in similar cases has been that children outside Australia should not be registered as Australians unless the Australian parent intends to live in Australia? ls it not therefore a fact that in this case Burchett, who will leave Australia shortly to live abroad, is receiving preferential treatment? 
With all the sincerity implicit in the green tie that I am wearing on this notable occasion I ask the 
Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs the following questions: Can the Minister confirm the accuracy of the reports of the statement attributed to Lee Kuan Yew, the Prime Minister of Singapore, that Singapore will make available to the Russians the full range of base facilities, naval dockyards, repair and re-supply facilities that were previously available to the British and Australian navies only? If so, what is the Australian Government's attitude towards this action? Has the Australian Government been consulted about the offer of the base to the Soviet Union? Did the Prime Minister state in the House of Representatives in September and October last that the Government would not favour the Soviet Union's obtaining base facilities in the Indian Ocean area? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Are reports that the Post Office is contemplating increases in the cost of stamps and telephone calls true? If so. will the Government give priority to action to constitute the Post Office as a corporation conducted on business lines to avoid these steadily increasing imposts? 
I  direct my question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Will the AttorneyGeneral make a considered statement to Parliament on information available to him regarding the plans of an organisation described as a moratorium to organise activities and demonstrations of a violent and subversive character culminating in May of this year? 
The Senate tonight is in the position of a banker. It has been approached for a loan. When a businessman or a farmer approaches a banker for a loan he is compelled to make a complete statement of his situation, and on that full statement a decision is made as to whether the loan should be granted. We are asked to make a loan to an organisation which consistently over the years has refused to make available to this Parliament details of important circumstances in which it conducts its operations. Over the years I have consistently sought from the then Minister for Repatriation,  Senator McKellar,  who represented the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr 
Anthony), details of the prices at which Australian wheat was being sold, particularly to Communist China. I was consistently refused that information. I was informed on numerous occasions by the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry that the Government had no power to obtain that information from the Australian Wheat Board. The Hansard record will confirm that I was informed that the Government had no power to compel the Board to reveal matters which were vitally necessary for any decisions that would be made in regard to wheat. 
A couple of years ago I was informed by a well-known economist that I had been deceived and that actually the Government did possess that power. When I examined the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Act I found a clause which stated: 
The Minister may give directions to the Board concerning the performance of its functions and the exercise of its powers, and the Board shall comply with those directions. 
Therefore I was misled and in a sense the Parliament was misled because we were informed that the Board was autonomous in these matters when actually it was not. The question of responsibility has been brought up here tonight. It is perfectly clear that the body responsible for that situation was not the Board but the Government. I want to point out that on 15th May 1969 when I asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether it was not a fact that we had been misled and that in fact the Government did have power over the Wheat Board I received this answer: 
To be truthful, 1 have not seen that specific section . . . 
Was that Minister replying on behalf of the Minister for Primary Industry when he said that he had never seen that section which stated that the Government had control over the operations of the Wheat Board? 
On 15th May 1969. The answer continued: 
If the honourable senator says that that is the position then I have no doubt that that is so but I think it is fairly obvious that even if that section is in the legislation the Government has not seen fit to interfere with the operations of the Wheat Board and the Government has been satisfied to leave the conduct of sales of Australian wheat in the hands of the Board which is responsible to the Australian wheat growers. 
If the wheat industry is in a mess the Government is responsible, and the Opposition is partly responsible because it did not attack the Government for its failure to control the industry. At some of the meetings of farmers which I have attended I have heard it said by representatives of primary industry that the politicians have got rural industry into a mess and it is up to them to get it out of the mess. One party in this Parliament can disclaim any responsibility for the mess in which the wheat industry finds itself. Over the last 6 or 7 years the party to which I belong consistently warned the people and the Government that we would arrive at a situation where we would have so much wheat that we would be unable to sell it. 
The Government was bemused by the opportunity to make immense sales on a market which, if it had any common sense, it would have known was doubtful. The Government was bemused by that market and it allowed to arise a situation in which over a period of 8 or 9 years we almost doubled the amount of wheat grown and in which wheat was grown in places where it had never been grown before. The Government allowed to arise a situation in which there were insufficient storages. The Government would not face up to the situation which inevitably would arise when it would be unable to sell the wheat. This situation became obvious 2 years ago. I think it was about that time that  Dr Callaghan  of the Wheat Board warned the Government that it would be very difficult for the Board to sell ail the wheat grown. On behalf of my party I asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry what the Government intended to do about the immense surplus with which it could not deal. This was the answer I obtained from the Government, which now disclaims responsibility: 
I want to deprecate the spirit of gloom that seems to exist throughout a large section of the community over the fact that we had such a record crop. This should be rather a matter for congratulation. 
This reply was given at a time when anybody who knew anything about the wheat industry knew that we were faced with a crisis. The Minister said that it was a matter for congratulation. I would like to know how many times the Government was congratulated by the wheat farmers who suffered. 
What was the position? The carryover from the 1967-68 season had been about 51 million bushels. This, together with deliveries from the 1968 harvest of some 514 million bushels, meant that the Board had a total of 565 million bushels to sell during 1969. On the most optimistic forecast it could see markets for only about 320 million bushels. The Minister said that that was a matter for congratulation and that we should be proud of the record harvest. For nearly 7 years the Party which I represent consistently said that an unhealthy situation was developing because of the increasing amount of wheat sown. Over that period the amount of wheat grown almost doubled. We claimed that the sale of wheat to China raised problems. We were told that it was necessary that wheat be sold to China to keep the industry on its feet and for the purposes of overseas exchange. We then asked the price at which the wheat was sold. We were consistently informed that the Wheat Board was an autonomous body over which the Government had no control. When we found out that the Government did have control, we were informed that the Government would not compel the Wheat Board to make the information available. 
I want to point out the foolishness of the whole situation. After I had been told on numerous occasions that the Wheat Board could not permit the prices at which it was selling wheat to be known because our competitors would be advantaged - Canada was mentioned particularly  -  I wrote to the Canadian High Commissioner and asked him would he have any objection to letting me have complete details of the prices and so on at which Canada sold its wheat to Communist China.I received a lot of documents containing all possible information from Canada, which made it rather obvious to me that the situation of fear of competition was phoney unless our wheat was being sold at prices which could not bear the light of day. The next thing that happened was that I was informed by 2 or 3 economists at Australian universities that they knew the prices at which Australian wheat was being sold to Communist China. I asked them how they knew. They said: 'If you are a good economist and mathematician and if you get hold of the statistical summaries issued by the Commonwealth Government, you can ascertain the prices. We have been doing it for years'. 
We are supposed to be parliamentarians and we are supposed to control the destiny of this country. An instrumentality, which is subject to Government control, refuses to make available information which is available to people other than parliamentarians. We are called upon to vote entirely in the dark on matters affecting the wheat industry. The responsibility for the situation in which the industry finds itself lies upon members of the Government and of the Opposition who tolerated such a situation. They have consistently voted in the dark on measures affecting the wheat industry and they have accepted the situation in which they can be denied any information about how the wheat industry is run. After we made these points clear we were informed by a distinguished member of the Government that there was no possibility of anything being done about wheat sales or about controls on the amount of wheat sold. The gentleman concerned was very frank and very blunt with me. He said: We cannot do anything because the farmers organisations would kick up a row and that would mean votes'. There was no question of a principle being involved. Votes were involved and the Government was quite prepared to tolerate a situation in which the wheat industry would get into a mess, as it has, because if the Government attempted to interfere at any time it might lose votes. 
In those circumstances my Party ceased to talk about Communist China and we devoted ourselves to trying to ward off the calamity that was due to happen. I and members of my Party put forward a 3- point plan. We said: 'A catastrophe is coming'. To try to save the wheat industry from that catastrophe we called for, firstly, restrictions on the amount of wheat sown or discouragement of the amount of wheat sown; secondly, increased storages; and, thirdly, stronger efforts to diversify our markets. That was over 5 years ago. I will repeat those three points. Five or six years ago we called for action, firstly, to discourage the amount of wheat sown; secondly, for increased storages; and thirdly, for stronger efforts to diversify our markets. 
We realised that increased storages would take some time to complete. We also realised that even then there would be a problem. The problem is with us today. The responsibility for the present mess lies at the door of the Government and also at the door of the Australian Labor Party. Prior to the last election, when the Opposition was desperate, the Australian Labor Party declared in wheat growing areas in Victoria that it would fight to the last ditch any attempt to impose quotas. Anybody knows that at that particular stage the Government had no alternative but to impose quotas. 
My Party will support the Bill because it has no alternative. The wheat industry is in a state of crisis. The Government has to lend money to the wheat industry. I support this Bill although it goes against the grain, because I think it is entirely wrong that we should be called upon to discuss the wheat industry wilh all its ramifications while, at the same time, the Government supports the refusal of an instrumentality to make available to my Party financial knowledge which is essential to its consideration of the whole question. I am going to ask one question in conclusion: Why are we not told the prices at which wheat is being sold to Communist China? We are not being told because the prices would not bear the light of day. Australian economists have said publicly that the prices at which the wheat is being sold are less than the cost of production. It has already been said that Australia is selling wheat .to Communist China at prices lower than those for sales being made to India and countries which are friendly disposed towards us. If that is the case - and I believe it to be the case - the Government, for political reasons, is denying us essential information. I am sorry for the wheat grower. He was led up the garden path by people in the Government who refused to provide any leadership and who were actuated only by one thing - the fear that if they opposed the people running the wheat industry they might lose votes In those circumstances I say we will vote for this measure, but in the future I hope we will get a little bit of leadership from the Government for the wheat industry. I believe that until we get that, the future of our rural industries is going to be very poor indeed. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party realises that we have no alternative but to vote for the Bill. We have been informed that Australia is faced with an emergency and that urgent legislation must be passed if we are even to begin to deal with that emergency. Therefore, we are placed in the position that we must trust the Government and must support the speedy passage of the Bill. I merely comment that I do not think we Australians realise how fortunate we have been over the years in that we have not had a similar disaster of considerable magnitude. Most of our oil must come from abroad in tankers. When one realises the immense quantity of oil that has been imported over the years, one marvels that we have not been faced with a very serious disaster. The Government has said that it does not have adequate powers to deal with a situation such as that existing at present in waters adjacent to our shores. Therefore, I think we should respond to the appeal of the Government and we should pass this Bill. 

 Senator Murphy said that the Bill appears to be a permanent amendment to the Navigation Act. I do not think any Act is a permanent one. It is always subject to being eliminated from the statute book. I presume that what he meant was that unless there were some guarantee such as he sought the Bill could become a permanent amendment to the Act even though the parties have not had an opportunity to examine its provisions. Normally my Party is not particularly keen to put on tags such as that suggested by  Senator Murphy,  but we think we ought to hear what  Senator Murphy  has to say at the Committee stage as he has forecast his intention of putting certain arguments. We will make our decision in the light of the arguments that are put forward. 
1 ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. When may we expect the action for reform of the penal provisions of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act which the Government, while rejecting abolition of the provisions, promised last year? Is not this action for reform overdue seeing that industrial trouble is increasing and that the present penal provisions appear to have been suspended by the Government, thus opening the door to the present indiscipline? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science noted claims in the Press that statistics show that the percentage of engineers graduating from Australian universities today is the lowest of any comparable country in the world. Does not this fact have the most serious implications for Australia's future development? Is engineering an unattractive profession because the remuneration is unsatisfactory? Is one example of the unsatisfactory nature of the remuneration the recent award given to professional engineers in the employ of the Government, which has led them almost to a state of revoli? 
I would not have risen to speak had it not been for the reference  Senator Murphy  made to the possibility of the Australian Democratic Labor Party tagging on bits and pieces, as he put it. I am not aware that the DLP has done any tagging on of bits and pieces. A case which comes to mind is the debate on the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General's Speech. The DLP moved the original amendment in that debate and the Australian Labor Party tagged on bits and pieces. 

 -If Senator Murphy is threatening me I suggest that it would be better if he were to come out into the open. I have no objection. I merely want to' say that the DLP s actions in regard to this Bill are perfectly legitimate. It looked at  Senator McClelland's  amendment and decided that it was an expression of opinion that gave no reasons. Naturally, the DLP felt that if the Senate were to tell the people of Australia that it disapproved of the Government's actions in regard to the wheat industry it should be able to at least tell them also why it did so. AH my Party has done is try to make the people of Australia aware of the reasons. The only other thing I want to say is in regard to the general terms. They were made available to me by the Australian Wheat Board. On 28th August 1968 I asked a question concerning wheat. In reply I was not given the prices but I was given the elaborate table 1 have in my hand which indicates the general terms. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party associates itself with the remarks that have already been made and expresses regret at the passing of the late Jim Fraser.  Mr Fraser  was a man of great ability and of high principles, yet he was a kindly man whom it was a pleasure to have known. He carried out a very difficult and responsible political task in Canberra where he was not only a member of Parliament but, in a sense, almost a mayor as well. The confidence which his constituents had in him was shown by the increasing majorities with which he won his seat. T understand that they paid a remarkable tribute to him on the day of his funeral. That was an indication of the very high regard in which he was held. My Party joins in expressing to his family its very deep regret at his passing. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. What are the circumstances behind the visit to Australia  of.  Mr B.  Gafurov of the Soviet Union? Is it correct that  Mr Gafurov  is not, as is alleged in some circles, a professor and that his only known publication is one book on colonialism? What action does the Government take to ensure that exchanges of academics with the Soviet Union are bona fide? 
Professor Gafurov which may answer some of the points raised. If it does not cover all that the honourable senator requires I shall be pleased to obtain further information for him. Professor Gafurov is an historian and is Director of the Institute of Oriental Studies at the Academy of Sciences of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. He was invited by the Australian National University in May 1969 to consider making a short visit to discuss an exchange of scholars to the mutual benefit of both institutions. Exchange visits of this nature may be approved under long standing government policy subject to satisfactory sponsorship where necessary. Other Western countries also favour exchanges of this nature. 
The Professor applied to the Australian Embassy in Moscow last month for a 14-day visit visa in response to the invitation from the Australian National University. The application was the subject of normal careful examination, including consultation with other interested departments, and with particular regard to security considerations. A visa for a 14-day visit was granted to enable the discussions at the Australian National University on which the University's invitation was based. I will be pleased to get further information concerning the honourable senators question. 
The Government says that he is -a professor? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science seen statements, firstly from  Dr J.  F. Cairns and, secondly, from a person who claims to be organising a moratorium in the Australian Capital Territory in May, calling on schools to participate in a strike to be held at that time? Will the Minister inform me who has authority over the children - their parents and teachers or  Dr Cairns  and the organisers of the moratorium? 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise. Firstly, did the customs or postal authorities confiscate from a letter or packet addressed to Michael Quain of 132 Glengala Road, Sunshine Heights, Victoria, 1 shamrock forwarded to him by his mother from Ireland for the feast of St Patrick? Secondly, are the authorities aware that  Mr Quain  has been receiving his shamrock every year for 20 years and that this has been a common practice with overseas Irishmen for over 100 years? Thirdly, are they aware that the shamrock was sent in an envelope showing that it had been washed, sterilised and passed by the Irish quarantine authorities? 
Fourthly, are they aware that as the shamrock will grow only in good Irish soil it presents none of the dangers to Australia which  Mr Quain  says derive from thistles from Scotland, rabbits from England and cactus plants from the United States of America? Fifthly, is not this attack on the shamrock the last straw to loyal Irishmen when combined with this year's decision in Melbourne to abandon the St Patrick's Day procession? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister noted that the latest report issued by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics states that Australia's net farm income will fall 21% and that farm income will slump to 4% of the national product, compared with 8% in 1.964-65? Does the Government regard this fall as most serious and does not this fall highlight the need for a comprehensive survey of rural industry so that remedial measures may be initiated? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Works, and I do so having regard to a campaign in which I was associated with him some time ago. Prior to any action being taken for the erection of a new parliament house in terms of the recommendation of the Joint Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House, that the new parliament house will provide accommodation for up to 108 senators and up to 450 members of the House of Representatives - that is 4 times as many members as senators - will the Governent and the Minister pay due regard to the people's recent referendum decision, that the number of senators should continue to be half the number of members of the House of Representatives? Can the Minister assure us that it is his view, as Minister for Works, that accommodation for the members of each House should reflect the people's decision? Is this recommendation regarding the number of members an attempt to use the erection of the new parliament house as an argument for breaking the nexus between the two Houses? 
My remarks will be very brief. In a period in which we are told by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  that serious action has to be taken to avoid inflation, I can imagine very few things less desirable than that this country should embark upon an era of spending for the purpose of providing ourselves with colour television. I have seen colour television inJapan. I think it is overrated. If the Government decided to delay the introduction of it until 1974, I am all in favour of such a delay. The Government will have my warm support if it delays the introduction till 1984 or 1994. In a developing country, with all our problems, I think it would be criminal if we were to embark upon a course of action to spend millions of dollars upon the provision of television sets when, as  Senator Little  has said, many people who purchased sets 12 years ago are only now almost at the point of having paid them off. 
The other commentI want to make is that we have been told - we have had no confirmation of it, I admit - that the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Hulme)  is considering increasing the charges that are imposed by the Post Office.I think it is time that we spent the money which is provided for the Post Office on things that are really necessary in this country. I simply point out that some years ago we were told that immense sums of money were going to be spent on carrying our letters by plane, but what is the result? Letters are being carried by plane, but they are being held at the Post Office for 1 or 2 days because there is only1 delivery of letters a day. 
The Senate is debating a motion moved by the Minister for Supply  (Senator Anderson)  that the Senate concur in the resolution setting up the Foreign Affairs Committee. An amendment has been introduced by  Senator Drury  which, while it leaves in the word 'concur' makes it clear that the Australian Labor Party does not concur because it proposes to make alterations. I am glad that the matter is going to be settled at last because the Foreign Affairs Committee, in my view, is a very important Committee. Although Parliament was elected last October, here we are in the middle of April and no meetings of the Committee have been held. 
I hear an interjection to the effect that the  Chairman  should have called the Committee together. He can not very well call the Committee together until the conditions under which it is to meet have been determined, and up to date they have not been determined. I regret that this delay has occurred. I am indebted, not to any official representative of the Government or the Opposition, but to the newspapers for the information that the hold-up in appointing the Committee has been due to the fact that representations have been made to the Government by the Opposition, and the Government and the Opposition have indicated their respective views of those representations. As my Party, the Australian Democratic Labor Party, is represented on the Foreign Affairs Committee I would have hoped that it would at least have been apprised of what was going on. But instead of that I was able to learn from the newspapers that it was likely that a request for more representation on the Committee by the Australian Labor Party was going to be agreed to. I was apprised that the Opposition was to move these amendments and that if it were defeated it would still go along with its representation on the Committee. 
I find the situation most interesting. The whole future of the Committee is being determined behind the scenes by 2 parties without any regard for the views of the other party involved and without any attempt to consult that party on its viewpoint. We come to the situation where these representations, negotiations, or whatever one calls them are going on behind the scenes and another Party which is represented on the Committee is completely ignored. Apparently if the representations were successful our Party was going to be faced with a fait accompli. 
It is quite obvious from what we have all heard that as a result of these behind the scenes negotiations the Government is firm that it is not going to accept the amendments which have been moved by  Senator Drury.  Therefore the position would be that if the Senate carried these amendments either the Committee will not meet or its meetings will be postponed for many months while further behind the scenes discussions take place to which my party will not be privy. I think it is time we got on with the job. The Opposition has put forward a claim and has indicated that this claim is not going to be supported in the other House. If we carry amendments here all we will do is delay the whole thing or entirely prevent the Committee from meeting. Because my Party believes we should get on with the job it is not prepared to support the amendment which has been put forward on 2 fronts, firstly, in regard to the Committee sitting in public, and secondly, in regard to the reference of certain matters to the Committee by either House of Parliament. 
I think  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has put forward some obvious reasons why it is better to retain the .present situation where the Commitee may, at the request of the Minister, be empowered to meet publicly. If the other system suggested is introduced the Committee could run into some complications. It could run into the possibility that the discussions in the Committee would become highly party political in a way which I would not like to see happen. Once the Committee meets in public prima donnas on . either side will seize the opportunity to use the Committee meetings for political purposes. I would always hope that this would be a Committee in which matters are approached on the basis that all members are residents of the Australian community, rather than essentially members of parties. For that reason, and other reasons advocated by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, I will not support the proposal to alter the present system under which the Committee may meet in public on a particular matter with the approval of the Minister. 
On the question on reporting to Parliament on such matters referred to the Committee by either House of Parliament, I do not see that much is to be gained by that. At the present time I suppose nothing would be referred to the Committee by the other House if the Government did not approve of such referral. If the Senate referred a certain matter to the Committee I do not know that a great deal would be gained because, after all, in my experience on the Committee where the different Parties have been represented there has never been any problem. Any member on either side who has considered a particular subject should be debated has been able to have it debated. If the caucus of the Australian Labor Party or if the caucus of the Government - I do not know whether the Government likes the word 'caucus' applied to its deliberations - felt that a certain matter should be considered there would be no difficulty at the present time in seeing to it that the Committee examined that matter. Therefore I think that, to a certain degree, this proposal is quite unnecessary because opportunities exist at the present time for the Committee to consider matters which representatives of either party feel should be considered. 
I do not feel inclined to hold up the deliberations or the meetings of the Foreign Affairs Committee for several more months while matters are being considered which could not reach any other conclusion than the one contained in the submission sent to the Senate from the House of Representatives. I do not for one moment suggest that there should not be an improvement in the organisation and functioning of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I do think a  lot  could be done in that direction. I hope  that  one of  the  early meetings of  the  new Foreign Affairs Committee will  be  devoted  to  consideration of ways and means by  which  the method of deliberation and the method of dealing with matters might be improved. I also point out that it is quite possible that a different kind of Foreign Affairs Committee will be established. Proposals are going to come before the Senate  for  the establishment of certain Committees. These may include a new Foreign Affairs Committee along new lines. We will then be in the situation of having to debate  the  method under which that particular Committee should function. Therefore I  feel,  if we are going to look at improvements in the methods of deliberation and organisation of the Committee it is better  to  get the thing going. When it is going let  us  have a look at the method of improving  its  organisation. Obviously, if the proposals  of  these standing committees are accepted the Senate will be in the position of having to examine the whole system under which  the  Committee shall operate. As I said before and as I have stressed again, it is nearly 7 months since the election and there  has  been no meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I am not prepared to support any proposal to prevent the Committee meeting any longer. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  -  Senator Byrne,  do  you  want a ruling on this or are you seeking  an  explanation? 
Sentaor Byrne -  I  merely wanted to  bring it  to  attention  so  that the Senate would know what it would  be  voting  on  ultimately. 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport and the Minister for National Development. Is the Government concerned at the chaotic situation in the petrol selling industry where alongside a price war resulting in the otter of big discounts we have demands for increased prices? Will the Government give consideration to an inquiry into the industry which can determine procedures to regulate petrol selling and so safeguard garage lessees in particular and owners generally from the economic disaster facing them as well as ensure that prices are just to the petrol user? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science who is in charge of Commonwealth schools. Does the Commonwealth firmly disapprove of political indoctrination of school children by school teachers? What redress or action is available to a parent whose child, without the parent's permission, may be urged or advised by a teacher to take part in the forthcoming Moratorium? As children are compelled to attend classes, is not political indoctrination by Moratorium supporting teachers a blatant attempt to force their opinions on the children while the children are compelled to listen? 
asked the Minisler representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that, because of the union hold up of transport for merino rams sold at the recent sales, for export, the Government is contemplating granting permission for the export of semen from merino rams. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Can the Prime Minister confirm the accuracy of the reports attributed to Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew that Singapore will make available to the Russians the full range of base facilities - naval dockyards, repair and re-supply facilities - that was previously available only to the British and Australian navies. 
If the reports are accurate, what is the Government's attitude towards this situation. 
Has the Government been consulted about the offer of the base to the Russians. 
Did the Prime Minister state, in September and October last, that the Government would not favour the Russians obtaining base facilities in the Indian Ocean area. 
There is a well known saying that he whom the gods wish to destroy they first make mad. In my State of Victoria at the end of May there is to be an election and the Australian Labor Party is claiming that because of the unpopularity of the Government it has the best opportunity for years of winning the election. But 3 weeks before the election members of the Labor Party propose to have it pinned on them that they have taken a major part in staging this Moratorium. The trade union movement of Victoria has repudiated the Moratorium. The Trades Hall Council has repudiated it and has asked  Dr Cairns  to cease appealing to unionists. It has been repudiated by a wide variety of people, whom the Australian Labor Party will attack, having seen to it that a large number of trade unionists will be fined a day's pay over an issue in which they have no particular interest; having seen that parents have learned that their children 'have been approached outside the authority of their parents, and asked to take part in this demonstration; and having done everything that they possibly can to antagonise the general community in Victoria. Members of the Australian Labor Party will proceed to the election, be defeated as usual and then blame the Democratic Labor Party. All 1 can say is that the wounds from which they will suffer will be self inflicted. 1 noticed for years that the Communist Party used to call strikes 3 weeks before an election for the purpose of destroying the Labor Party's chances. It no longer has to do so. These days the Australian Labor Party destroys its own chances by getting itself involved in this kind of thing, which can only do it harm. 
We had this kind of thing - a moratorium - as long ago as 1938 when a body called the Australian Council Against War and Fascism staged the same sort of demonstrations but, in view of the fact that the Communists were associated with it. the Labor Party rejected it. The result was that in those days no-one could ever pin on the ALP in Victoria any association with the Communist Party and it did nol do the Party any damage at elections. If the ALP had decided to conduct its own demonstrations in regard to Vietnam - to put forward ils own case against the war in Vietnam - nobody could object and nobody could criticise it because it has the right to do so. But how can the Labor Party possibly justify its association with this motley collection of no-hopers who have assembled to establish or set on foot this Moratorium, which is a miserable imitation of what has been already organised in the United States of America, and, having damaged its reputation, proceed to an election and ask the people to vote for it. 
To me, the worst feature of the Moratorium is the attempt to drag children into it without any regard to the fact that the persons who are entitled to have authority over the children arc their own parents. What is happening? 1 wish lo quote from an article in the Melbourne 'Age' of 2nd April which attributes a statement to  Mr N.  B. Butler, who is described as a teacher at Sunshine North Technical School and a spokesman for the Schools Moratorium Committee, in the following terms: 
The Schools Moratorium Committee, which consists mainly of teachers, will ask high school humanities teachers to organise class discussion of the Vietnam war. 
The committee will distribute literature in all Victorian high schools and it will ask teachers not to take action against students who miss school on 8th May, which is the day set for the demonstration called by  Dr J.  F. Cairns. Many trade unions have rules that minors are not permitted to take part in strikes. I would have thought that if people wanted to hold such a demonstration they would have left it to the able bodied and the adult to conduct it. I think il is despicable for people to go over the heads of parents and school authorities, lt is despicable of them to attempt to use the children for political purposes. When they use the children for political purposes they show they lack any sense of morality. 
The fight is now being transferred to the universities. A meeting convened by leaders of the Students for a Democratic Society in the Guild Theatre at Melbourne University on Friday, 3rd April planned activities for the moratorium and decided that lectures at Melbourne University would be forcibly taken over - I repeat forcibly taken over - and disrupted on the morning of 8th May to oblige students attending them to hear discussions on the Vietnam war and reasons for taking part in the Moratorium. If I am a university student and 1 am paying for lectures what right has anybody who claims to stand for freedom to say that my lectures shall be forcibly taken over by a minority group and that the lectures shall be devoted to a subject in which I have no interest or of which I do not approve? ls that freedom? I could understand it if these people were to go into the highways and byways or hire a hall to put their case, but why do they have a right to force their case upon me and to force me to listen to it during a university lecture for which 1 have paid? ls a university a place of learning or a place where people can be forcibly indoctrinated against their will? 1 have a further report of the activities at Melbourne University. The activities planned for the afternoon include the occupation and closing of Collins, Swanston and Bourke Streets between 3 and 6 p.m. I understood that I had the freedom to use the streets, but a minority is now going to close the streets and prevent me from using them - and doing so in the name of freedom. The demonstrators are to be grouped in  3  battalions of 20 to 40 students and will link arms and progress along the streets in a snake dance pattern which is modelled on the methods of Japanese student groups. Does anyone say that it will not lead to violence? Honourable senators know what will happen - there will be violence. The battalions will group together in the Treasury Gardens and will move off at 2 p.m. They are to carry cloth banners for draping over the windscreens of any cars which are trying to use the streets. They will therefore run the risk of provoking an accident in order to prevent a citizen from exercising his right to drive along the street. A pamphlet entitled 'Nixon's Blood Bath' will be distributed in thousands to children in Melbourne schools over the next few weeks. A practice demonstration will be held 2 weeks before 8th May. 
Let nobody be in any doubt. This is a definite call to violence and disorder. Of course, Monash University would not be behind by any means. A similar discussion was held at Monash University on Tuesday, 7th April under the chairmanship of  Mr Jim  Falk of the Public Affairs Committee of the Monash Association of Students, which resulted in the following reports and decisions: The physics department at Monash will not schedule any lectures for 8th May. It is interesting to me to know that lecturers can wipe out lectures for the purpose of a moratorium. It is hoped in addition that academics from other departments will decline to give lectures on that day. To get student backing at Monash it was decided that it would be necessary to picket lectures. In other words they are going to stand in the doorways and prevent students who want to attend legitimate lectures from getting in. This will not mean violence, will it? It was decided to hold teach-ins and to form small faculty groups of students who will disrupt the lectures - I repeat that they will disrupt the lectures - and lead walk-outs. 
Faculty groups were elected from the faculties of Arts, Science, Law, Medicine and Engineering and the Diploma of Education. The task of the faculty group members was defined as being to tell lecturers that their lectures would be turned over to Vietnam discussion at a certain time. Surely this will not promote violence! It was further decided, on the suggestion of a Monash Labor Club member and ex-student, Albert Langer, that the process of taking over lectures should be carried out continuously in the period to 8th May. The activities planned for 8th May itself were industrial and university strikes, the occupation of streets in Melbourne and 'streat theatres'. The occupation would take the form of physically blocking off certain streets and particular buildings. A girl student who was present asked whether it should be made clear that the Moratorium Campaign was moral and not political. This was greated with sustained laughter. 
All I am going to say is that this is the programme which will be carried out with the endorsement of the Australian Labor Party. It seems very difficult for me to get a hearing from the protagonists of free speech on my right, from the people who are so eloquent about freedom of speech. But I notice that while they are eloquent about the right of freedom of speech they will attempt to drown anybody who speaks against their point of view. The next thing to which I want to refer is the suggestion which has been made in some quarters that there may be a Communist nigger in the woodpile. I believe it would be very wrong to say that unless one was able to produce the evidence. I propose to produce some evidence. I have here a number of documents which emanate from 168 Day Street, Sydney, which, as some New South Wales senators will confirm, is the headquarters of the Communist Party. These documents also contain a phone number and the phone number is that of the Communist Party. A ticket is enclosed for a celebration of the 100th Anniversary of the birth of V. I. Lenin. A gathering is to be held by the national and Sydney committees of the Communist Parties of Australia in Jim Healey Hall for the launching of a booklet titled 'Lenin Theories of Revolution' which is written by Eric Aarons. I do not propose to use the ticket but I want to point out that it also contains an interesting statement of what the Communist Party is planning. This is the official Communist Party statement: 
A contribution of women and children to the Vietnam Moratorium. 
Now, asI said before,  I  would not  mind  the able bodied, but  why the women  and children? Then this document goes further: 
The Conscience of Song My 
There are thousands of Song Mys! 
No more Song Mys! 
Withdraw all Soldiers NOW! 
End Conscription NOW! 
Now it comes: 
We seek a group of women, some elderly people and many children to represent the murdered people of Song My in an act of conscience during the Vietnam Moratorium. 
So the Communist Party will be represented by the women, the children and the elderly people. The document continues: 
Will you help? We will appear as a contingent. 
The Communist Party will appear as a contingent in the May Day march on Sunday 3rd May. 
I will  continue when the protagantst of free speech  on  my right ceases. The document states: 
We will appear as - 
A contingent in the May Day march on Sunday, May 3rd. 
A silent protest at lunch hour in Australia Square on Friday, May 8th, from 12-2 (first day of the school holidays). 
In various suburbs on Saturday morning. May 9th. 
We will demonstrate in the Vietnam Moratorium under the slogans - 
THERE ARE THOUSANDS OF SONG MYS- 
MAKE SURE THERE ARE NO MORE SONG MYS 
WITHDRAW ALL SOLDIERS NOW! 
END CONSCRIPTION NOW! 
If you want to join us, you will need black slacks or skirl, a black or white shirt- 
Fancy the Communist Party wearing black shirts -  and a cardboard hat (cone shaped). 
You and your children could dye old clothes and make hatsfor yourselves or your children. If you don't have such clothes, we will be making black clothcover-alls for women and children. 
If you can help in the preparations or require further information, please write to: 
POST OFFICE BOX 114, HAYMARKET, 
SYDNEY. 
An interesting note reads: 
For May Day we will be meeting to change into our clothes at the office of the Builders Labourers Federation, 535 George Street, Sydney. 
Those are the details and there is the evidence. Nobody can say it is anything to be proud  of.  There is a straight out deter minationto undertake measures which must lead to violence. There is an endeavour to enlist elderly people, women and children, and to use the children. All I can say in conclusion is that I could understand the Australian Labor Party, knowing as I do it is opposed to the war in Vietnam, if it decided to hold its own demonstrations as it always did in the old days of the Party. But when it allows itself to be tied up to an organisation such as this all it does is further determine many electors in this country that it is unworthy and unsafe to be voted for and it ensures its electoral defeat. 
 I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. Did the Minister note the radio report this morning that one of Australia's largest teachers organisations has announced that it will not intervene on behalf of any teacher suspended for advocating the Moratorium to pupils under his charge? Does the Minister agree with the spokesman for this teachers organisation who says that the policy of the union is that teachers have the right to their private political opinions but they have no right to import those opinions into the class room? 
I move: 
That the Senate is of opinion' that a royal commission should be appointed to inquire into the present condition and future prospects of primary industry in Australia. 
The first question one must ask in considering my motion is this: Is there a crisis in primary industry which demands such strong action? I answer firstly by pointing to the latest report of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics which states that net farm income this year will fall by 21% to $969m, while primary production, which represented 8% of the gross national product in 1964-65, will this year represent only 4% of the gross national product.  1  point also to a statement by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  in which he declared that grave problems are facing the wool, dairy and wheat industries. He has also referred to problems in quite a number of other industries. In answering the question I have posed I would also refer to a statement by the Minister when speaking in 1968 at the Rural Science Graduates Conference at the University of New England, Armidale. The position has worsened since then. He said: 
These days I think everyone would agree that an income of $2,000 per annum is no great comfort. The average earning of factory workers in 1966-67 was over $3,000. There are several rural industries where the proportion of producers with net farm incomes of less than $2,000 a year is 50% or greater. Remember that net farm income has to cover not only the labour of the operator but also the return, if any, on the capital he has invested in his farm. It is not right to allow these people to struggle on at the inadequate standards of living without doing something to rectify the situation. The last thing we can afford is a policy of let drift. 
In recent weeks  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  the Premier of Queensland, announced that the Queensland Government had asked the Commonwealth to consider urgently a proposal to help some graziers who were facing bankruptcy. He added that the graziers concerned have reached the limit of their credit from all sources. A remarkable statement was made by  Mr P.  J. Meehan,  President  of  the Victorian Farmers Union, Grains Division. In the 'Victorian Farmer' of 6th April he is reported as saying: 
Surplus wheat stocks could be brought back to manageable proportions if Australian went out of wheat production for at least a year. 
He said that such a drastic suggestion would shock many people, but, if nothing else, it emphasised the position of Australian wheat growing in a world plagued with wheat surpluses. He said that the Canadian Government was setting an example which he believed could be followed by Australia's Federal Government. The report went on: 
The Canadian Government is proposing to pay fanners $5 for wheat land left as fallows, and  $8i  an acre for wheat land given over to forage crops for at least 2 years. If this principal were adopted in Australia, however, there would have to be a funding of farmers' debts or a moratorium declared. 
Can anybody fairly suggest that there is no crisis in the wheat industry when a responsible officer of a wheat growers organisation puts forward such a proposal, which may have to be considered? Honourable senators are familiar with the problems of the dairy industry. They were brought home to me on the day following the recent farmers' march in Melbourne when a deputation of dairy farmers approached me and pointed out that they were in a desperate position. Some of them said that in order to keep going they had had to borrow money at high rates of interest, at 14% in some cases, and had now reached the end of the road. 
It is, but it has been happening because of the desperate position of these men. I agree that it is usury. Serious problems have arisen in the dried fruits industry, particularly as the proposal for stabilisation placed before the industry recently failed to receive a sufficient number of votes. The potato industry is in a serious pligh't. All in all, there is a crisis in which only 1 or 2 of our primary industries can face the future with any confidence. What is the result of this situation? The result is that all over some  of  the most fertile portions of Australia, in Victoria and New South Wales, demonstrations of discontent have been made by farmers with demands that something be done to relieve their situation. 
Edenhope in Victoria is the centre of one  of  the most prosperous areas of perhaps the most prosperous State for its size in the Commonwealth. It is the centre of the Kowree Shire, the sixth largest in Victoria, the second biggest producer of wool in the State, in which are the highest numbers of sheep and lambs in the State. It has a total occupied area of over 1 million acres, and only 92,000 acres remain unimproved or partly improved. It produces 2,600,000 bushels of wheat, oats and barley, plus beef, dairy cattle, small seeds, dried fruits, fodder and fat lambs. 
A survey of 30 farmers was conducted in this region, one of the most prosperous in Australia. It revealed that the average area of farms there was 892 acres; the average liability was $28,400 with an average rate of increase of debt over 3 years of over $3,000 a year. A selection of 600 farmers showed that nearly 300 had net incomes over the past 3 years of less than the basic wage. I remind honourable senators that this area was severely affected by drought. There are 906 farms in the shire and the survey showed that nearly 50% of those farms brought in net incomes of less than the basic wage. I point out that the farmers at Edenhope originated the farmers' protest movement. To round off the picture I will give some details of neighbouring towns in the area. In Horsham, a very prosperous town, there are about 200 houses for sale; in Casterton 45; in Coleraine, where a butter factory, hotel and chemist shop have already closed, 14 houses are for sale. In Hamilton only 80 of 450 school leavers were able to be placed locally and there were 12 vacant shops in the main shopping area. 
At other centres there were demonstrations similar to that which originated in have been present at a number of others. A number more are scheduled which I Edenhope. I was present at one at Ballarat; I was present at one at Hamilton; and I hope to attend. The impression I have gained from attending these meetings is that these people are definitely facing a grave crisis. In view of the contribution of rural industry to Australia, prosperity over the years we must do something in order to assist them. 
The most impressive meeting that I attended was held at Jerilderie. It was attended by 1,500 to 2,000 farmers. The area concerned normally is a very prosperous one. When such a large number of primary producers are prepared to leave their farms for a whole day for the purpose of showing that they believe that there is a crisis which must be met, it indicates that there is grave trouble facing us. There was a large attendance of parliamentarians from all parties. The chair was taken by  Senator Bull  who, however, was not associated with the decisions made. He, as a representative of that area, acted as  chairman.  Also present were  Mr Grassby,  the local Federal member,  Senator McClelland,  2 Commonwealth Ministers,  Mr Holten  and  Mr Anthony  and a number of State parliamentarians. I was present on behalf of my party. The result of the meeting was that a motion was carried calling for - 
Immediate demands on the Commonwealth and State Governments to implement a short term plan to effect instant relief in fields most affected by the cost price squeeze, including land tax, receipts tax, shire rates, consolidation of rural debt, interest rates, freight and transport costs, wool compensation, education, improved port facilities and power for industry. 
There was a second part to that motion. I think those attending the meeting showed great wisdom by putting forward a short term policy and then a long term policy. The long term policy called for - 
The appointment of a royal commission by the Commonwealth Government to inquire into the total effect of the cost price pressures, inflation, tariffs, marketing methods, etc. on primary production and the rural community, emphasis to be placed on the appraisement and the assessment of new long term development programmes to secure the retention of the family farm as a major part of Australian agriculture. 
I was impressed by the meeting. I was impressed by the wisdom of those present in putting forward short term policies to meet the immediate needs and a long term policy to cover the future. I formed the conclusion that their proposal for a royal commission was a sound one. I found that it was agreed to by farmers at other meetings in Victoria which I attended. It was for that reason that I placed on the Senate notice paper this proposal for a royal commission. The farmers had asked for it and I felt that their proposal was entitled to consideration in this chamber. I believe that a royal commission has a great deal to commend it. I propose to deal shortly with my reasons for that statement. It may be asked why it should be a royal commission and not a parliamentary committee. I think that the last parliamentary committee of this type was one appointed as long  ago as  1941. I have with me a reference  from  the Senate Hansard which states: 
Message  received from the House of Representatives  intimating  that it had agreed to the  appointment  of a joint  committee  to inquire into  and report upon the effects of the war  on the  marketing of primary produce, and  on the  economic condition of Australian rural industries, and requesting the concurrence  of  the  Senate  therein, and the appointment of four members to the committee. 
That was in 1941 when there was a similar period of crisis because of the effect  of  the war on Australian primary industries. 
If I am asked why did I embrace  the  proposal for a royal commission rather than the precedent I have referred to, my answer, firstly, is that this proposition  was  put to the meeting of farmers in Jerilderie. They were asked whether they wanted  a  parliamentary committee of inquiry  or a  royal commission. The answer of those  at  the meeting was overwhelming.  Of the  attendance of at least 1,500 farmers,  only  6 were in favour of a parliamentary committee. The overwhelming majority declared that they wanted a royal commission.  I was  interested to note that among those present was  Mr Pat  Hills, the Leader of the Opposition in New South Wales and a member of the Australian Labor Party. My recollection is that  Mr Hills  commended those present on their decision requesting a  royal  commission rather than a parliamentary committee of inquiry and told them  that  he felt that they had done the right thing. We of the Democratic Labor Party  have  put forward this proposal because  the  farmers themselves indicated that this  was  what they wanted. There are obvious objections which can be brought forward against a royal commission covering such  a wide  area as this one would cover. 
They were  the  only 2 proposals placed before the meeting by the sponsors. The matter of putting  propositions  to the meeting was left in  the  hands of the sponsors. We left it to them and it was their decision. The obvious objection was put to me yesterday by  one  honourable member who said that a royal commission on this issue could take 5 years. I think he was exaggerating, probably  having  in mind a counter proposition to be  put  forward by his Party. I might point  out  that there is no suggestion that everything in regard to the rehabilitation of rural industry is going to be halted until this proposed commission has brought in its recommendations. As the meeting itself suggested, there are short term things that can be done and must be done in order to keep rural industry upon its feet. The proposal for a long term committee of inquiry was designed to see that an expert body - and it would have to be a very expert body - should determine the lines of development for Australian industry in the face of developments over the years to come. I think that by doing this those at the meeting have countered the argument that a royal commission would be merely a means of postponing action and that it might take too long to put its propositions into effect. 
I might say that on every occasion that I have had the opportunity to speak to representatives of the farming community I have assured them that my Party would co-operate in desirable short term measures and would vote for them at all times, in the interests of the rural community, because we realise that short term measures of a drastic nature are urgently required. We believe that a royal commission is needed in order to carry out the broad survey required at a time when the difficulties of our rural industries are not due entirely to local factors. They are largely due to factors affecting primary industry throughout the world. This is not a problem which can be fastened on this Government. This is a problem which is fastened upon governments throughout the world today. In Canada  Mr Trudeau  faces the most difficult of situations. As I have explained, he is now in the situation of paying the Canadian farmers not to grow wheat. In Great Britain,  Mr Wilson  is being approached repeatedly by delegations of farmers complaining that their situation is desperate. In the United States of America primary industry has been propped up by all kinds of systems and subsidies and other aids to such a degree that the whole edifice is now threatening to topple. In small countries such as the Philippines there are grave problems in the sugar industry which is the backbone of the country's rural economy. In countries like Brazil the coffee industry is in a similar state. Where there is a situation which is world wide we cannot deal with it by trying to plug a hole here, there or anywhere else. It is necessary in that instance to have a body inquiring into the whole matter, a body which can take a broad view, which can have at its disposal the services of overseas experts. 
There is much argument in favour of the proposition that our troubles come from the fact that the world system of distribution has broken down. The have-not countries do not have the capital to develop their economies while at the same time buying food and wool abroad. Until the system of distribution is corrected it may be that we will have the utmost difficulty in rehabilitating our own primary industries. On behalf of my Party I have put forward the proposition that we should endeavour to improve the situation of the have-not countries by increasing our aid to 2% and by making approaches to world organisations for greater sums to be made available as capital for the have-not countries which are seeking to develop their industries and to improve their standards of living. I must confess that I feel that any body of lesser stature than a royal commission would find grave difficulty in covering the whole sweep of this extremely serious problem. 
I have seen, by the courtesy of  Senator Drake-Brockman,  a proposal for an amendment which I understand will later be moved by the Government. Also I have heard or read in a New South Wales newspaper details of a proposition which, it is said, will be moved on behalf of the Australian Labor Party. It is only fair that my Party should face the situation which may arise in view of the fact that the 2 major parties each intends to put forward its own proposition. It may be that we will not have the numbers for our proposition. If that is so, we are faced with the situation that if we used our numbers to defeat both propositions nothing would be done for the farming community. Therefore, if we do not have the numbers for our proposition we propose to examine the 2 propositions put forward by the other parties and to decide which will be better in the interests of the fanning community. I am unable to forecast what our decision will be because, while we have received the amendment which will be moved on behalf of the Government, we have not received that which will be moved on behalf of the Opposition. It is only fair that we should wait and see it before we arrive at a decision. 
As there are suggestions in one of the propositions that has been placed before us that instead of a royal commission there shall be a series of individual inquiries with, I must admit, proposals which are designed to achieve some measure of co-ordination, I can only say that I still feel that there is need for a committee of the broad sweep which a royal commission would have. I am a little uncertain as to how these committees based on industry would work. I think the danger of individual committees is that they can come up with something which has hampered primary industry in the past, that is, that the degree to which they are able to achieve what they want from governments frequently depends on the degree of their organisation and the amount of political influence which they are able to exercise. Therefore, I am not entirely happy about the proposition. I shall await the other proposition, as will also other members of my Party, before arriving at a decision. 
Although we have to admit that there is a grave crisis in our primary community, it would be most unwise of us to allow statements that there is a crisis to develop to the stage that they might almost cause panic. What we have to realise is that averaging our prosperity to our population we are the sixth most prosperous country in the world. We must therefore have the resources to give justice to the primary producer and, if those resources are available, we should take whatever action is necessary to give justice to the primary producer. But I would deprecate panic because I believe that panic is one thing which could destroy our prospects of thoroughly rehabilitating not only primary industry but also secondary industry on which it could have serious effect. 
I hope that the question of the primary producer will be approached by all parties on the basis that all that we want to do - all of us - is what is best to assist and improve a deserving section of our economy. I am sure that this will be the approach of most honourable senators. I do not believe that any Party has a monopoly of messiahs, nor do I think that any Party can claim that it has the remedies which are going to solve these problems which are being found to be so difficult of solution in almost every similar country. So far as my Party is concerned we will assist any 
Party which puts forward a desirable proposition for the welfare of the primary producer. The proposition which I have put forward was suggested originally by members of the farming community. I have put it forward as I promised them that I would put it forward. I have not endeavoured to survey the whole ramifications of our problems or to suggest remedies because that would be something for the royal commission to do, if it were appointed. All I have done is to suggest what in our view would be a desirable long term action if associated with the short term policies to which I have referred. Whatever happens, I hope that Parliament in its wisdom will bring into effect those measures which will do most good for the farming community in the present crisis that it faces. 

 - Mr President, I congratulate  Senator Poyser  on his new role as an earnest seeker after truth because it was not always so.  Senator Poyser  has been associated for many years with the Labor movement in Geelong. I recall the election before the Labor split when, as the officer who had the job of posting Labor speakers to various areas, 1 posted  Dr Evatt  to speak in Geelong. The country organiser of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Tripovich,  a close friend of  Senator Poyser,  came to me and said: 'You cannot send him to Geelong because after what happened when he was there last time the electoral committee carried a motion asking that he never be sent there again'. 
 Senator Poyser  ranged over a wide field and the honourable senator enjoyed it. Let me range a bit. 
The honourable senator knows what is coming. Some time later, when the split occurred, there was an allegation that I, had not sent him there because 1 wanted Labor to lose the seat. This close friend of  Senator Poyser, Mr Tripovich,  did not feel inclined to tell the truth as to the reason  Dr Evatt  was not sent there.  Senator Poyser,  although he is a great protagonist of truth, allowed that lie to be propagated throughout Victoria although he knew the truth. 
Seneator  O'Byrne - So what? 
So what? Members of the Labor Party can give it but cannot take it. Every time you give it to them they how). 
If members of the Labor Party have any decency and if they are heard in silence they should also listen in silence. 1 love to hear them howl because then I know that they are hurt. 
 Senator McClelland  has a great deal to say. I have listened night after night while he has spoken in the debate on the motion for the adjournment. He has spoken ad nauseam. He is the second most boring  speaker  to whom I have ever had to listen. I would suggest that if I could put up with him for hour after hour, surely he could put up with someone else for 5 minutes. 
I do not want him to withdraw anything. 
You do not have the guts to repeat what you said. 
You do not have the guts to say what you said. 
 Be a man and admit it. 
That the honourable senator be suspended from the sitting of the Senate. 
Opposition senators -  The 'noes' have it. 
Turning now to another aspect of  Senator Poyser's  remarks, 1 wish to say that I think it is a rather despicable act for an honourable senator to accuse another man because he may not have served in war. I have heard this question argued in the ranks of the Australian Labor Party. Some of the finest men in the Australian Labor Party that I have known have said categorically - and they had war records themselves - that whether or not a man went to war was, in their opinion, his own business. Therefore, I think that it is despicable for anybody, regardless of whether he went to war, to point his finger at another man who may not have done so. 
A lot of people who did not go to war between 1941 and 1945 sent 20-year-old kiddies to war. These people were members of the Australian Labor Party and of a Labor Cabinet. 
That is so. The men who at that time took a prominent- 
Yes, you were engaged in war. 
When  Senator Poyser  was attacking me I heard him in complete silence. I did so because I believe in his right to speak. I believe in freedom of speech. But I am not getting freedom of speech at the moment from the honourable senator or from other honourable senators. 
 Senator Cavanagh  now says that whether you get freedom of speech depends on whether in his opinion you deserve it. Hitler used to adopt the attitude, that there was freedom of speech only for those he thought deserved it. Anyway, to get back to the subject we are discussing, 1 wish to say that during the period when the Australian Labor Party introduced conscription there were members of the Cabinet who were outstanding in the 1916 anti-conscription campaign. One of those men was a reservist in 1914. He took a leading part in the anticonscription campaign. When the Labor Cabinet determined on conscription he sent 20-year-old men to war and he did not resign from the Cabinet. I have never heard  Senator Poyser  attack him. On the contrary,  Senator Poyser  has been one of his most determined supporters. All I want to say is that I hope we will eventually get away from the position where supporters of the Australian Labor Party who went to war point to other people and say: 'You didn't go. You didn't go. You didn't go.' I hope we will have a higher standard of debate from now on. Of course there is another form of conscription. Children are conscripted to go to school. They have to go to school and obey the teacher. When children are conscripted to go into class the teacher has control over them and they have to listen to the teacher. Why is it that the Australian Labor Party supports the right of the teacher to indoctrinate the children with the political views of the teacher? Even the New South Wales Teachers Federation does not stand for that. I suggest to the Australian Labor Party it is adopting a very dangerous point of view if it adopts the attitude that the teacher has the right to force his views on children who are conscripted to listen to him. 
Yes, it is dangerous ground because it means that if I am a teacher and I hold the opposite view and support the war in Vietnam I have the right to force the view on the children that the Vietnam war is a just war. f regret that a party which claims to be the heir to the great traditions of the labour movement of the past should, in regard to the Moratorium Campaign, support the right of a teacher to force his view upon children who have no alternative but to listen because they are conscripted to listen. 1 now come to my next point.  Senator Poyser  wants io know about the documents 1 tabled last night. This is part of his earnest search after truth, a search after truth which he did not pursue in 1954. 1 placed the documents on the table. I had no objection. I challenge him to go to the Communist Party and get it to deny that the document which he has in front of him with the red ticket is not authentic. 
No, you arc not concerned about it because you know it is a Communist document. The other document to which 1 refer contains evidence which has been collected by members of the Democratic Labor Party at universities. Those members can vouch for every one of the statements made. The statement about the children appeared in the Melbourne 'Age'.  Senator Poyser  said that the statement about the children was a DLP statement. It is a statement that appeared in the Melbourne 'Age'.  Senator Poyser  did not even read it. 1 conclude by saying, as I said before, that I am very happy to learn that after all these years  Senator Poyser  is interested in the truth. If he had been interested in the truth in .1954 and denied the allegation that was made against me on that occasion I would respect him as one who believes the truth always. But he believes in the truth when it suits him and he keeps silent when it suits him. 
The Australian Labor Party has made a great deal of the fact that it objects to the use of the gag in another place. I would point out that what has generally caused the gag to be introduced has been the kind of tactics that the Australian Labor Party employed last night. It is a travesty of Parliament when honourable senators get up between 2 a.m. and 3 a.m. with nothing to say and then read 5, 6 or 7 times the same leading article from a newspaper. They get hold of all kinds of documents and read them out. That is the kind of action which originally caused the gag to be introduced. If honourable senators continue in that way they will cause the gag to come into this chamber. In all the years 1 have been in this chamber I have refused to vote for the gag. I have had requests from the Government and from  Senator 
Murphy to vote for the gag. It will be a bad day if the gag is ever introduced into the Senate. We have got on without it. The party that has had the advantage of our refusal ever to use the gag has generally been the Opposition. If the Opposition plays the game and does not make a joke and a travesty of Parliament as it did last night my party will continue to refuse to use the gag. If the Australian Labor Party is going to go on as lt did last night and carry on in a way which is a disgrace to the Parliament of this country it will reduce the Senate to the position to which the other place was reduced the other night. As far as I am concerned, if that is the way the Australian Labor Party wants it that is the way it will get it. If it acts in a decent way there will be no gag but if it forces the gag into the Senate then it must accept the responsibility, and the result will not be to its advantage. 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister whether action can be taken to expedite an answer to question 101 whichI asked 6 or 7 weeks ago - on 10th March.I noticed that, during an answer today, the Minister said that sometimes answers to questions required research. Three parts of the question could be answered yes or no. The other part required practically no research. 
In this debate the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  is representing the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony).  While I watched the Minister in all his stark loneliness on the front bench discussing this subject he reminded me of a famous character in literature whose name was Casablanca. He was the hero in a famous poem which began as follows: 
The boy stood on the burning deck whence all but he had fled 
I am pleased to see that the Minister is now supported by a representative of one of the Government parties. Until a few seconds ago one of the Government parties had left him completely without support. The Democratic Labor Party supports the motion. We supported a similar motion when it was put forward about 12 months ago. Nothing has happened to alter our previous attitude since the decision of the Senate was arrived at on that occasion to oppose the lifting of the ban on the export of merino rams. In fact, earlier this year when the Government announced that it proposed to lift the ban the Democratic Labor Party, through its Leader  Senator Gair,  protested publicly and said that the ban should not be lifted. 
I do not propose to argue this issue very extensively because the arguments I advanced 12 months ago, which appear in Hansard, are still valid. A further reason why I may not argue too extensively about this urgency motion is that it was sprung upon my Party completely by surprise. We would have expected the courtesy of an advance copy of the motion, which apparently was supplied to the leaders of other parties. No copy was supplied to me as Acting Leader of the DLP. I would not even have known that this matter was to be brought on for debate had I not in the dining room casually asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  about the business to be conducted this afternoon, and he was able to inform me. On all occasions that we propose to move urgency motions we will see that the leaders of all the other parties receive the courtesy of advance copies of those motions. 
My main objection to the lifting of the embargo, apart from the arguments I advanced 12 months ago, is to the manner in which it is being done. The Senate made a decision which clearly indicated that if legislation to authorise the lifting of the ban were presented to Parliament it would be defeated. The will of Parliament was clearly expressed that it would not consent to legislation if it were brought forward to lift the embargo on the export of merino rams. If the Government realises that there is a strong division of opinion in the community, why does it not present legislation on an issue such as this? Parliament clearly indicated that it would not pass such legislation. 
The Senate is an integral part of the Parliament and what the Senate decides is part of the decision of Parliament.  Senator Prowse  is attempting to confuse Ihe issue. If legislation to lift the ban were presented to Parliament, it would be defeated. When the Senate made its decision the Government announced, obviously with one eye on the forthcoming House of Representatives election, that consideration of the matter would be postponed. 
If it is an unfair statement, why was it that when I and others before the election last year repeatedly asked the Government about its intentions so that the question of the embargo could be considered in the course of the election campaign, we were met with evasive action on every occasion? The Government made it clear that wild horses would not drag from it prior lo the election a declaration of its intention on this issue. After the election was over the Government announced its intention, but that announcement was made prior to the sittings of the Parliament. Why did the Government not wait until Parliament had met so that Parliament could have taken action? Instead, having evaded the issue before the election, the Government took action before Parliament met and indicated that in this particular case the Executive proposed to arrogate to itself a power which 1 believe it has no right to possess. 
An extremely dangerous tendency has arisen for Cabinet to use Executive powers to override the will of Parliament. There have been 3 examples of this tendency. Firstly, Parliament would not have consented to lift the ban on the export of merino rams. The ban was lifted by executive action. Secondly, the Senate took certain action in regard to the Canberra Abattoir. The Government by executive action once again overrode the will of the Senate. Thirdly, on the question of the site of the new and permanent Parliament House, the 
Government again arrogated lo itself executive power to override a parliamentary decision. What does this mean? lt means that if this tendency is permitted to continue the Government at a future date on a new issue on which there is a division of opinion in the community can say to the House of Representatives, where it has superior numbers: 'What is your opinion?' lt can then say to the Senate, where it does not have greater numbers: 'What is your opinion?' If there is a division of opinion between the two Houses it can say, as it has said on 3 occasions: 'Because there is a division of opinion we have the right to make the decision'. Honourable senators can see for themselves the dangers which such an attitude on the part of the Government can open up for the future. 
I am completely unconvinced that the ban should have been lifted by anything that has happened since the decision of the Senate was reached 12 months ago. In Victoria some people believe thai the ban should be lifted, but the overwhelming majority of people engaged in the wool industry - and I have talked to many of them - is entirely and irrevocably opposed to the lifting of the ban. I believe that the Australian Wool Industry Conference was entirely wrong in the attitude it adopted. After opposition to the lifting of the embargo had been manifested and the AWIC was asked to reconsider the matter, it was entirely wrong for the Conference to adopt the discourteous attitude that it would refuse even to consider it. 
I understand from what 1 have read and from what  Senator Webster  has said that the Conference announced that it would not reconsider the matter. What did it mean if it did noi mean that it would not reconsider the matter? 
I understood that the Government informed the Conference that it was holding the matter up and that in those circumstances it would like the AWIC to reconsider the matter. I also understood that the Conference said no. 1 think that that was a discourteous attitude to adopt and it reflects no credit upon that body. Knowing there was a strong feeling in the community the Conference was entitled at least to give some consideration to that feeling, rather than to brush it off. I have never been impressed by the argument that we must try to promote the breeding of fine wools abroad because it is necessary for the future of the industry. 1 think it is a very questionable argument that attempts should be made to increase production of primary products when so much difficulty is experienced in getting a reasonable price for them. I think that people who say that are not taking into consideration one of the biggest factors against wool at present and one which will be against wool in future. I refer to the increase in the use of central heating. If one goes into figures and discusses with economists what might be the prospects in regard to central heating I think one will have to reconsider many ideas regarding the future of our woo! industry. 
I shall continue with my remarks, despite the attempt by  Senator Prowse  lo put me off the track. I have examined the conditions on which the Government authorised the relaxation of the ban and I am nol very impressed. Great emphasis has been given to the fact that not more than 300 merino rams can be exported, but it has been stated quite clearly that that figure will be reviewed annually. If the Government is in a position to examine this matter every 12 months, obviously it will be guided by the Australian Wool Industry Conference. But nobody knows exactly how far action of this type will continue. The Government has indicated that it will noi take any notice of parliamentary control; it has said simply that Parliament is out and that this is a matter which will be determined by executive power. My view has always been opposed to the excessive use of executive power. Years ago in England a motion was successfully moved in the House of Commons to Ihe effect that the power of the Crown had increased, was increasing and ought to be diminished. If action by the Executive is to continue in this way in Australia as it has in the case of the merino rams, the Canberra Abattoir, the new and permanent parliament house and other matters, the day will surely come when we will be debating the question that the power of Cabinet or of the Executive has increased, is increasing and ought to be diminished. 

 Senator MAUNSELL (Queensland) 15.7] - I oppose the resolution and, in doing so, in the limited time that I have I should like to recount the history of this ban on the export of merino rams and what has happened as a result. As the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  has said, the ban was imposed by regulation. The issue was nol submitted to the industry or lo Parliament and the ban applied to all sheep. Naturally there was a hullabaloo after that among breeders of British breeds, so eventually the ban was relaxed to include merino stud rams only. About 5 years later it was decided that some of the flock rams might be just as important as some of the stud rams and it was a bit hard to tell the difference, so another regulation was brought in - still without consulting the industry or the Parliament - that it should now apply to all merino rams. 
 I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the achievement of large bulk carrying ships in reducing transport costs of mineral exports, could the Minister advise whether there is any possibility of using similar ships to reduce the heavily increasing freight costs on our agricultural exports? 
1 desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister noted the views recently expressed by a number of economists and commentators that the present crisis in rural industry calls for the abandonment of the family farm and its replacement by large units, of the collective farm type, owned by big corporations? Can the Government give an assurance that it favours and will continue to support preservation of the family farm which deserves to exist as a way of life? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that, following an address to the Australian Council of Trade Unions by  Dr Coombs,  a committee was set up for liaison between unions and the National Arts Council. 
Is a financial grant under consideration by the Arts Council for trade union activity in the arts. 
What assurance is there that money so made available from Commonwealth funds will not be available more for purposes of propaganda and politics than for the arts. 
Do prospective beneficiaries include the Victorian Meat Workers' Union, the Amalgamated Engineering Union, the Waterside Workers' Union Film Unit, the Trade Union Education and Research Centre of Sydney, and the Melbourne May Day Committee, all of which have been active in disseminating pro-Communist propaganda. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, refers to the announcement of the personnel of a committee on women's employment which has been appointed by the Minister for Labour and National Service. I note that the female representation on the committee consists of Miss Pauline Griffin, Miss Joyce  Henriott  Miss Myra  Lillywhite.  Miss A. M.  Mogoffin  Professor Jean Martin and Miss  Lenore  Cox. Does the Minister not think, in view of the effect that this committee might have on family life, that there should be included on it some married women who have had experience of running a family? 
I address my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Will he confer with leaders of other parties to see whether it is possible to reach agreement on the arrangement of the business of the Senate so that in the few remaining weeks of the session we may concentrate on proposed legislation and reduce, as far as is possible, debate on other matters? Is not this necessary if we are to avoid, in the dying hours of the session, debate on legislation without proper consideration having been given to it? 
I address a question to the Leader of the Government. What Ls the position regarding the proposals which were mooted early in the session for streamlining and making. more effective the procedures and the session times of the Senate and the Parliament? As the Democratic Labor Party supported these proposals which were put forward initially by  Senator Murphy  and many members of other Parties supported them also, have the proposals been bogged down in Party caucuses? 
I ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. When will the Senate be able to debate the proposal for a series of standing committees to operate in the Senate, which proposal has met with much approval from many quarters and which should not be sidetracked? 
In the industrial field at the present time a very important debate is proceeding on the respective merits of arbitration and collective bargaining, the latter usually being supported by the threat of strike action. This is a very serious debate because  until  now the general body of the Australian trade union movement has supported arbitration. When one looks at events which have been occurring in the past year or two one can understand how certain trade unions which have stuck to arbitration are becoming disillusioned with it, particularly when they see how the unions which do not stick to arbitration but which threaten or use strike action appear to be profiting thereby. 
One organisation which has always been loyal to the arbitration system is the professional engineers organisation. I would say without hesitation that it has always been loyal to the arbitration system, but the way  in which things are going now is convincing its members that that loyalty is getting them nowhere and that their only hope is to do the kind of thing that has been done by the pilots and other people, that is, to use the undoubted industrial power that they have through strikes. At recent meetings of their organisation they have instructed their leaders that unless something acceptable is achieved by 15th June 1970 they will proceed to other action. That would be regrettable. It would involve a very serious situation as most of these men are in the employ of the Government. I hope that the Government will take some action prior to that date to prevent anything happening. 1 am like a lot of other people in that I am a little disturbed about things that I hear regarding the organisation of our Public Service and the treatment that is often received by its employees. I have come to the conclusion that the organisation of our Public Service is, to a large extent, at the stage at which it was in about 1940 and that it is completely incompetent to deal with the tremendous increase that has taken place since then. I am impressed by the remarkably tortuous system that has to be followed for the purpose of making appointments, and I cannot help noticing that in the case of wage determinations some sections in the employ of the Government seem to do all right, particularly the tall poppies in the Public Service, while other sections appear to get the brush off. When they attempt to improve their wages and conditions they are fobbed off by every possible obstacle, legal and otherwise. I am one who thinks that there may be something to be said for a reorganisation in our Public Service. I think it is time that we had another look at it because it does not seem to me to be calculated to deal properly with the Public Service as it has expanded over the years. 
The Government should be warned that there is intense dissatisfaction among professional staff and technically skilled staff - persons, for example, such as members of the Association of Professional Engineers, the Association of Architects, Engineers, Surveyors and Draughtsmen of Australia and others. The one with which I am particularly concerned is the Professional Officers Association. This body, in its membership, has just over 4,000 professional officers, all in the Commonwealth Public Service or Commonwealth instrumentalities, and many in senior positions including the Second Division of the Commonwealth Public Service. Most of the Association's members are in the professions of engineering and science and therefore they are skilled men - men who are very scarce at the present time. 
Over the past 3 years they have experienced continual frustration in their attempts to get reasonable satisfaction of their salary claims. The result is that these highly skilled professional men are being left behind. Other people who are infinitely less skilled are getting a better deal because they are able to exert more industrial pressure and in some cases use, or threaten to use, the strike weapon. 1 think it is scandalous when people who are prepared to do the right thing and act as the Government says they should act and are prepared to resort to the arbitration system, have placed in their way every possible obstacle, legal and otherwise, and are prevented from getting justice and satisfaction. 
What is the result of all this? The result is seen in the pronounced shortage of engineers in Australia. That shortage is due to the fact that people in the engineering industry are finding that they are not being rewarded as are people in other professions and industries. The Secretary of the Association has provided figures which show that the number of engineers per 1 ,000 persons engaged in civilian employment in Australia is very low compared to other countries. In the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics the number is 19.4, in Germany it is 12.7, in Japan it is 10.9, in Sweden 10.7, in the United States of America 9.8, in Canada 8.3, in Taiwan 6.3 and in Australia 6.1. That is a scandalous state of affairs. 
I understand that the Minister concerned has said that it is probably the fault of the universities for not training them, but I would say that the position largely can be ascribed to the fact that people are finding that the remuneration and status available to them as professional engineers, particularly in the employ of the Government, is not sufficiently attractive for them to want to qualify. The shortage of engineers is having very serious effects upon our industry because, as the Secretary of the Association has pointed out, a country like Sweden is able to develop her own defence aircraft and export the design of telecommunications equipment to Australia, while Japan is able to establish an endless variety of capital intensive industries like steel processing, importing 40% of the raw materials from Australia. This may explain, he said, why despite our success in developing small units of defence like the Ikara missile and exporting it, we must depend on countries like the United States to develop our major items. 
A tremendous debate is going on in this country at the present time on whether we should allow many of our industries to get into the hands of overseas organisations and on whether we should import so much from overseas. 1 believe that one reason why we have to do it is that the shortage of engineers is such that we cannot do anything else. 
The engineers to whom I have referred have been to arbitration. The last time that they got any satisfactory increase was in 1.961. Everyone knows how inflation has increased since then and the manner in which other industries have obtained wage increases. But they have been left behind. They have been fighting for 3 years. In 1967, 1968 and 1969 they engaged in negotiations in an attempt to use the arbitration system. AH that has happened to the organisations in that period is that they have been involved in costs, legal and otherwise, of $250,000 and have received next to nothing for the outlay. 
That is so. After 3 years in which every conceivable legal excuse and delay was used to stop them from receiving justice, finally when they thought they were getting somewhere the death of one of the judges has now complicated the matter and they are faced with almost having to start all over again. 
The result is - I think this is quite understandable - that mass meetings of these engineers in the employ of the Commonwealth Government have been held in all States. I can give the Senate the wording of the motions that they have carried. They have referred to the fact that they have tried to do the right thing - to use the arbitration system and to have negotiations with the Public Service Board - and they have got nowhere. They say that there has been a complete failure by the Arbitration system to award just and adequate salaries to professional engineers. They say straight out - this is the point I want to stress - that if nothing satisfactory is done by 1 5th June they will consider appropriate industrial action. 
The difficulty for them is that while this has been happening members of other organisations in the employ of Australian governments have simply gone on strike. What happened? When they went on strike, instead of their having to wait, having letters going backwards and forwards and having all the delays, suddenly people were appointed to deal with them direct and they received satisfaction within a month or two. So, what it boils down to is that the attitude of the Public Service Board is steadily convincing a strong section of its employees that it is useless to try to deal with the Board and useless to try to deal with arbitration, but that if they go on strike - if professional engineers go on strike we know what will happen: works will close down everywhere- 
That is so. On the basis of the experience of other employees, if the professional engineers go on strike and hold up the works there will be a rush to placate them, as there is always a rush to placate the pilots, when they go on strike. The pilots, of course, are going to be the tycoons of the future because they are using their industrial strength to a degree that I have no hesitation in characterising as straightout greed. I hope that that will not happen in the case of other organisations. But I point again to the powerful industrial strength of the professional engineers employed by the Commonwealth Government. I hope that the Government will take the threat seriously. These are people who for 3 years tried to get somewhere but got nowhere, and now somebody has died and they are stuck up again. Professional men will not put up with this situation when they can see other organisations using the strike weapon and can see that when those organisations use the strike weapon their demands are satisfied. 
 No. It states that the Government should have a look at the question. It does not say that the tax should be abolished. It  asks  whether that would be desirable. I do not think that that procedure would upset anybody terribly or overthrow the Constitution. If the position is that we cannot properly deal with this proposal because of the motion on the notice paper moved by  Senator Little  in regard to Commonwealth and State financial relations, we ought to stop dealing with anything at all that is related to taxation. I have never heard such a far fetched or strained argument in all my life as the suggestion that the Senate cannot ask the Government to examine the question of federal estate duty because there is on the notice paper a proposal for a commission to examine the question of Commonwealth and State financial relations. 
I am surprised that  Senator Murphy  should rebuke  Senator Byrne  by saying that he heard about the proposition only at the last minute. In the brief period that  Senator Gair  was overseas and I was Acting Leader of my Party, at one stage it seemed to be par for the course for amendments to be proposed on this side of the chamber without my knowing anything about them. There were occasions when proposed amendments were produced out of a hat and I was not given a copy. Some people were told of the proposals, but it appeared to me that I was never told. I received some very nice apologies. On each occasion I was overlooked I received a most polite apology, but after  Senator Murphy  has offended 4 or 5 times within the last couple of weeks I think it is a little tough for him to turn on us and ask why we do not observe the proprieties. 
The Minister for 
Air will recall that some time ago I. asked whether changes had been made in the conditions governing the use of VIP planes and, as I remember, he replied that the matter was under consideration and we would hear of the proposed changes later. It appears obvious that the proposed changes are already operating because I have seen a Press statement to the effect that the Leader of the Opposition was permitted to take a member of his family- 
In the other House.It seems to be a very tender point- 
 I agree and withdraw that. The Leader ofthe Opposition in another place, according to this Press statement, was permitted to take a member of his family on a visit to New Guinea. I simply say to the Minister that the changes have been made. Apparently they are operating. Why cannot members of the Senate know what are now the provisions governing the use of VIP aircraft by members of all parties? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Will the Government take advantage of the impending visit of the Prime Minister of Canada,  Mr Trudeau,  to obtain his advice, based on Canadian experience, on the best methods of avoiding wheat surpluses and of selling wheat? 
I intervene in this debate, but I do not intend to speak for a very lengthy period. I feel, in view of correspondence and other representations that I have been receiving, that it is necessary to draw the attention ot the Government to what is a serious position in our rural industries. I know that there are some who say that we face a crisis - I am one of them - and there are others who are more optimistic and say that there could be a crisis unless we take effective action to deal with the situation. They believe that such effective action can be taken. But the knowledge that something is going to be done is poor consolation to a number of people who at present inform me thai they are faced with Foreclosure and the loss of their farms. I want to draw attention to some of the letters which I have received. I have received one from an elector at Kootingal who said: 
If yon could advertise and ask for information regarding the plight of people on the land you and all the Government members would probably receive a shock at the information supplied lo you. 
Many have left their places. 1 believe nol far from here the position of apple producers alone is disastrous and some arc bankrupt. We will certainly lose our farm. Alternatively, if you could procure from the Rural Reconstruction Board the figures and information concerning those who have applied for last ditch relief you would also get some idea of rural conditions 
Wheal places cannot be sold because of the quotas . . . Even large pastoral holdings including merino studs are now advertised for sale and are being sold. 
The letter goes on in the same vein. The day after the farmers' march in Melbourne I had a deputation from a number of dairy farmers who told me that they were in a most serious situation. Two of them told me that they expected to lose their farms. They mentioned that when they were in a desperate position and thought that perhaps  they could get money to tide them over for a while, a certain firm had lent them money at 14% but was now threatening to take over their farms. I have heard from one of the men since that he has received notice of action being taken. 
1 do not want to mention the name of the firm until I have definitely checked the facts. 1 do not think it would be fair to do that until 1 have checked the facts. 
Yes. I received another letter this morning from a Victorian elector at Wangaratta who said: 
As you are well aware a lol of farmers when they purchase livestock are financed by stock selling firms. One of these, Younghusbands, has informed all its clients that they must pay up by June 30th 1970. It appears that Younghusband: is being taken over by the British Australian Tobacco Co. ... 
This move of calling in finance will force a lot of farmers to sell their stock before they are fu to be sold and will mean more hardship to many farmers. In some cases it will mean the end. 
I might add that 1 owe Younghusbands some money and that I received notice today to pay up by June 30th. 
I have spoken to potato growers in recent weeks. 1 went up to Ballarat and met a number of them. They informed me that many of their people are in a desperate position. As a result of my visit 1 am receiving letters and communications from farmers who simply say: 'What can 1 do? Where can I go? Is there somewhere that I can get assistance?' 1 wrote to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  with regard to their dilemma in the hope that there would be an avenue open to them. The Minister replied as follows: 
I refer to your letter of 26th March concerning the problems being faced by dairy farmers with regard to rising costs, depressed returns and the availability of finance. 1 do not know of any existing Commonwealth Government organisation that is able to provide a moratorium on interest and capital payments. However, the marginal dairy farm reconstruction scheme, which is at present being negotiated with the State Governments, is designed specifically to assist those farmers at the lower end of the income scale to adjust to changing economic circumstances. 
That is a little surprising because I had understood that these fellows were hoping that they would be able by some means to keep their farms and that the scheme would mean that many of them would be assisted to get off their properties. I wrote also to the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  and asked whether there is any place to which a farmer in this situation could have recourse. The Treasurer replied on 7th May in these terms: 
Although current monetary policy is for some restraint on bank lending, banks have been specifically asked, and have agreed, to continue (heir long-standing favourable treatment of rural producers. Banks could not, however, be expected to assist in propositions that are not judged to be commercially viable. Indeed, it is possible that in some cases provision of further credit would not be in the best interests of farmers. 
That is a rather remarkable statement. He continued:  1 am not aware of any institution to which dairy farmers can resort for special examination of their situation. You would no doubt bc aware, however, that the Victorian Rural Finance and Settlement Commission gives special attention to last resort assistance in cases of individual hardships, i might add that debt moratorium is primarily a matter for the Stale Government. 
Finally, I should like to say that the Commonwealth has made an offer to provide up to $25 m over a period of 4 years to the States for purposes nf a marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme. The main object of the scheme is to assist producers on dairy farms, which have insufficient potential lo become viable economic units while based on the sale of milk or cream for manufacturing purposes. The scheme will enable these producers voluntarily to dispose of their land and improvements to the State al a fair market value. After allowing for redundant improvements on the land the State may then dispose of the land and useful improvements on the basis of the most practicable and economic land use wilh the object of building up other rural properties lo economic levels and so permitting reasonable living standards. The details of the proposed arrangement have been the subject of negotiations with the Slate Governments over an extended period of time but so far only Western Australia has accepted the Commonwealth oiler. 
From reading that letter it appears that nothing much can be done for the ordinary farmer who is in debt, who faces a serious situation and who is looking around for someone who can help him overcome his present difficulties. In most cases it is not the farmer who is at fault. We have been told ad nauseam that governments have called on farmers to be efficient and they have become efficient. But what has happened is that farmers' costs have increased and the prices of their produce have decreased over an extended period, and a number of them, particularly those who are  buying farms and who have to pay interest on loans and so on, face an extremely difficult situation. So they have asked me as a parliamentarian: 'What can be done?' We are told by the Commonwealth authorities that very little can be done. The only suggestion is that in some cases farmers will be assisted to get off their farms, which is not what they want. I realise that one can use all the arguments in the world to suggest that things can be rationalised, and that it is the easiest thing in the world to sit down and draw up a blueprint which is designed to enable these people to get off their farms. But in most cases they are people who have the land in their blood and who want to stay there. They are hoping that something can be done. 
I have had a look at this matter, and I recall that in the depression years the Government held a moratorium on farmers' debts for a time and then they went before a farmers' debt adjustment board which tried to see whether it would be possible, for example, to lump their liabilities together and to arrange for repayment over a period of years. At that time there was at least a kind of tribunal to which these people could refer and which could examine their case. There does not seem to be anything like that at the present time. It appears to be a hopeless situation. Perhaps the current situation will improve. There are always people who say: 'Things may get better. We may be lucky enough to have droughts overseas'. There are always people who say that the situation may improve, but as it is at present, these people are getting panicky about it. It is an extremely serious position. 
People arc coming to members of Parliament and saying: 'I am getting notice that I either pay up by such a date or else'. I do not think we can ignore these representations because older members of the Senate will recall that the great depressions in Australia's history always began with a crisis in the rural industries. This was the first indication of the coming storm. So I appeal to the Government to take cognisance of the very serious situation which faces these farmers. Reference is made in the letter which I quoted to the fact that it is a matter for the States. If it is a matter for the States, there can be collaboration between the Commonwealth and the States. But action definitely ought to be taken through the Australian Agricultural Council or other relevant bodies to set up some form of tribunal to which these people can have recourse to see whether they can be helped or to see what the final determination of their cases is. I do not think that they should be left, as some of them are being left, practically in a state of hopeless despair. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services advise what decision, if any, has been reached on the petition of a number of blind people and their helpers for the provision of newly adapted radar systems for blind people? 
I desire to ask a question of the Leader of the Government. In reference to the proposed ban on South African sports teams, does the Minister agree that politics should be kept out of sport? Why should South African teams be banned and teams from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics welcomed, when the Red Army has repressed liberty in the Baltic countries, Poland, Romania, Hungary, Austria and a host of other countries? Why is there not consistency? 
Following on the question asked a few minutes ago by  Senator Keeffe,  will the Leader of the Government in the Senate confirm that there has not been one word of discussion on the question of atomic development between the Australian Democratic Labor Party and the Government? Will the Leader of the Government agree that we should all feel very sorry for  Senator Keeffe? 
If it has taken 15 years to get to this stage I do not see why we should be high pressured into getting on with the job when we have only received the Bill within the last couple of days. I have been impressed by the large amount of evidence that has been placed before me that this Bill, if implemented as it stands, may have very serious effects upon a very important section of the medical profession, that is, the general practitioners who, I am informed, constitute 40% of the medical profession in this country and who, if I am to judge from the number of them who have got in touch with me individually and in a representative capacity to protest against the Bill, regard its provisions as seriously threatening their future. I believe that there is abundant evidence of the truth of their claim that if the Bill is passed as it stands it will discourage young medical men from undertaking one of the most important duties in the community, the duty of the general practitioner. 
The general practitioner is important in the towns and cities but he is particularly important in the country areas. We are all familiar with the difficulties that have existed in the past few years in many country areas where people have had difficulty in inducing a general practitioner to reside in their area. With all the evidence that we have of the serious effect that the Bill as it stands could have on the situation of the general practitioner I feel that we have to be concerned over what may happen. I feel that this could seriously discourage members of the medical profession from going into that field. I am informed, and I believe what I am told, that there are already signs of a falling off in the number who are prepared to undertake that career, and in those circumstances I would not be prepared to do anything which would so gravely prejudice the position of the general practitioner that within a few years we could be deprived of what is a most important element in our medical community. 
I have seen and I have read carefully the statements that are made in regard to the question of differential rates. I think the general practitioner has a legitimate grievance and I think that there are indications of injustice and ineffectiveness in a number of provisions that have been inserted in the Bill. In those circumstances it seems to me that this is pre-eminently a Bill that should be held over until the members of the profession themselves have had an opportunity to look at it. I believe that the amount of discussion that has gone on among them in recent months must have an effect in inducing them to reach acceptable agreements and compromises. I, for one, because 1 feel that it is vital that the position of the general practitioner should not be prejudiced because he is most important in the community, believe therefore that we should hold this Bill over for a couple of weeks until the Australian Medical Association has reached a determination and then we will be able to go on in a much better situation to reach a decision. I hope nobody will suggest that this is just an attempt to induce further delay and to further hold up the implementation of the Health Bill. 
So far as the general provisions of the Bill give a better deal for the ordinary member of the community my Party fully supports it but we say that this is a case where haste is not justified and when negotiations ought to take place. 1 suppose we have had an outstanding example of this in this Parliament in the last week, where something was embarked upon in haste and, I understand, this morning a decision was made not to go further but now to embark upon negotiations. I hope the opportunity will be taken at this point to let the Australian Medical Association at this important assembly on 1st June discuss the matter and seek to arrive at a decision which will be acceptable to all the parties. There are a few more matters which will probably be discussed during the Committee stage. My Party is not happy with the proposals for very important actions relating to this Bill to be taken by regulation. We are always suspicious of proposals to that effect and we will examine very carefully those provisions before deciding our attitude. We believe that the claim of the ophthalmologists for the remedy of a provision which they claim is unjust and inequitable from the point of view of the ordinary member of the community is justified and we will support the amendment which will be put forward in the interests of the ophthalmologists. 
I will not delay the Senate any further except to say once again that any health scheme must depend upon the willing cooperation of the medical profession. There is no more important section of the medical profession than the general practitioners and if by waiting a little and by allowing time for cool discussion and negotiation we can reach a point - or we can hope to reach a point - where all sections will be satisfied, we ought to be prepared to do that. I therefore commend to the Senate the amendment of my Party in which we say that further consideration of the Bill should be postponed until the meeting of the assembly of the Australian Medical Association has arrived at decisions and communicated them to the Government, the meeting to be held on 1st, 2nd and 3rd June. 
My Party would not be able to vote for the amendment as it stands. We feel that it would strike at the whole existence of the funds. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation what is the present position of the tribunal under, I believe. Professor Isaac which the Parliament set up a year or two ago to deal with industrial issues affecting airline pilots. Can the Minister say whether it now appears that the pilots fight major industrial disputes by going on strike or threatening to go on strike because they realise the industrial power that they possess by virtue of the immense cost to the airlines of a lay-off? Is this method to be accepted as the normal method by which pilots achieve their aims? 
The Democratic Labor Party will support the motion far the disallowance of the regulation. We will do so as much as anything because of the very welcome assurance that we have been given by the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  that if the regulation is disallowed legislation to cover the matter will be necessary. I would hope that when the legislation is being considered the opportunity will be taken to examine the operations of the Flight Crew Officers industrial Tribunal. 1 am one of a number of people who have very grave doubts as to its efficacy. J think that without doubt it was conceived in a moment of panic. I question also whether in the appointment of the arbitrator the Government acted wisely. I do not question the efficiency, the ability or the integrity of Professor Isaac, but I question his experience in the handling and determination of disputes such as this. I feel that the Government would have been much better advised to have sought an arbitrator from the ranks of those people who are available in the community and who have had experience in the handling of industrial disputes such as this. 
I am one of a number of people in the community who are disturbed at the fact that an industry which is of vital importance to Australia appears to be in a situation where, when the employees' side desires certain action, it is becoming par for the course for it to say 'We threaten to go on strike', or to go on strike with the full realisation that the immense losses involved in every day of strike can enable them to force capitulation .There must be a point to which their demands are justified, but the feeling in the community at the moment is that they have now reached a situation where, like Alexander, they are looking around for fresh worlds to conquer, trying to think out new demands to make and to enforce because they have a stranglehold on the community. 
I do not know if I read rightly in the Press, but the other day I saw a statement to the effect that a strike was being threatened because 2 pilots were going to be superannuated at the age of 55 years. I understood that considerable sums were given to pilots in superannuation for the reason that, as they claimed, by virtue of their onerous occupation they could become burnt out at an early stage of their careers. Having obtained astronomical sums in superannuation on the ground that they are burnt out at an early period of their lives, they then turn round and threaten to go on strike because 2 men may be superannuated as air pilots at the age of 55 years. I think we have reached the stage when we have to consider whether the community can stand by while an essential service is treated in this way. 1 had much sympathy with the pilots in the early stages because 
I believed that they had a very difficult and onerous task. But. as 1 said before, I believe that there is a point of justice. I believe that they are destroying the sympathy of the community for their cause by the manner in which they are ali the time standing over the community and saying: You do this, or else.' We have reached the stage when the motto of the Australian Federation of Air Pilots could be taken from that well known entertainer, Liberace: They cried all the way lo the bank. 
 I agree entirely with what  Senator Cant  has said. The manner in which this Bill has been presented to Parliament reflects no credit on the people associated with its presentation. It has been presented to us in a way which makes it almost impossible effectively to deal with it without an adjournment of at least a week to study its provisions. For some strange reason there is an urgent demand that this measure bc passed now. I do not know why there is such urgency, unless it is anticipated that there will be trouble at the coming meeting of the Australian Medical Association. I do not know why the Australian Labor Party is helping to push it through, particularly in view of what  Senator Cant  has said. 
From what  Senator Cant  has just said one would hope that his Party would move for a week's adjournment of this debate in order to give us time to study some of the problems which  Senator Cant  has said are almost impossible of solution. 1 have heard a suggestion that the ALP wishes this Bill to be passed at once in the hope of using it against the Liberal Party in the campaign for the Victorian elections. I do not know whether that is true. All I say is that the way we are obliged to deal with this legislation is most unfair. When the debate on this Bill opened yesterday afternoon we were handed a list of over 30 amendments to be moved by the ALP. What opportunity have we had to examine them and to discuss them with our Party? For most of yesterday afternoon we were engaged in discussions on the Bill. As the member of my Party who is handling the Bill I had to be present in the chamber. This morning at 8.30 I had to attend a meeting in connection with the Senate Select Committee on Drug Abuse and Drug Trafficking. At. 9 o'clock I had to attend a subcommittee meeting in connection with the South Pacific region. I have had to be present in the chamber today and yet I am supposed on behalf of my Party to deal with the proposed amendments. As yet I have not even been able to read a number of them. 
All honourable senators realise that in normal circumstances this debate would have been adjourned for a week after the introduction of the Bill. It is scandalous that legislation as important as this should be treated as it has been treated. For some reason there is collusion to force the Bill through in circumstances which prevent its being properly debated. It is my task to act for my Party in handling this Bill, but I have not been given time to read the proposed amendments. If this is the way that Parliament is to be managed in future, all I can say is that the only result can be complete discrediting of the parliamentary processes. I want to register my protest at the cavalier manner in which the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  has treated this Parliament. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party will support the amendment. Wc believe that it is necessary in order to remove from the Bill something which in our opinion is discriminatory and unjust. I do not intend to labour all the issues involved because I think  Senator McClelland  has dealt with them fully. All I want to say is that I. like other members of Parliament, have been lobbied intensively over recent weeks. Ophthalmologists have come to me as individuals and as representatives of groups and organisations. I told them that 1 had received a submission from the Austraiian Medical Association on 1st May which contained its views on the Bill but did not contain anything, as far as I could see, about ophthalmologists. They informed me that they had expected the AMA to take up their case but they had been let down and had been compelled to fight their own battle. That involved me and other members of my Party in quite a few man hours in hearing these people because they came along in considerable force to put their case. We listened to their case, we thought it was just and we support and will vote for the amendment. 
 I refer to the statement by the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  that representations were made to the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  by opthalmologists in regard to prescription of spectacles and that the Minister has been unable to take any action in regard to this National Health Bill because he has not had time to properly analyse and examine it. Yesterday the Senate was handed a Bill and 30 amendments. There has been no time to analyse or examine them. The Minister gave instructions that the Senate should get on and make decisions although he was not prepared to make a decision himself. He has already had a week but he has not had time properly to examine and determine this matter. Yet having demanded for himself full time to examine the matter he instructs his representatives in the Senate to say - without any time at all for the Senate to examine the amendments - that the Senate should vote on the amendments.  I  think this is a scandalous example of one law for the Minister and another law for the Senate. 
Without labouring the point, this is an example of the difficulty in which we have been placed by having to discuss and consider these matters without any opportunity for preparation. There are references in clause 8 to prescribed medical services rendered by persons approved by the Director-General of Health. Normally in a case such as this, with a reasonable time allowed for debate, I would have got in touch with a person who was qualified as a dentist or dental practitioner in the way referred to in the Bill and 1 would have asked his advice. I would have got advice from other people. But I have no advice on this matter at all. Honourable senators on this side have been asking: 'What are prescribed medical services?' We are placed in an impossible position in trying to adjudicate on this matter. [ can only throw myself on the mercy of the Minister and ask: Can you please give us some information, because you have not given us any time to seek information ourselves? 
My Party will not support the amendment. From what we have heard from the 2 reports which  Senator McClelland  quoted, we agree that there should be provision for a regular re-examination of the fees but we have not heard anything which proves to our satisfaction that 2 years is the proper period. We have not had time to consult with members of the medical profession and others to get an opinion on it and to decide what would be the right thing to do. In the circumstances we think that the safest thing is to leave the provision as it stands. 
I will be very brief. On Wednesday the Australian Democratic Labor Party moved that this Bill should be postponed so that the Government would be in a position to learn the decisions of the assembly of the Australian Medical Association. Our proposal was defeated with both the Government and the Australian Labor Party voting against it. I congratulate the Government on its second-thought good sense in having taken action in the past 2 days which means that the proposal put forward by the DLP on Wednesday, and defeated then, will now be able to be put into effect. 
I could imagine occasions more appropriate for the discussion of party philosophies on health than the discussion of an amendment such as this. I merely point out that, although a very moving plea has been made by the Australian Labor Party for Commonwealth benefits to be available without contribution, when it moved its amendment to the second reading of the Bill, setting out what ALP policy was, it was said that the Opposition stood for a national health insurance scheme financed from graduating contributions. 
 I now understand that you are saying that people should be eligible without contributing. 
 What you get from here will be paid through the Commonwealth. As the Minister said, we have to make arrangements for the really indigent people in the community to have their contributions paid for them. She has given an example of the extent to which that is done. 1 do not think any Government should be expected to do more than provide for the people who cannot pay their own contributions. They should be assisted. They are being assisted. The suggestion that the wealthy people in this community like our nickel millionaires or our air pilots should have a Commonwealth benefit paid for them without any contribution at all means, I think, imposing a burden upon the ordinary taxpayer because that wealthy person would get a contribution without paying for it and the other people would have to put in the money. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the urgent need to reduce rural costs during the present crisis, will the Treasurer, in framing the Budget, give consideration to making available the  full  petrol tax for road care by municipalities, thus enabling a reduction in municipal rates? 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party will not be supporting the amendment. Before making a decision we waited for the Minister's explanation. Her explanation has satisfied us that the clause should stand as printed. 
 If  I  am permitted to do so under the Standing Orders, I move as an amendment to the proposed amendment: 
Leave out proposed new paragraphs (h) and (k). 
Yes.  
The position of members of my Party is that we can see good reasons for proposed new paragraph (i) and good reasons for proposed new paragraph (j); but we can see no reason at all for proposed new paragraph (k) which, as  Senator Byrne  has pointed out, is completely unnecessary. In regard to proposed new paragraph (h), I do not think any particular reasons have been given for including the names of all shareholders in the fund, the equity held by each in that fund and the names of all directors of that fund. That information would be obtained if proposed new paragraph  0)  were included. It refers to details of the shareholdings of the directors of the fund in certain organisations. So, it seems to us that it would be advisable for these proposed new paragraphs to be put seriatim. If they are put seriatim we will oppose proposed new paragraphs (h) and (k) and we will vote for proposed new paragraphs (i) and  Q). 
The Democratic Labor Party will support the amendment. We find it difficult to believe that it will do much good but we feel that it cannot do any harm. Personally, I wonder what all the row is about. I would hope that the national Parliament would spend 2 hours on future occasions on something more important than this matter. There has been a lot of talk about whether a particular drug ought to be prescribed. The amendment contains no reference to whether a drug ought to be prescribed. The amendment simply states that when a drug is not to be prescribed we ought to be told why. A considerable amount of the discussion tonight was a sheer waste of time. We should have debated more important matters. 

 Senator Dame IVY WEDGWOOD (Victoria) [9.30]  -  I had intended to rise to say what  Senator McManus  has said. I would not have thought that the publication of reasons why a small number of drugs - and surely they would be very few - should not be made available as. pharmaceutical benefits, would have been sufficient to encourage us to debate this matter for such a long time. I add to what  Senator Turnbull  said in congratulating  Senator McClelland.  He was a member of the Senate select committee. Although he was quite opposed to the basic philosophy behind the Committee's report, he spent a tremendous amount of time on the work of that Committee. I think that during this debate he has proven that he has a complete grasp of the health requirements of the community. I endorse what  Senator Turnbull  said. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Did the Commonwealth assist the States to establish additional wheat storages? If so, why were not the additional wheat storages made mouseproof? As I have just been on a tour of northern Victoria an J have seen millions of mice happily gorging themselves on wheat in the new wheat storages provided by the Commonwealth, I ask:  i  this the method that the Commonwealth has adopted to dispose of Australia's wheat surpluses'/ 
ls the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that there is, a serious situation al present in the dried fruit industry in Australia, and particularly in Victoria? ls he aware that it is the opinion of a majority of the growers that the key to the situation is the establishment c&lt;t ;i marketing plan? Does the Minister realise that a referendum whs held under the auspices of the Commonwealth in regard to a marketing plan, but while a majority of the growers agreed with the establishment of the marketing plan the Commonwealth says that it will not implement it because a sufficient percentage of the growers did not vote? In view of the seriousness of the situation will the Commonwealth consider taking the opinion of the majority of the growers and establishing this marketing plan which growers feel is vital if their industry is to be saved? 
by leave - presented from 154 residents of the Stale of Victoria a petition showing that because of uncontrolled shooting for commercial purposes, the population of kangaroos, particularly the big red species is now so low, that they may become extinct; there are insufficient wardens in any State of the Commonwealth to detect or apprehend those who break the inadequate laws which exist: as a tourist attraction, the kangaroo is a permanent source of revenue to this country; and it is an indisputable fact that no species can withstand hunting on such ;i scale, when there is no provision being made for ils future. 
The petitioners pray that the export of kangaroo products be banned immediately, and necessary steps be taken to have all wildlife in Australia brought under Commonwealth control. Only a complete cessation of killing for commercial purposes can save surviving kangaroos. 
Petition received and read. 
 I agree with  Senator Murphy.  A serious position has been created in our community in relation to the. relativity of the emoluments which arc being paid to certain groups for the services which they are performing in the community. 1 think it is all bound up in what I might term a break down in the system of wage regulation which has operated in this community over the last 30, 40 or 50 years. Anybody who examines the industrial scene will see that we are rapidly developing a situation where the trade union official who is loyal to the arbitration system is likely to be shot at and comparisons to his disfavour are going to be drawn between his achievements on behalf of his members and the achievements of the trade union official who decides to ignore arbitration and go in for collective bargaining and, if collective bargaining fails, to go in for strikes. 

 Senator Murphy has compared the conditions of employment of airline pilots and university professors. Everybody knows why airlines pilots are receiving such astronomical sums in wages and remunerations. They realise that every day the aeroplanes are not operating could cost the operators millions of dollars and they realise that they possess industrial power. The airline pilots are determined to use their industrial power. Because of the immense sums involved they have been able to get away with their claims, which has meant that they now receive twice or three times what people who are also employed in responsible positions receive. The airline pilots claim that they occupy a dangerous position. Some of these people are engaged in vocations which involve a certain amount of danger and stress. The situation has been, bluntly, that the airline pilots and their organisations have decided that the way to gel what they want is to go on strike and cause the maximum amount of inconvenience to the community. 1 read the other day that the younger section of the air pilots organisation were suggesting that in future if air pilots intended to go on strike they should do so without warning- in order to cause the maximum amount of inconvenience to the community and to prevent any moves being made by the companies concerned to enable people who were travelling to complete their journeys. This is all bound up with the breakdown of the arbitration system. 
I believe that the arbitration system has been misused by a considerable number of employers in recent years, that they were employing the penalty provisions in the arbitration system in a way in which they should not have been used. I believe in penalties, but I believe also that they should not be used capriciously or too hastily and that they should- not be excessive. I was one of the first to suggest that we needed reforms of the arbitration system. The Government has been very remiss in taking such a long lime to deal with these reforms, lt has allowed to come into existence a situation where it is accepted that no penal clauses will be used, even when they are justified. I agree wilh  Senator Murphy  that a very serious situation exists in this country, lt appears to me that if it is going to be remedied the first thing the Government must do is take very early action to put our system of wage regulation on a proper basis, it is vitally necessary that the Government take steps lo renew the prestige of the arbitration system with the employers and the unionists because I can see a situation developing where arbitration will be swept away and will be replaced by nothing less than the law of the jungle. 
I wish to speak because  Mr Joshua  was a Victorian, and I had a great deal of association wilh him both in the period when I was an official of the Australian Labor Party and later on when I became an official of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. Bob Joshua had 2 great characteristics; the first was kindness and the second was courage. He was a man who in my view never did a mean or contemptible thing.  His  courage was shown, as  Senator Gair  has said, by the fact that when he was a senior employee of a private bank he accepted the position of organiser of the campaign in Ballarat to support the measures taken by the late  Mr Chifley  lor the nationalisation of banking. I think this did  Mr Joshua  credit, but it also did credit to the bank that it took no punitive action against, him. lt also did credit to the bank that, after  Mr Joshua'  lost his seat in the House of Representatives some years later, and although private banks normally are not anxious lo restore to their employment those who have left them, it got in touch with  Mr Joshua  and told him that his position was available if he wished to return. I think thai did credit to both sides. 
I have spoken to men who fought with Bob Joshua in the Middle East and in New Guinea. They told me that he was a man of amazing courage and that on occasions when patrols were being conducted, no matter how close they were to the enemy he was always anxious to go a little bit further. He finished the war as colonel of a South Australian battalion, and a few weeks ago, just prior to Anzac Day, when he was mortally ill he insisted on travelling to Adelaide in the hope that he would be able to march wi:h his old comrades. When he got there he was so ill that he was unable to do so. I can only say that he was a man whose memory I shall always cherish, and in my view, irrespective of political views, he was a great Australian. 
We in the Democratic Labor Party feel great sympathy with the point of view presented by  Senator McClelland.  Unless strong reasons can be given by the Minister to reject the proposed amendments - and we will await them - our present inclination to support them will be followed.  Senator McClelland  referred to low income families. In that regard I wish to read a letter I have received from one of the best known friendly societies in Victoria. The secretary of that society wrote: 
I want to place  before  you certain matters regarding the Bill to amend the National Health Act at present being considered. In particular I refer to those portions concerning the subsidised medical service scheme which was introduced with the purpose of helping low income families. The $39 weekly income was quickly outdated and became $42.50. The Bill now proposes to divide low income families into 3 categories: Class A, with income up to $42.50 weekly; Class B, with income over $42.50 weekly but not exceeding $45.50; Class C, with income over $45.50 but not exceeding $48.50. Medical benefits and public ward hospital benefits in Victoria are expected to cost a family $1.46 weekly. Class A will pay no contributions. Class B will pay one-third contributions and Class C will pay two-thirds contributions. 
The two points I want to make briefly,  Senator, arc  that very few families in my experience whose income is under $48.50 weekly will pay the requisite contribution. They will continue to use public hospitals as at present for both medical and hospital treatment. The second point is that the proposed scheme, even if only a small number utilise it, involves the most complicated administrative procedures that could be worked out by any department, both for the registered organisations and the Department of Health. 
My final comment is to ask: If the Government is sincere in its desire to help low income families, could not the means test for Class A be set at $48.50 weekly and this proposal for Classes B and C abolished? This could provide a real benefit for families who must by our present day standards be regarded as 'the poor'. 
Our feeling towards these low income people is that we ought to help them. We believe that we ought to await the Minister's explanation. Having heard that, we will formulate our conclusions. At the moment we feel disposed to support the amendments proposed by  Senator McClelland. 
1 have listened to the Minister and 1 have discussed her proposal with my colleagues. We feel that the proposal which has been put forward in the letter which I read is obviously and very eminently the kind of proposal that should be put into effect. The Minister has said that she will report to the Minister in another place. I hope he will see for himself how our proposal will remove administrative costs and administrative difficulties. As this Bill will go lo another place and then come back here the Australian Democratic Labor Party proposes to vote for the Bill as it now stands, having heard the Minister's explanation. But if nothing is done about our proposal in the other place  -  I hope this will not upset her- 
If nothing is done in the other place we would favourably consider an amendment along the lines I have suggested when the Bill comes back here. 
I think that  Senator McClelland  deserves credit for the object which he had in view in moving this amendment. We have had a good look at it and we have discussed it with people who are in this particular field. They have assured us, and we think that there is reason for their assurances, that this would involve the very serious administrative difficulties to which the Minister has referred. We feel that it would be dangerous to embark on this when it could involve such serious difficulties. Whilst we are in sympathy with the principle of the amendment, for administrative reasons we feel that we are unable to support it. 
Question put: 
That the request  (Senator McCIelland's)  be agreed to. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party will not support the amendment. Members of my Party have a high opinion of the friendly society movement and the pharmacists who work in it. We are not prepared to support a measure which will deprive them of representation. 
Proposed new clauses negatived. 
Clauses 47 to 55 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Postponed clause 19. 
After section 29 of the Principal Act the following sections are inserted: - "29a. - (1.) There shall be, in respect of- 
each State; 
the Australian Capital Territory; and 
the Northern Territory, a Specialist Recognition Advisory Committee. " (4.) A member of a Committee holds office during the Minister's pleasure. "29b.- (1.) There shall be a Specialist Recognition Appeal Committee which shall consist of five medical practitioners appointed by the Minister in accordance with the next succeeding section. " (2.) The exercise or performance of the powers or functions of the Committee is not affected by reason only of there being a vacancy or vacancies in the membership of the Committee. " (3.) A member of the Committee holds office during the Minister's pleasure. "29d.- (1.) The Director-General may refer to a Specialist Recognition Advisory Committee the question whether a particular medical practititioner should, having regard to bis qualifications, experience and standing in the medical profession and the nature of his practice, be recognized for the purposes of this Act as a specialist, or as  a  consultant physician, in a particular specialty. " (2.) Before considering a question referred to it under the last preceding sub-section, a Committee may, with the Minister's approval, engage as a consultant a medical practitioner who has qualifications, experience and standing in the medical profession in the specialty to which the question before the Committee relates. " (3.) A Committee shall consider a question referred to it under sub-section (1.) of this section  and shall submit to the Director-General a recommendation agreed to by a majority of the members present at a meeting of the Committee. " (4.) On the receipt of a recommendation under the last preceding sub-section, the DirectorGeneral shall determine, for the purposes of this Act, that the medical practitioner concerned is to be recognized as a consultant physician or as a specialist, as the case may be, in the specialty concerned or that he is not to be so recognized. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry a question. In what losses has the Australian Wheat Board been involved as a result of mouse infested wheat? With particular reference to a statement that I made yesterday on the serious situation caused by the mice plague in northern Victoria, I ask: Is it now an achievement of the Government that Australian mice have the highest standard of living in the world? 
-I ask a question of the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Will thePostmaster-General make a statement on serious allegations that are being made regarding the issue of a Captain Cookbi-centenary sheet of stamps? It is alleged that special arrangements - and very profitable arrangements - were made with certain private stamp dealers and that these arrangements were not extended to other dealers. As these allegations are serious and reflect on the integrity of the Post Office, I ask whether the Postmaster-General will make a statement on the position and, before making such a statement, examine an article on the question which appeared in the June 1970 issue of 'Stamp News' which is an Australian publication circulating among persons interested in stamps. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that there will be intense disappointment in the potato industry at the determination of the Tariff Board which we received yesterday and which rejects tariff assistance for the industry? As the industry is now in a very serious situation, has the Government plans to assist it in any other way, particularly on the question of marketing which is one of its most serious problems? 
My remarks will be extremely brief.In the 1920s and 1930s Australia had quite a significant film industry, but because of pressures caused by the depression and then World War II the industry almost disappeared. We have been in the situation of recent years that except for a film industry directed largely to supplying the needs of television we have not had the kind of film industry that a country like ours should possess.It is not necessary, as some people have suggested, to be a big and powerful country to develop a fine film industry. Italy is an example of a country not needing to have powerful resources to occupy a prominent position in the film industry of the world. The situation in regard to our film industry caused members of the Senate serious concern and some years ago a committee of the Senate was formed to inquire into the film industry and related matters. The  Chairman  of that Committee deserves to be remembered. I refer to the late  Senator Seddon  Vincent. As  Chairman  of the Committee he did a tremendous job. He and his colleagues produced a report which is, I believe, everything that one could have expected from a committee inquiring into this important matter. 1 can only express my regret that so little has been done by the Government to implement the recommendations of that Committee for the work of which, as I have said,  Senator Vincent  will always be remembered. 
am very glad that the Government has at last taken action in the direction of once again encouraging an Australian film industry. As I have said before, we have a film industry in this country which has largely been directed to providing the needs of television. I think we should pay tribute to the pioneering work of such people as Hector Crawford who have done a particularly fine job and have achieved  a  remarkable result in that a programme produced in Australia has topped the charts of television popularity. 
 I think we all realise that  Senator McClelland  has taken a particularly strong interest in Australia's film industry and the development of entertainment of an Australian character.  Mr Crawford  has been prepared to be a pioneer in this industry and to take the risk of financial loss in order to develop it. I think wc have all to pay tribute to him for the fact that he has shown that it is possible for film development to take place successfully in Australia. I think it is most important to encourage our film industry, whether it is directed to general entertainment or to television. I do not think any honourable senator is unaware that the Australian television companies have in a sense been blackmailed by overseas interests in the last few years to force them to pay astronomical sums to be provided with films and television programmes made overseas. Those people have attempted to take advantage of the fact that there is only a very small film industry in this country. I therefore pay tribute once again to the pioneering work of people such as  Mr Crawford.  I am glad that our Government has at last taken action in a definite way for the encouragement of an Australian film industry. 
An amendment has been moved. The effect of the proposal, as I understand it, is to eliminate the provision made by the Government to the effect that persons on the board which will determine whether assistance should be given should have association with entrepreneurs or financial bodies interested in the industry. There may be good reasons for that. At the same time, however,I was a little disturbed least such a provision prevent the board concerned from having available to it the experience and knowledge that would be an advantage in these matters. However, a member of the Council which is administering these matters has interviewed me and has pointed out that the decisions of the Council will be made on the basis of an examination by assessors of proposals made to the Council for the purpose of obtaining assistance. 
I think it is the Council. I am referring to the body which will approve the availability of finance for objectives put before it. As I have been assured that the Council will have available to it expert opinion through assistants who will be appointed to examine these matters, I feel that in these circumstances the Council will be guided by expert knowledge. For that reason the DLP will not support the proposed amendment. 
A number of Australian television companies have established the practice of meeting the demands for an Australian content in programmes by filming certain sporting events. I think that is an excellent practice because Australians are interested in sport and this is a form of entertainment which appeals to a great number of people But I was interested in a question asked by  Senator Keeffe  about the filming of the rugby test match between England and Australia.  Senator Keeffe  took strong exception to the fact that it was not to be filmed. He said that the people concerned were to be condemned. It shows great political impartiality on the part of  Senator Keeffe  because the  chairman  of the rugby organisation responsible is a  Mr McAuliffe  who will be a Labor Senate candidate in the coming Senate election. It shows great political impartiality on the part of  Senator Keeffe  that he is prepared to raise this matter. I therefore strongly approve the action of  Senator Keeffe.  Even if it damages the chances of a Labor candidate he is prepared to put up a fight for ordinary individuals to see a film of the test match. 
I believe that this legislation is a good move to promote the Australian film industry. I hope it will be carried further. I congratulate  Senator McClelland  because over the years he has definitely put up a fight for the Australian industry. I commend him and I hope that his efforts will be successful. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Government aware that problems associated with the rural crisis have caused many country storekeepers to notify farmers that they can no longer extend them credit and that future transactions will have to be upon an entirely cash basis? In view of the fact that this will occasion considerable inconvenience to people in rural areas and, in addition, will reduce the volume of buying, which obviously must have a snowballing effect on business in the main centres and also create unemployment throughout the community, will the Government give consideration to making credit available to country firms in order to tide them over for the period when we hope the crisis will be past? 

I think a number of matters to which  Senator McClelland  referred are covered in the Bill just below the clause dealing with interpretation. Clause 4 (2.) states: 
In  forming an opinion whether a film has or will have a significant Australian content, the Corporation shall have regard to la) the subject-matter of the film: 
the place or places where the film was, or is to be, made; 
the places of residence of the persons taking part in the making of the film (including authors, musical composers, actors and technicians); 
the source which moneys to be used in the making of the film will be derived; 
the ownership of the shares or slock in the capital of any company concerned in the making of the film; (f)the ownership of the copyright of the film; and 
any other matters that it thinks relevant. 
It appears to me that the matters to which  Senator McClelland  referred would be largely covered by that sub-clause. It may be that the representatives of Australian film interests with whom he has been consulting feel that there should be something definite, rather than that they should merely take cognisance of these matters. However, on a matter affecting the arts I do not know that things can be laid down in black and white or that it is possible to be definite in excluding overseas participation by artists and others. For that reason it appears to me that by slating that the Corporation is called upon to have regard to the matters I. have quoted, the Bill adequately covers the situation. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 5 agreed to. 
Clause 6: 
(1.) The Corporation shall consist of a  Chairman  and four other members. (2.) The members shall be appointed by the Governor-General . (3.) A person shall not be appointed as a member if he has a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in a business of making, distributing or exhibiting films or ina corporation carrying on such a business. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party does not support the amendment. I was impressed, as  Senator McClelland  has been, with the need for expert opinion to be made available to the proposed Australian Film Development Corporation. Therefore, I was somewhat concerned about this clause. However, last week I had an opportunity to discuss this matter with a prominent member of the Australian Council for the Arts, who informed me that he understood that the procedure which the Corporation would follow would be to refer certain propositions to expert assessors in the industry for their advice. As a result, it appeared to me that it would not be as necessary as I had thought to have persons of expert knowledge of the industry on the Corporation. I should be very pleased if  Senator McClelland  would comment on this situation if 1 have been incorrectly informed. Having received such an assurance, I feel that the Corporation would be in a position to seek the expert advice of persons who could assess certain propositions. In the circumstances, I am of the opinion that it is perhaps desirable that the members of the Corporation should have no pecuniary interests. That is the way it has been put to me. I would be very pleased to hear  Senator McClelland's  comments. 
1 join with members of other parties in welcoming this Bill, although like them I wish that the baby could have been born at least 12 months earlier. I also join with them in what they have said about  Senator Laught.  He was a most conscientious  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on the Metric System of Weights and Measures. He was a lovable personality. We all have missed him since his death. We are sorry that he is not here today to see this legislation passed by the Senate. I also join in the tribute that has been paid to our expert adviser,  Mr Harper.  We found him most competent on all the occasions on which the Committee met and we found him most versatile on the social occasions between the deliberations of the Committee. 
I am pleased to see the way in which the community in general has accepted the conversion to the metric system. Because it involv.es a considerable degree of change which could be expensive in some cases, one might have thought that strong reservations in regard to it would have been expressed by sections of industry. One or two minor suggestions have been made by sections of industry. They have suggested that the problems are greater than they would have liked. But generally the reception of the change to the metric system as proposed has been most gratifying. The Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, which I suppose is the biggest organisation in Australia, was one which pressed for the change and which pointed out the serious loss that accrued every year that we delayed. 
I notice from the Press in Melbourne that the Chamber of Manufactures has set up a committee for the purpose of assisting the changeover to the metric system. 1 was interested to see that the Chamber, in giving its reasons for setting up the committee, said that it was satisfied that Australia's export trade would be seriously handicapped unless measures for the changeover were initiated at once. In some cases the period of the changeover will be short: in other cases the changeover may take 8 to 10 years. But it is something that had to come; it is something that industry realises is inevitable. As 1 said before, I am delighted thai the proposal for the change has been received so well. My Party strongly supports the Bil!. 
-- The Australian Democratic Labor Party has been very concerned over this matter. The Senate has made amendments to a number of such Bills in the last few days. A number of honourable senators have become disturbed about the implications of the Senate's action, particularly as it may become necessary to pass Acts of Parliament to alter salaries at all stages. It was said last night - I heard no disagreement - that this was a matter on which we would have to determine a procedure by the end of the year. I understand that the principle has been accepted here and in another place, lt seems to me we should not go any further in altering the provisions of existing legislation until the principle has been determined. If in our view something should be done and if we know that it is going to be done, why alter existing provisions which apparently have been in existence for years without any adverse comments or results? In my view we should go no further now but should await the determination of a procedure to cover all these cases. I have never been keen for Parliament to assume the position of a wage tribunal. 1 have come to the conclusion - I think other members of my Party agree - that no further alterations should be made, because this is now to be determined as a matter of procedure for the future. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports this measure. It is inevitable that funds be made available to assist efforts to export Australian dried fruits. I regret that the dried fruits industry is one more Australian industry which is in great difficulty during the present rural crisis, lt has been affected by drought and other seasonal conditions.  Senator Little  and I were told by a deputation of growers who met us that the industry has been plagued by considerable dissatisfaction among growers because of rising costs and unsatisfactory prices, which is almost a general disability experienced at present by our primary industries. The growers' representatives who interviewed  Senator Little  and myself put it to us very strongly that the Government should introduce a proper marketing organisation. They indicated that a strong move was being made for a referendum. I understand that a referendum was held and a majority of the growers supported the institution of a marketing plan. The Government insisted that the marketing plan should not be adopted unless a fixed percentage of the growers supported it. Therefore the proposal was declared defeated. 
asked a question in the Senate recently on this matter. I was informed that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  was having a further look at the question. I. hope that he will do that because, if I am to accept the opinion of representatives of the growers who saw us, the state of the dried fruits industry is by no means good. What happens in relation to marketing in a good year for us often depends on whether there has been a good year overseas. Efforts have been made over the years to reach some co-operation among the countries which produce dried fruits. I think  Mr Eugene  Gorman took a good deal of interest in those efforts. I have read that he was very successful in his efforts for a period but there seems to be a certain unwillingness in some countries to be bound all the time. As a result our dried fruits industry has had rather a chequered career, it is unfortunate because the growers have taken notice of the admonitions of the Government that they should be efficient. They have made great efforts to ensure the efficiency of the industry, lt must be very disheartening to them that they have difficulty in marketing their products at satisfactory rates when they have taken every effort to ensure the efficiency of the industry. 
I was interested in what  Senator Webster  said about seeking eastern markets. I was in Japan some time ago and I found that because of the increasing prosperity of that country it is importing and using foods nowadays which it was not using in former years. That has a remarkable effect. A tremendous move has been made to alter the desks in the schools. The imported foodstuffs which the Japanese people are eating have resulted in a considerable increase in their physique. The school desks which were suitable for their fathers, mothers, grandfathers and grandmothers are no longer big enough for the young Japanese children of today. I hope our Government will make efforts to export our dried fruits to Japan. We have to realise that strong competition takes place from other countries. We would have to meet this competition. When I was in Taiwan I suggested that they might be able to import Australian apples. I was told that they could not do that because they have a barter agreement with Japan. Japan takes their bananas and, in return, they take Japanese apples. One of the problems we might have to face in Japan is the existence of these agreements with other countries. 
Like every other honourable senator I wish the dried fruits industry well. I hope that it will get what it believes is essential; that is, a better or an adequate marketing system. I believe that what is happening in the case of the dried fruits industry is happening in other industries in the world. Fundamentally there is a breakdown in the system. Plenty of mouths in the world are open with hunger. They would like to have our dried fruits. The difficulty is the ability to pay for it. I hope our Government will try to assist the industry. What is needed is action on a world level to improve the system of distribution so that the have-nots will be able to purchase the fruit or other products which the haves are now able to produce so abundantly. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
1 desire to ask a question without notice of the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs. Has the Minister observed reports that North Vietnamese forces have now seized an area of the country of Laos and that these forces are establishing their bases to supply their troops in South Vietnam to replace the bases which were destroyed by the American and South Vietnamese campaign against the bases in Cambodia? Does this further instance of the cynical aggression of North Vietnamese troops against countries in their area prove once again that any complete withdrawal of allied forces from South East A si:, would not result in peace but would rather result in a further aggressive effort to dominate those countries in the interests of Communism? 
I am glad that the Minister took the opportunity to make a statement upon this matter because I was one of those who felt that a statement should be made and I thank her for having done so. I might point out that when we were considering the original Bill we all realised that the increased benefits which would be available to people represented a very considerable advance in the Bill. We therefore had to temper 2 things, firstly, the urgency of getting the Bill into operation and, secondly, the urgency also of trying to improve it. The position is that the House of Representatives has made certain decisions. It has approved about half of what was suggested by the Senate. The attitude of my Party could be summed up in the words: 'you cannot win them all'. We have to realise that there were 3 or 4 very important provisions which involved considerable expenditures of money. I have listened to some very eloquent statements in this House and 1 have read eloquent statements made in the other House to the effect that the Senate undoubtedly had the right to offer requests, but that, on a question affecting money where there was a difference between the two Houses, the will of the House of Representatives should prevail. I have heard that that is the fixed and determined attitude of the Australian Labor Party, possibly deriving from experiences in 1930 during the depression when  Sir Robert  Gibson and other people were able to exercise influences in regard to the Senate which defeated the will of the House of Representatives. 
lt could be that I am wrong in my understanding of what was said and it could be that what was said was presented in such a way that it was not clear to those who listened. The situation that we face in our Party is this: You cannot win them al). We all know the attitude that has been taken in regard to the rights of the House of Representatives finally to determine issues involving expenditure. 
We were particularly interested in the request involving the $2 payments and in the one involvng workmen's compensation, which is a very important one for the average unionist. The Government has gone a long way. But we were quite entitled to express our view that provision should be made with regard to spectacles. But we had sympathy with the attitude of the Government that in dealing with dentists and spectacles we were enter ng a new field. We felt that there is a good case to be made by the Government for going into the paramedical field on the basis of  a  general survey involving physiotherapists and other people, and going into the dental field on the basis of a general survey of the whole area. Therefore, we supported the request from this Senate to the .House of Representatives. The Government has conceded a good deal, but it is firm on this: If it :s to enter into dentistry and the paramedical field, it must be on the basis of a general survey. We are now prepared to accept that attitude. 
In regard to the ophthalmologists and the optometrists, there will no doubt be a feeling of disappointment among them, but i have read and I have had made available to me details of interviews that they had with government authorities in which they were promised that this matter would be surveyed at an early dale. So, in the circumstances, on the basis that you cannot win them all. we are prepared to compromise and accept the substantial aids the Government has given. Naturally,  Senator Cavanagh,  with that kindly attitude that he always assumes, has said that wc sold out. I can remember a similar occasion when the Labor Party made a firm stand on the Aged Persons Homes Bill. We supported the Labor Party and when the Government said it was unable to do anything about it and a deadlock existed, I was approached by members of the Australian 
Labor Party, who said: Look, in the interests of the aged people we shall have to give in on th s and we hope that you people will not rub it in and accuse us of having sold out.' What happened? When the Australian Labor Party said that in the interests of the aged people it would withdraw its opposition, as we are doing on this occasion, :t said: 'We hope you will not be so mean, miserable and contemptible as to accuse us of having sold out.' I got up in the Senate and said: 'Wc could easily have made political capital out of it by saying that the Australian Labor Parly had sold out, but we did not do so.' 
But I would not expect that magnanimous attitude from the Labor Party members, who now say that we have sold out. They have driven everybody mad year after year by statements that the policy of the Australian Labor Party, delivered by  Mr Calwell, Mr Whitlam  and  Senator Murphy,  is that where there is a question involving the expenditure of sums of money, the will of the House of Representatives should prevail. So I am pleased to see their attitude, which is one of complete opportunism, where they will soil out on a fundamental principle of policy because they believe in this case they will have a temporary advantage. 
The Labor Party says it is Socialist and then before every election promises that, if elected, it will not do anything socialistic. lt says: 'Our Federal policy is aid for schools- in South Australia we can promise aid for schools and in Victoria we can say to our executive "We will not have aid for schools" '. I am nol surprised at the Australian Labor Party adopting this attitude, because on every occasion it will alter its policy to suit the prevailing winds of circumstance. 
 I have already said them. 
I will not deal at any length with the issue involved in this question dealing with dental operations. As  Senator Murphy  said, it is still very much the same. 1 have already expressed our policy. Our attitude therefore depends upon the arguments which I put forward previously. I accept  Senator Murphy's  suggestion that we will probably all be batter off if we do not have a dog fight on this other issue. I have expressed my view, and he has expressed the view of his Party. All I can say is that I relied on statements by  Mr Calwell, Mr Crean  and  Mr Whitlam. Senator Murphy  tells me that they were not the policy of his Party. 
 Well, the situation is thatI relied upon those statements. If another occasion occursI shall be very pleased to put them forward, but I agree that we will probably be better off and get through things much more quickly if we leave that until another time. 
Question put: 
That requests Nos 2 and 3  (Senator McClelland's)  be not pressed. 
The Democratic Labor Parly, too, supports the Bill, and it is very pleased indeed that the Commonwealth has decided to direct its attention and resources lo assisting to solve the very serious problem of providing an adequate supply of teachers. This problem is becoming more difficult every day as the number of schools, particularly secondary schools, increases. There is a continual drain on the existing forces available for the teaching profession, first of all because private industry and private schools are frequently able to offer more attractive opportunities to teachers in the State system and also because there is a considerable drain on our teaching forces from countries such as Canada which appear able to offer more attractive conditions. 
We have ail read in the Press of the grave difficulties associated with the attempt now to provide an adequate supply to teachers for our schools. In my State of Victoria daily one reads letters of protest to the Press from parents who say that their particular school is inadequately staffed. The situation is that the Government is adopting desperate expediencies, some of which include the sending to schools of teachers who are not properly trained or whose training is not properly accepted by the staffs of the schools, in the State of Victoria we have had more than one strike where teachers have refused to accept and to work with persons who have been sent to the school by the State department, not because the State department wants to send them there, but because it is desperate and it sends along whatever materia! is available, sometimes without having a great deal of regard lo the suitability of the person sent. Therefore, it all boils down to ihe fact that there is a very serious shortage of teachers, and the only way to get leachers is to build more leachers' colleges and lo make the terms and conditions of employment more attractive. 
I would say, as one who was a teacher and who went through the depression years, that the conditions of teachers generally in this country are infinitely superior  10  what they were when I began to teach and for the greater part of my teaching career. Teachers continually are claiming that in comparison with other professional people - and teachers insist on being regarded as professional people - they are entitled to better standards of remuneration and so on. However, be that as it may, the main point we are considering is the provision of adequate teachers' colleges to train teachers in the future.  Senator Wheeldon  raised the question of the reservation of 10% of ihe places in teachers' colleges for intending students from private schools. This mailer was given a good deal of consideration a couple of years ago. and I understand that the organisations, religious or otherwise, which provide a considerable number of leachers for private schools, were consulted upon this matter. Some of them, as in New South Wales, said that they would be satisfied with a provision of a percentage of the places in State teachers' colleges. Others, as in Victoria, said that hey preferred to erect their own colleges. 

 Senator Wheeldon made a point which interested me. He referred to the question of bonding students, that is, giving them, as it were, a training scholarship on the condition that for a period of years they serve with the State teaching service. I remember that this issue was raised probably for the first time in Victoria by the union of which I was a member, that is, the Affiliated Teachers' Union which, more than  15  or  16  years ago, took strong exception to this practice on the grounds that because of their bonding, students frequently were directed to take a course which they did not wish to take. They wished to take the course for which they themselves felt equipped and in the direction of which their own interests lay. I think that there was something to be said for that. But some very good brains in the community, with a particular bent in a certain direction , were, because of the bonding, informed that they would have to go in another direction because there was a shortage of teachers in that direction. 
I know that is a possible situation, but the fact remains that one should consider not only the requirements of the service but also the individual and his outlook. I think that at times the interests of the individual were overridden, more than they should have been, by the demands of those who said that the interests of the department required something else. At any rate, most of the teacher organisations have followed the example which was set by my trade union. They now oppose bonding. But I suppose one must weigh against that the fact that those who are prepared to be bonded get considerable advantages. It must be admitted that even in these days some students would not be able to complete courses, because of lack of funds, unless facilities were made available to them by the departments. 

 Senator Wheeldon raised the question of a place being reserved for a private student in a State teachers' college. He said that that student would receive an advantage over a student who was there as a State student, because the private student would be in a position practically to chose his own course. 
No. J am not suggesting that  Senator Wheeldon  was being unfair. He appeared to me to raise the question as a matter of interest and discussion. But I point out that there are also considerable advantages which a State student receives but which a private student does not receive. If the two of them go to the same State teachers' college - one as a State student who is bonded and the other as a private student - the State student receives a very considerable maitnenance allowance which the private student does not receive. I should think, myself, that this is a matter which ought to be considered by the Government. Where there are  2  students who are both training in the teaching service, whether they teach in a government school or an independent school they are teachers making a contribution to the educational services of the country. One is paid during the period of his training and the other is not paid. I happen to know that this is a very sore point with the authorities concerned. I point out that these authorities largely build independent schools with their own money, they largely provide for them with their own money, but then when they have to train young people as teachers they find that a maintenance allowance is not paid to the student who proposes to teach in a private school. 
I should like the Government to inquire into whether this position should not bc altered. I suggest that when people are training to become teachers so that they will make a contribution to the educational service, they should be put on the same basis and each of them should receive an allowance which is necessary for his maintenance. However, this Bill is a step in the right direction and I support it. 
I wish to detain the Senate for only a few minutes in order to read to the Senate from Hansard what actually was decided upon last week.  Senator Murphy  said: 
I could move my motion, because we  are dealing  with General Business, then the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  might move his motion, and at the same time we might consider  the report of  the  Standing Orders Committee. At the end of the discussion the motions could be put one by one. 

 Senator Byrne said: 
We will discuss them together? 

 Senator Murphy said: 
We will discuss them together . . . 
A  little later  he  said: 
We would discuss them as cognate matters, if that is the appropriate term, deal with them together, and at the end of the discussion put them to a vote in some way which will determine  appropriately  the view of the Senate. 
I do not know what  Senator Murphy  had in mind, but I had in mind exactly what it is now proposed to do, namely, to put each motion to the Senate. If there was any other intention it should have been made clear. If there was, I was deceived. I can only say that I will regard myself as having been deceived in this matter if we are not permitted to take a vote on the motion put forward by the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
The Australian Labor Party's argument is that we should not vote on the Democratic Labor Party motion because we have already voted on something else. 
In that case, I am wondering what all the talk is about and why we did not have a vote a long time ago. 
Has the Leader of the Government noted the outburst of  Sir Henry  Bolte calling for the abolition of the Senate? As this is Australian Labor Party policy and not Liberal Party policy, does this herald one more of the strange and unpredictable alliances which have been a feature of Victorian politics? Has the Government any intention of joining with the Australian Labor Party to carry out  Sir Henry's  suggestion? 
I shall set honourable senators an example by being very brief in my remarks. I first entered the Senate in 1956. At the end of the first session there was a debate of exactly the same character as this one. The same situation has been occurring for something like 14 years, but it should not be permitted. It should be possible for reasonably practical representatives of the Government and the Opposition to get together during a session and make arrangements which will ensure that Bills will be dealt with in a sensible way without unnecessary delay. I believe that if the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair)  got together at regular intervals they could make arrangements to streamline the operations of this chamber. 
The Leader of the Government, in loyalty to his own people, said that it was laughable to suggest that some Ministers like to pour Bills into the Senate at the last minute to discourage too much discussion and trouble. Nobody will ever convince me that there are not Ministers who do that as a regular thing. Nobody will ever convince me that we do not have shoals of legislation pushed on us at the last minute in the belief that it will be passed without much discussion. If the Democratic Labor Party thinks that any piece of legislation which is considered next week should be amended, my colleagues and I will certainly provide our votes to support such an amendment. 
This Bill is a regrettable necessity. That was the view expressed to me by representatives of the dairying industry from all States who took the opportunity to present to me, as representing the Australian Democratic Labor Party, their view of the present situation in the industry and of what should be done in future. They assured me that there was no alternative to this legislation if the dairying industry was to be rehabilitated. For that reason, my Party proposes to support the Bill. The object of the Bill is to phase out - those 2 words phase out' seem to be very familiar these days - of the dairying industry what are called marginal farms. Marginal farms are farms which are not big enough or which do not produce enough to make them a satisfactory economic unit. For the purposes of this scheme a marginal dairy farm is defined as a rural property running more than 20 lactating cows and with not less than half the gross income derived from the production of milk or cream valued at the manufactured price, but being one that has an overall production insufficient to provide a reasonable level of income. 
The principle of the legislation is that a marginal dairy farmer wishing to leave the industry would offer his land to an authority in his State and, if the offer were approved, would receive compensation in full as soon as the transaction was completed. The authority would make the land available in whole or in part to another farmer together with the improvements that that farmer indicated would be useful. The land and the useful improvements would be sold to him at a price based on current market values in relation to the proposed use of the land. Before making the land available the authority would ensure that after amalgamation the built-up property would be an economic unit. We know hat many dairy farmers have mixed feelings about this scheme, but its voluntary nature should ensure that only those who want to get out of the industry, or who have to get out of it, will get out of it. How many will get out of it will, I think, depend on their view of the compensation that they will receive. 
I think we should emphasise that. I. think that is an extremely important feature of the legislation. 
 I agree with  Senator Webster  that there is a good deal of misunderstanding and misconception about what the Bill involves. This measure has been approved by leaders of the dairying industry, including the Australian Dairy Industry Council, the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation and the Federal Dairy Committee. They placed before the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  proposals which they thought should be undertaken in order to tide the industry over its present difficult situation. These proposals embrace immediate action to secure the support of dairy factories and farmers in Victoria and Tasmania for a plan to limit production of milk during 1970 and 1971 with the objective of containing the total Australian production to 220,000 tons of butter and 70,000 tons of cheese. They had in mind that surveys indicated that unless some action were taken to limit the production there would be a considerably increased amount of butter produced and a good deal of this butter could only be made available for sale overseas at unprofitable prices. Members of the Council believe that they have to do this if they arc to save the present underwriting level in the industry. They believe that it is vital to the industry thai the Government should continue to underwrite returns to the producers at 34c lb in 1970 and 1971. 
The underwriting is the assistance which the Government gives to the industry. Among measures which the Council placed before the Minister were, firstly, a measure for the early passage of the legislation to implement the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme and to buttress the present voluntary equalisation scheme. The second measure was an immediate stop to the development by Slate governments of new farms for dairy production. That was a proposal for definite action to stop the provision of new farms or their development. The third measure was the immediate licensing of all existing dairy farmers, with a provision that no new licences be issued except by agreement of the Australian Agricultural Council. I emphasise that these are measures which the Australian Dairy Industry Council is seeking to have taken but which are not necessarily contained in the Bill. 
The fourth measure was the prohibition of the importation of cheese while controls on the production of Australian dairy products were required. The fifth was the introduction by all State governments of legislation to control the production and sale of cooking margarine and imitation milk. The next was a continuation of bounty on exported processed milk products and an extension of the bounty to cover all full cream processed milk products. The last was the provision of devaluation compensation on all dairy products other than butter and cheese. That is a pretty formidable list of proposed measures of assistance for the industry. It Indicates that the Council feels that the industry is in a position in which it needs considerable assistance. 
Why is this action being taken? As other senators have pointed out, it is due to the serious position of overproduction not only in Australia but also in other parts of the world. Recently I read an article that referred to a statement by Colin Clark, the well known economist, to the effect that, although Germany had undertaken with considerable success measures for a free economy after the Second World War. measures for a free economy had not been developed in the field of primary production in that country; instead there was a system of subsidies for primary production. He said that, when he asked a leading member of the German Government why these measures for a free economy had been applied to everything except farming, the answer was that there were too many votes involved in the agricultural areas. 
The position is that this system of handouts not only in Germany but also in other parts of the European Economic Community has resulted in a mountain of butter; so much so that 12 months ago a German scientist set to work to examine whether it would be possible to turn some of the butter into stock feed and to feed it back to the cows. That scientific experiment proved a failure, but it indicates the desperation that people abroad feel in the present situation. Most people would say that in such a situation we should look for fresh markets, particularly in areas such as Asia. But it appears that for some reason - hereditary or otherwise - the Asian people are not particularly receptive to proposals to increase their consumption of milk products. They appear to have been used to other kinds of food. As I said before, the prospects for large increased markets in those areas are not good. 
In Australia we also have an extremely serious situation. As I have said, we have had proposals for measures to be taken for the purpose of cutting our production. We have had farmers marches composed, to a large extent, of people who are engaged in the dairy industry and who insist that rising costs and reducing prices are placing them in a more serious position every day. As I said on another occasion, I have received deputations of dairy farmers who insist that unless something is done to help them out of their present situation they may lose their farms. I have heard already of a number who have lost their farms. They include at least 2 who were in such a desperate situation a year or two ago that they borrowed money at the rate of 14%. Some people will say that they were very foolish. But how can we blame a drowning man for clutching at a straw? 
The situation is that the dairy industry in this country has determined to accept this legislation and has agreed to take measures lo restrict production this year and to put a slop to further expansion of dairy farms, lt even proposes that measures be taken for the licensing of farms. Everybody realises that these are measures which would not be undertaken willingly. They are measures which must occasion a great deal of concern among many people engaged in the industry. 1 suppose that their concern is reflected in the difficulty the Commonwealth has experienced in getting the States to take action in accordance wilh these proposals. It appears [hat the areas that will be affected most will be parts of Queensland, northern New South Wales, parts of Western Australia and parts of South Australia. The greatest doubts about the measures appear to have been expressed in Victoria and Tasmania, lt appears to be quite certain that in Victoria doubts have teen expressed about the measures, particularly in regard to the administration and the possible cost. 
However, representatives of the industry no! only in the States that would be affected most btw also in the 2 Slates in which I suggested there were doubts - Victoria and Tasmania - have come to the conclusion that the legislation is a regrettable necessity and that therefore it will have to be passed. The object of the legislation is to ensure the best use of the land by making sure that the units are economic; that is, units that Will provide a reasonable standard of living to those who are operating them. Many people had reservations and doubts about the proposals in the beginning because they feared that they might result in removing many small farmers from the land. 1 was interested to read an article that reported a statement by  Mr J.  S. Adams, who was described as the  Chairman  of the Federal Dairying Committee. He said that suggestions were being made that one-third of the dairy farmers would have to go. He took up this question and said that, if anybody had to go, in his view it ought to be the 'big boys'. He made some scathing remarks about the 'big boys' who had come into the industry. For example, he referred to them in these words: 
Also coming in in increasing numbers is the city tax dodger - the doctor, lawyer, etc. who buys land, usually large grazing properties, builds 2 or 3 dairies on  them  with 150 to 200 cows on each. 
He is not concerned wilh the prices his production is knocking down. He gets his reward in lower taxation rating, and to hell wilh the family dairy farmer who is being forced from his chosen way of life. 
The average family unit dairy farmer, unless  he  very soon lakes steps to protect his slums in the industry, is doomed to disappear.  His  farm is usually nol large enough to allow the  increase in production necessary lo meet  the  increase of larger farms. 
He went on to say: 
One third must go,' they say. Why one third? Because it will take one third if they are  pickedon  one-man-family units lo make  a  big enough dent in our national production lo leave a nice compact cosy industry for the big ones, and the high finance boys. 
He said further: 
Why not peel a bil ofl'  the  lop few  10  secure  the  industry for the  dinkum dairy  farmer*.' 
Even  at today's depressed return I think  that  properly apportioned, there is enough lor all real  farmers 
In any case, belter one 200-cow tax dodger kept out than four 50-cow  family  units forced out. 
He advocated quotas. He said: 
Quotas can save  the  family unit because they can be allotted on any basis decided on by the industry. 
That: is the opinion of a man who would have a knowledge of the industry, and 1 agree with him. 1 think that one thing that has affected many of us in examining this legislation is the uneasy feeling that this may be one of the first measures towards the elimination of the family farm. I am one who believes that the family farm must be maintained, despite the agricultural experts who say that the key to the future lies in huge collectives such as we see in authoritarian countries. 1 have believed always that the family farm is a way of life. Ii should be maintained even if some sacrifice has to be made in order to do so. If, as he says, quotas are one of the remedies, why not proceed upon the path that has been travelled by the sugar industry and other industries in recent years? This is the path which, unfortunately in some respects, the wheat industry has been compelled to go along in recent years. 
Finally, may I say this: Nobody would suggest that this legislation is the be all and end all of the rehabilitation of the industry. This is not going to be much good to the man who has a farm, who is up against it at the moment but who believes, and has some reason lo believe, that he can make it with a little bit of assistance. I therefore look forward to other measures by the 
Government to help the industry. I mention, for example, the provision of long term loans at low interest rates and the establishment, in some States, of organisations of the farmers' debt adjustment board type for the purpose of assisting the man who is up against it, who is rinding that he cannot get credit, but who would like the opportunity to put his position before such a board and to submit to it that, if he could get reasonable assistance, he could still make a go of his farm. I think that a considerable number of dairy farmers in the community are in that position. They are looking for somewhere to go to get money at reasonable interest rates. They believe that, if they can get that money, they still can make good. It seems to me that this is a problem that the Government has not properly or effectively considered. I believe that it is one of the urgent problems which the Government must undertake. 
As I said before, I regard this legislation as a regrettable necessity. 1 know that it has caused much thought to people engaged in the industry. I know that to many a small farmer it has been provocative of great anxiety and doubt. This is inevitable. But I believe that we can do a number of other things to help the industry. Foremost among them must come those things that are necessary to maintain the family farmer in the industry. 
I ask of the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question which refers to a report in the Press today that  Mr Whitlam  is at present in Moscow as the guest of the Soviet Parliament. As  Mr Whitlands  tour is officially sponsored in his capacity as Leader of the Australian Opposition can 1 be advised whether his itinerary includes discussions with the Leader of the Opposition in the Soviet Parliament? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs noted today's report that 75 South Vietnamese villagers have been massacred by a force of the Vietcong because, in defiance of instructions from the Vietcong, they had co-operated with the South Vietnamese Government? Will the Minister obtain information on this massacre and also on the massacre last week of more than 100 South Vietnamese villagers by the Vietcong, again because they had refused to obey orders noi to co-operate with the Government? Do these massacres indicate an intensification of the Vietcong's campaign over a number of years to make effective government of South Vietnam impossible and to convince the people that they will be given an opportunity of peaceful and effective government only under a Communist regime? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI have seen only a brief report of the matter to which the honourable senator referred. 1 will seek further information and make it available to the honourable senator. There is a suggestion of an intensification in the tactics being employed by the Vietcong. The tactics are consistent with tactics which have been employed, to our knowledge, by the North Vietnamese for many years. We are all aware of the tactic of moving into villages and destroying people who are responsible for making the village viable, thus taking away from the community the capacity to manage its affairs, f agree with the honourable senator that this suggests an intensification of those terrible and shameful tactics which have been employed in the past. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether he will take note of the remarks of  Dr Strong,  the Anglican Primate of Australia and Archbishop of Brisbane, on a number of public questions but in particular his remarks expressing disapproval of the campaign for much increased facilities for abortion. T ask the question because a large number of Australian newspapers and other media which regularly give publicity to the campaign for greater abortion facilities eliminated from their reports of the Archbishop's remarks what he had to say on the question of abortion. 
 I desire to join in the expressions of regret at the passing of  Senator Donald  Grant. He was a member of this chamber when I first entered it. He was an interesting figure because of his very colourful career. He was imprisoned for doing the kind of thing which nowadays earns a man the reputation of a hero and numerous appearances on television and radio. He was a very forceful character. He never pulled any punches in what he had to say. 1 can remember his forceful remarks lo me when he described the circumstances in which he lost his selection. However, this is not the place to deal with those circumstances other than to say that he was one of the old timers that the Labor Party produced. We will not look upon their like again because circumstances have changed, but he was undoubtedly a great fighter for what he believed in, and I regret his passing. 
Very briefly, the Australian Democratic Labor Party supports all these measures because they are necessary for the welfare of the dairying industry. Further, I was delighted to hear the assurance from the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  a few minutes ago, that the Government is concerned to retain a family farm interest in the dairying industry. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a second time together, and passed through their remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
The Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. Wc believe that no doubt there are very good reasons for it. However, while this Bill deals with only a small matter in regard to allowances my Party is very concerned about the whole question of salaries and allowances which at the present time are paid to members of our armed forces. This is not the time to go into a discussion which would be of such a wide character as that, but in a few words I want to say that we are gravely concerned at the discontent in the armed forces with salaries and conditions. Improvements commensurate with the improvements in salaries and conditions of other members of the community have not been made in the salaries and conditions of members of the armed forces. 
We are suffering serious losses of some of our best trained officers and noncommissioned officers. 1 heard the other day of 3 warrant officers, indispensible men to our Army, who are resigning to become members of a security service because the inducements which that security service offers them are far greater than the inducements to remain in our armed forces. The difficulty which the men feel they face is that any Army regulations they are prohibited from putting their case with the strength and the publicity that they would like. I know that there are long standing regulations regarding discipline which state that members of the armed forces shall not take certain steps by way of publicity and approaching members of Parliament. I think that in the new Army of today a lot of those regulations are out of date and should be replaced by provisions which will enable men to make representations in a proper way to a tribunal which can examine their claims, report upon them and make decisions on them. 
As I said before, this walling ofl" of the armed forces from the rest of the community in regard to the right to make adequate representations on wages and conditions is a relic of a past age. 1 do not want to labour the question, but I believe that the future successful organisation and development of our armed forces depend to a considerable extent upon the retention of trained officers and non-commissioned officers and upon a feeling of satisfaction amongst the other ranks. Unless and until the Parliament does something to ensure that they get adequate wages and conditions so that they will regard a position in our armed forces as a career, the shortage of adequately trained officers and noncommissioned officers will continue; men will not re-enlist at the end of their term of enlistment, and 1 do not believe it will be possible to develop our armed forces effectively so as to face the serious problems of the future. I support the Bill, but I wish that it had been a Bill to give a similar improvement in conditions to the general body of the forces. 
The Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. I think we are indebted to  Senator Devitt  for the very interesting survey that ho gave of the present situation, the indication which he gave of the feelings of members of the armed Services and the proposal which he put for a form of inquiry into what should be a proper defence forces retirement benefits measure. Nobody could possibly consider that the present system is satisfactory. The amount of dissatisfaction that exists in the armed forces and the number of resignations and retirements which occur - following which those concerned, who have perhaps been muzzled while they were members of the armed forces, give expression to their belief that the present system does not give justice- 
At the moment I do not want to discuss why they retire or whether they retire because of some provision or other. I think that quite a number are resigning because they are dissatisfied with the arrangements. 
They are entirely dissatisfied with the present situation of remuneration and with the defence forces retirement benefits that are available to those in the Services. It is essential that people employed in the armed forces have satisfactory remuneration and satisfactory retirement benefits, if the Government hopes to recruit people to the Services, because it will not be an inducement to the type of person whom the Government wants in the armed forces if intending recruits are told by those who have been through the mill that they are entering a form of service in which they will be inadequately remunerated and that they will not get satisfactory retiring benefits when they leave that service. While the present situation exists there is a barrier to the recruitment of capable people in sufficient numbers to take their places in our armed forces. We want people to serve in the armed forces and to be satisfied that they are not at a disadvantage compared with people who serve the community in other avenues. 
I was interviewed by a couple of members of the armed forces only last weekend. There is abundant evidence that members of the armed forces are entirely dissatisfied with their positions as against comparable positions in outside employment or in the Public Service. How, in those circumstances, does the Government intend to recruit people to the armed Services? How does it intend to retain them? How does it intend to induce them to make a career of the armed forces when this situation exists?  Senator Devitt  put an impressive argument about the high cost of their contributions and the entirely inadequate benefits that they receive. Within the last couple of weeks 
I have seen some Press statements by people who have been in the armed forces and who have pointed out what they paid in and what they goi back. Some of the statements were almost unbelievable. I just could not believe that the receipts of people who served for years in the armed forces could be so contemptible and so miserable. Yet when I put the facts before the people from the armed Service who saw me at the weekend, they said: 'No. That is true'. 
In those circumstances 1 think we have no alternative but to support a form of inquiry into the whole situation. 1 do not know that I am terribly keen on the inquiry being conducted by members of Parliament because I do not think that many of us would be qualified to make a determination on a matter such as this. I would think it would be more a matter for experts. I do not suggest that they should come from inside the Public Service. In order to ensure a feeling of complete impartiality I would prefer the inquiry to be conducted by an expert, as  chairman,  from outside government employment, who would be assisted by other members. I am not particularly wedded to one way or another, but I would prefer the inquiry to be conducted in the manner in which I suggest. However, if the only way in which we can get speedy action is for the suggestion put by  Senator Devitt  to be implemented I would be inclined to support it. 1 propose to wait and hear what the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  has to say. If the Government has a satisfactory proposition prepared I may be impressed by that. But if the Minister says that he likes the idea put by  Senator Devitt  but that he has no definite proposition to put as to how it should be implemented, my feeling would be to support  Senator Devitt's  amendment. It would not delay the Bill. It is an expression of opinion and it could be interpreted by the Government as an expression of opinion that an inquiry should be held. 1 would still be open to persuasion on the form of the inquiry. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs. Has the Minister noted the statement by the Ambassador for Peru expressing gratitude for the gifts of money, the gifts of goods and the promises of goods to assist the victims of the earthquake in Peru? Has the Minister further noted that there has been considerable difficulty in transporting these goods to Peru? The Ambassador stated that if they could be transported quickly lives would be saved. As airways have offered some space for the transport of these goods - but obviously their space is limited - will the Government consider making available either a naval transport vessel or a vessel of the Australian National Line so that these goods may be transported to Peru and assist in saving the lives of earthquake victims? 
I appreciate the points made by the honourable senator. At another level I have been informed that a ship is due to leave for Peru towards the end of this month. I understand that some time between now and 25th June a ship will be leaving and that certain organisations have been making efforts to send goods in that ship. However, I will need to make further inquiries about that. The whole burden of  Senator McManus's  question needs immediate investigation, and I will undertake to carry that out. 
This Bill comes before us at a time when arbitration is at the crossroads. I for one am very pessimistic about the future of the arbitration system. That is not because I am opposed to arbitration. I believe that the system has been good for Australia and has conferred many benefits upon the trade unions. An examination of the situation shows that the arbitration system has been a big factor in encouraging membership of trade unions to such a degree that membership of trade unions in Australia as averaged against the population was the highest in the world. The arbitration system has conferred a benefit also in that it has protected the small unions, which, in a system of collective bargaining, will always lack industrial power and are therefore at a serious disadvantage. All those factors made the Australian trade unions strongly in favour of the arbitration system. When in 1929 the Bruce-Page Government determined that it would do away wilh the system the Government at the time was very soundly defeated and the Australian Labor Party, which campaigned on the basis thai it would preserve the arbitration system, was returned to power. 
Then in the 1930s we saw the rise in the trade union movement for the first lime of the power of the Australian Communist Party. That was associated with an attack on the arbitration system and a demand by those who were associated with the Communist drive for arbitration to be replaced by a system of collective bargaining. In some countries they have collective bargaining - in Great Britain to a degree and in the United States. All I wish to say about collective bargaining is that it might work well if there are men of good will on both sides, but in a system where we cannot be assured of men ot good will on both sides collective bargaining could provide a system under which we would have a continual situation of industrial disorder. Although the people who were associated with the Communist Party in the 1930s and 1940s strongly attacked the arbitration system at Australian Council of Trade Unions congresses, a number of which I attended, any motions that they moved with the endeavour of severing the Australian Council of Trade Unions from the arbitration system were always soundly defeated. Therefore adherence to arbitration is still the policy of the Australian trade union movement. However, I repeat what I said al the beginning of my speech. I am most pessimistic as to the future of the arbitration system. 
In conversations over the weekend with 2 men who have had a lifetime of experience in the trade union movement and who have been associated with the arbitration system, both of them assured me that they shared my pessimism. A number of objections have been made to the arbitration system. There have been objections to its delays, there have been objections lo ils legalisms, objections to its cost and objections to the manner in which it has been manipulated at times by the employers. In recent years we have seen a steady drift in the direction of direct action and a steady drift away from that old loyalty to the arbitration system which was a characteristic of Australian trade unions. The attitude of the employers has been unusual. We have been in a period of full employment and of considerable prosperity. The attitude of some employers has been that they are prepared to give in on occasions when they have been faced with demands for better conditions and better wages, but the altitude of other employers has been that they are not prepared to give in and thai they propose to fight. 
In recent years that has resulted, in the case of the employers, in a very unwise use of certain provisions of the arbitration system which, when they were originally put in, were not meant to be used in the way in which the employers have been using them. I made reference to thai in a speech in early 1969 when I recited in the Senate complaints which had been made to me by men in the trade union movement who were by no means Communists, who by no means could be described as extremists' and who could be described, I suppose, as 'moderates', if I may use that term. They said that they took strong exception to the manner in which the employers were using the penalty provisions of the system. In my speech on that occasion I said that because of the manner in which the employers were resorting to certain sections of the Arbitration Act and using them in a way in which they were not intended to be used, in my view there was an urgent need for a reform of the arbitration system in those respects. I said straight out that I did not believe in the abolition of the penal clauses because I think that if we are going to have arbitration there have to be some penal clauses. But I did say that unless action were taken very rapidly to deal with those particular clauses which were being misused by the employers, the future of the arbitration system was going to be very difficult indeed. 
I referred particularly to complaints against section 109 and I referred also to complaints about section 111. I pointed out that there was a tendency by employers to rush to use these sections without making any attempt towards conciliation. I mentioned the serious anomaly in regard to the question of costs and day to day penalties that were being inflicted on unions. I mentioned also a number of other sections of the Arbitration Act which in my opinion were being misused. Obviously, since then, there have been discussions - apparently long drawn out discussions - between the trade unions and the national body of the employers organisation. One sees from an examination of this Bill that there appear to have been some efforts by the Government to deal with some of the objections that were made. It has been suggested that the proposals in the Bill do not meet the wishes of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I have the feeling that the provisions might have met the wishes of the Australian Council of Trade Unions a couple of years ago. 
I do not think so either. I have spoken to representatives of unions affiliated with the Australian Council of Trade Unions who have said that the provisions do not meet the wishes of that organisation. However, 1 feel that the organisation might have been a bit more amenable to the provisions a couple of years ago before the control of the ACTU was changed. The present circumstances are such that the ACTU has asked the Australian Labor Party to vote against the provisions. That is correct, is it not? 
There is considerable reservation in the minds of employers as to these proposals. I think the Government made a very serious mistake after the O'Shea case. At that time it was obvious that there was very strong objection among the ranks of trade unionists to the misuse of certain sections of the Arbitration Act. The Government made a very serious mistake when it took so long to get along the road towards reforming the Act. I did not believe in an abolition of penal clauses, but 1 did believe and I still believe that they should be reformed. When the Government realised from what happened on that occasion that this was a serious matter, in my view it should have got to work and acted more quickly. But instead there has been delay and further delay. 
I think they could. As I said before, I am very pessimistic as to the whole future of the arbitration system, but J do think that reform could be undertaken even at this stage with a view to saving this system which does offer a method of maintaining law and order in a field of industrial relations which is very important. At any rate, the Government took a long time before doing anything. I do not think anyone is under any illusions in believing that one of the reasons for the presentation of this Bill now is that the employers have indicated that if the Government does not propose to do anything then they intend to resort to the penal clauses of the Arbitration Act once again. Honourable senators will be aware that the use of the penal provisions has been practically frozen since the O'Shea case. I think we have this Bill before us because the employers said that if the Government did not propose to do anything about reforming the Act they would resort once more to  a  use of the old provisions. Therefore 1 blame the Government for taking so long to deal with this question. 
Because of the Government's delay we have got into a situation in which I am very doubtful as to the future of the arbitration system in this country. 1 am supported in this view by people who are friends of mine and who are authorities in the trade union movement and the arbitration system. I am glad to be able to say that the Government has brought representatives of both sides together for consultations. There have been long discussions between the national employers committee and the Australian Council of Trade Unions at which they worked out suggestions which, I emphasise, neither side endorsed but which they were prepared to submit to their own bodies. These suggestions have been embodied in 16 principles regarding the future of industrial relations. I believe that this is all to the good because too little has been done in recent years to examine our arbitration system, to examine ways in which it might be improved and to look at new ideas which could be brought into it. They have not been so slow in New Zealand. I have been very interested, for example, in a new idea which has been adopted in respect of New Zealand unions. Instead of having, as we have, a minimum wage which really is not the wage in most industries because many industries pay more than the minimum wage, they are now adopting a system under which they examine what in their view is the actual wage being paid rather than the minimum wage. Then they are incorporating the actual wage - the real level of wage rather than the one that is set down as a minimum - in the award, and both sides agree to maintain that actual wage over a certain period. This is the sort of thing we should be looking at - improvements and new ideas in the arbitration system. 
To a degree we have been inclined to sit back and let the system run along and not undertake the necessary reforms and improvements. That is why we are in our present situation. I was interested in a Press statement in the last fortnight which set out a whole series of proposals for a reorganisation of the arbitration system along the New Zealand lines. This has been put forward by an employer organisation. It appeared to me to contain many ideas well worthy of consideration. As I said before, I regret that we have been so conservative about our arbitration system and that we have not said to ourselves: 'This is a system which should be improved and which could be improved. Let us get to work and improve it in the interests of both sides'. 
Not all the faults have been on the side of the employers. I believe that the main faults have been on their side through the misuse of the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. There are serious faults on the part of trade unions in respect of the number of cases where industrial disputes occur on demarcation issues. Let us be quite frank; there are considerable numbers of disputes on demarcation issues. The trade union movement has an obligation to look at that particular field to see what it can do to clear up the situation where there are strikes and industrial disputes of long duration which cause a considerable amount of loss. Fundamentally the fault lies with a number of trade unions which, on demarcation issues, seem to be unable to get together. My Party does not regard this Bill as perfect by any means. We regard it as an attempt to do something a little bit better. 
I think that costs have been one of the most serious causes of complaint. Even a union like the Federated Ironworkers Association of Australia, which could not be regarded as an extremist union, has been one of those that has suffered as much as any other from costs. 
It has not been fair. Something has been done about it in this Bill but I should like to see a lot more done. 
Yes. In my view some of the delays have been completely inexcusable. The Association of Professional Engineers, Australia, is an organisation which pledges its loyalty to the arbitration system, but after almost 2 years of negotiation it has got what could only be described as a run around. The association was referred to different tribunals. Before some result could be obtained, somebody died and it had to go through the whole expensive process again, lt cost hundreds of thousands of dollars. 
Yes. We should be quire honest about this. If they had done what the pilots did they would have got their increased salaries and better conditions by now. Will anybody on this side deny that? The present system, with its delays, is a straight out inducement to trade unions not to go to arbitration but to resort to direct action. I am pessimistic about the future of the arbitration system because I believe that trade unions are being led to believe that if they resort to direct action people will try to appease them but that if they go to arbitration their claims will be delayed. Under those circumstances, what will happen other than that the unions will resort to collective bargaining? 
I have another example to give. One trade union might have an official who is not an extremist or a Communist. Another might have a man with fairly strong or militant views - or a Communist - as secretary. He pulls his members out on strike and as a result they get an improvement in their wages and conditions. What will happen to the first official? There may be a tough young militant or a tough young Communist in the union who is after the official s job. The young man tells all the members of his union that the official of the other union took his men out on strike and got. results. He asks them what they are getting by going to arbitration. I think that in the present circumstances there is a very urgent need for a cleanup of the system in the arbitration court. What was more conducive to delays than the scandal that existed in the court for a period of nearly 2 years when the Chief Judge refused to use the services of 2 of the judges? 
He did. Two of the judges were declared black by the Chief Judge. For nearly 2 years they did nothing, because they had had a difference of opinion with him. 
The honourable senator may think so. But he knows perfectly well that it was a scandal as far as the legal profession was concerned. Two judges were being denied the opportunity to deal with cases simply because of a difference of opinion between them and the Chief Judge. The Government did not take any action to deal with the situation. Finally it transferred the judges to another place. During that period all kinds of complaints were made by unions because they could not get before the court because of the delays produced by thai situation. 
I conclude by saying that my Party has considered the Bill. We do not think it is very satisfactory, but we propose to vote for it because we think that in some respects it offers some improvement. The Government should be prepared to study the whole system of arbitration with a view to reforming it. should examine it with the employers and the trade unions and should produce something infinitely better than this Bill. Unless the Government does that, the arbitration system is doomed. 

 - Mr President, the Democratic Labor Party has asked me to speak on its behalf in regard to  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes because he was a fellow Victorian and because I knew him well. I can recall him in the 1920s when, as a former Olympian, he was very active in promoting sport at the University of Melbourne. He later had a most distinguished career in State politics and he entered Federal politics. He and I shared a common interest in foreign affairs and we had many a discussion upon foreign policy and how the security of this country should be preserved. Only a couple of days before he died he came to my office in Melbourne and we had a long discussion. As I looked at him I could not help thinking how well he appeared to be for a man of his age. He told me that he had just come back from the United States of America but that he was about to leave Australia again because, as a former Rhodes scholar, he had been extended the honour of an invitation to the Cecil Rhodes centenary celebrations which were to be held shortly in South Africa. It was typical of  Sir Wilfrid  that he then told me that he proposed to extend his tour abroad because he felt that he had contacts which could be of value to Australia, particularly from a defence and a security point of view. He proposed at his own expense to extend his tour to meet these people and to endeavour to put before them ideas which he believed would be in Australia's interests. Well, that was not to be. He has now left us. In my view he was a great and patriotic Australian. All of us in this Parliament will miss him. My Party offers its most sincere sympathy to his wife and family. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that an advertisement which appeared in 'The Australian' of Saturday 30 May, on behalf of a group of 42 geo-scientists at present located in Canberra, was sponsored by employees of the Bureau of Mineral Resources; if so, did this constitute a determined attempt by experienced scientists to seek employment outside the Public Service at a time when the Bureau is labouring under a sadly depleted establishment resulting from the loss of more than 230 officers from its staff in the last 7 to 8 years in the face of enormous salary discrepancies between those offered by the Public Service Board on the one hand arid the mining and exploration industry on the other. 
Is it a fact thatthe Public Service Board has had before it since 24th December 1969 sufficient information to allow it to adjust geoscientists' salaries to reasonable levels and so forestall an attempted exodus of this magnitude from an organisation of such national importance as the Bureau. 
In view of the factthat at the first National Convention of the Industrial Relations Society of Australia, in May 1970, the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board,  Sir Frederick  Wheeler, said: 
The Public Service Arbitration Act provides that claims made by staff associations shall be served on the Board and on all Ministers of State whose departments employ the staff concerned. 
As a practical matter, of course, the management side does present a single Front, and it is the practice of the Board to take the leadership in the determination of the joint policy approach and the presentation of this approach to the arbitral authorities. However, the policy debates are against a background of the statutory right of the departments, through their Ministers, to present their own views to the Arbitrator', did the Minister at any time, being conscious of the apparently delicate staff situation in the Bureau, formulate views on  a  claim for scientists' salaries which has been before the Public Service Board since 28th May 1969. 
Did (he Minister, in accordance with the provisions and spirit of the Public Service Arbitration Act, cause his answer to this claim, to which he is a Respondent, to be tiled with the Public Service Arbitrator. 
Why was not an answer to this claim filed within the prescribed period of  14  days within lodgment on 28th May 1969 and why had it not been lodged as at 26th May 1970. 
Does the Minister allow the Public Service Board to represent him in matters such as this without any continuing awareness of actions of the Board directly affecting officers employed in and concerned with the administration of the Department. 
 I am not a reluctant starter, but I was trying to listen to the previous  speaker  who was being interrupted and prevented from putting his case as he should. One fact that appears to be accepted today in regard to rural affairs in Australia is that there is a crisis. It is a crisis that has been caused because costs have been rising for the farmer and his prices have not kept pace with the rising costs.  His  prices are now starting to deteriorate. One can see the seriousness with which the average farmer regards the situation from the fact that farmers are adopting a form of demonstration which over the years has been completely foreign to them. I was present -  Senator McClelland  referred to this matter - at a meeting in Jerilderie early this year when, in one of the most fertile areas in Australia, some 2,000 farmers devoted a whole day to a meeting at which they said that many of them would not be able to carry on unless urgent remedial action were taken. That does not apply only to the fertile areas of New South Wales. The Kowree Shire on the border of Victoria and South Australia is one of the most fertile areas in the whole of Australia and yet Kowree Shire, from the point of view of farmers' incomes, today is one of the most depressed areas in the whole of Australia. 
Here we have farmers in the most fertile areas of this country forced to come together to protest against the conditions that they have to face and to call for remedial action. I am not interested in suggestions that this motion might have been brought forward for political purposes. My view is that anything that can be done to draw attention to the farmers' situation today in a reasonable manner and in a manner which can lead to constructive discussion is worthwhile. Today we have this situation of depression among farmers in the most fertile areas and the threat of foreclosure, particularly for the small men. Store keepers in many of these areas have been on cash for months and simply say that they are unable to underwrite farmers' debts any longer. In some country towns they will tell you that 30 or 40 shops, including some in the main street, are closing. Employment in the country areas is in such a bad state that large numbers of people previously employed in rural production are forced to go to the cities. This, 1 believe, constitutes a crisis. 
What 1 fear, as one old enough to remember the last depression, is that just as the falling prices and depression in rural areas heralded depressions in this country in the 1890s and the 1930s, unless remedial action is taken we may be facing a similar sort of crisis today. The worst thing that we could do in the present circumstance would be to panic. Australia is a great country with great resources. The statistics show that per head of population we are about the fifth or sixth most prosperous nation in the world. We have the resources. Unfortunately at the moment we cannot agree on measures to be taken, but I still believe that the know-how is available. I ask: What is to be done? 
In the view of my Party this problem has 3 angles. Firstly the farmers have urgent and pressing problems. They are in grave debt and are being pressed by their creditors. Some bought land when prices were rising. They are now in difficulty in paying the amounts of interest that are due. They are being pressed by the banks. Therefore we have to take remedial action on a short-term basis. The Government has taken some action in the measures which we passed last session and some promises have been made in the present 

 Bis 'get, with which we will be dealing shortly. But we all realise that the action that has been taken previously and the action in the Budget will not solve the problem. Ail that it will do is plug some of the holes. 
There has been public argument and disputation as to whether certain industries should be subsidised. I want to say that my Party is prepared to back subsidies on a short-term basis because we face a serious situation. When a man is drowning we do not argue whether it is worthwhile spending money on a lifebuoy to throw him. We throw him the lifebuoy. The attitude of my Party is to support the short term palliatives that are put forward even though we know that they are only palliatives and do not constitute a proper solution for the problem. We will look with sympathy upon all the propositions that are put forward. We believe that we have to keep the farmer, particularly the smaller farmer, going because the small farm, in our view, is a way of life and we are entitled to do a little bit extra in order to keep small farmers in existence. 
The second thing I want to say is that if we adopt these palliatives, these short term measures, it will not really be a solution to the problem. If a person is to build a house, what does he do? He engages an expert builder and possibly an expert architect. He does not simply call a builder and say: 'Here is Si 0,000 or S 1 5,000 or $20,000; build me a house.' He calls him and asks him to plan the organisation. When he is satisfied, he gives the builder some money and tells him to get started. The big problem in this country today is that we face a most difficult situation through the 1970s. All sorts of things may happen. Britain is likely to enter the European Common Market. We are told that the attitude of those people in authority in Britain at the present time is, to put it bluntly, that Australia has plenty of minerals, is a prosperous country and will have to look after itself when Britain enters the Common Market. My information is that while Britain thinks it can do something for New Zealand it believes that Australia has to stand on its own feet. Let nobody suggest for one moment that that will not involve serious problems for the primary industries of this country. 
Big discussions are going on about the future of the family farm and also on whether we will change our wool marketing system. The decision that will be made about wool marketing - let nobody make any error - will be a very important decision. I have had approaches from a considerable number of supporters of my Party who are engaged in the wool industry who favour the proposal for a statutory marketing authority, but I have had evidence put before me, which disturbs me, on the possible repercussions of such an authority on marketing. 1 think we all have to be very careful in this issue to make the right decision. But if we are to make the right decision surely one thing that we ought to do is to set to work, bring in the expert brains and ask them to make a study of the present situation and tell us the future of Australian rural industries during the 1970s. 
At a meeting I attended at Jerilderie that proposition was put forward and I was heartily in accord with it. It was supported by  Mr Pat  Hills, Leader of the Labor Party in the New South Wales State Parliament. The short term remedies which I have referred to were proposed. But the farmers - and I think they were completely sensible - said that in the long term there ought to be a special survey of the whole field of rural industry in this country. At present each industry is trying to solve its own problems unilaterally. Some are claiming right to assistance in this direction, some in others. Different industries have different marketing outlooks. lt appears to me that if we are to face the 1970s we ought to have an inquiry by an expert body into possible trends here and overseas in order to determine a policy of general principles to cover Australian rural industries as far as this can possibly be done. For that purpose my Party has proposed a commission of inquiry into rural industries. This proposition has been put forward in the Senate and has been debated on 2 occasions. I regret to say that it has not met with the agreement of members of the Government or with the agreement of the Australian Labor Party, but we believe that whether they agree with it now or not this country has no alternative but to seek an expert body to conduct a complete survey of rural industries and to determine principles for the 1970s. 
The honourable senator says that royal commissions are unpopular. They are not. People refer to the delays and so on but whether we call the inquiry a royal commission, a commission or a survey, we will never get anywhere and will never be able to determine principles in the whole field until we have it. The Democratic Labor Party will persist in its demand that such an inquiry bc set on foot to prepare Australian rural industry for the serious problems of the future. Finally, let me say that this is not just an Australian matter; it is a world matter. All over the world there are problems between primary producers and governments. In France the other day the chicken farmers parcelled up their chickens and posted the whole lot to the Minister for Agriculture. This matter has to be dealt with world wide. I hope that we take action through the United Nations bodies and others to deal with the question of credit and capital on a world basis because fundamentally we have to solve these problems not just in Australia but on a world basis. 
I ask the following question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: Is the 
Government aware of the grave concern among meat producers at the shortage of meat inspectors, which seriously impedes marketing and threatens the future of an industry which is vital to Australia at the present time? Is the shortage due to the unsatisfactory conditions of employment and rates of pay? Has the Government any plans to improve the situation? 
Is the Minister  representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport aware that in the port of Melbourne shortages of containers, failure of equipment to function, industrial troubles and other factors have caused containerisation to create a bottleneck hindering rather than promoting the effective handling of cargo? Has the Minister any action in mind to remedy this grave containerisation problem? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service obtain from the Employment Division of the Department of Labour and National Service a statement on employment trends in manufacturing firms which service rural industries in Victoria? I ask this question particularly in the light of a recent statement that one firm manufacturing agricultural implements has been forced to dismiss about one-fifth of its employees. Will the Minister in the course of the report indicate whether his Department has been able to absorb in other positions those employees who have been dismissed? 
I believe that it is desirable that matters such as this be discussed and settled in an atmosphere of co-operation. I rise merely to say that the members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party have been told that they may vote freely on all the issues that are to come up for decision, as, I understand, is the case with other senators; but all the members of my Party agree with what is set out in this proposal. We see nothing wrong with it. We believe that it is a good idea to say that the actual sitting days shall be decided as the occasion arises, because we are entering a period in which we will be experimenting with committees. In these circumstances it is a good idea to leave a decision on the days of sitting as open as possible. For that reason, whilst we members of the Democratic Labor Party have no desire to obstruct any co-operation that may be felt desirable, we believe that this proposal is the right way to deal with the matter and we are prepared to vote for it. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) [2.40]  -  I wish to raise a matter that I believe is built into the motion that has been moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  I have heard  Senator Murphy,  standing in his place here in the Senate, say that the validities and virtues of the Senate should be preserved. I found myself on that occasion, as I find myself today, of the same opinion. I wish to remind honourable senators of how this matter has crept into the Senate underneath the doors, as it were. Let me remind honourable senators of what happened. 
It was agreed in the House of Representatives - since it seems to be the fashion these days, I will not use the traditional expression - that the Standing Orders Committee of that House should sit and examine the problem, as the House saw it, that related to the sitting days, times and periods of the House. On that Committee sat the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  Then last week the report of the Standing Orders Committee of the House of Representatives was brought before the House, as I understand it, by  Mr Speaker,  and it was debated for 3 days. The House of Representatives then came to the conclusion that the proposed cycle that we have before us today was the method by which that House should sit and conduct its business. 
There are 2 interesting points to observe from that. One is that the matter was referred to the Standing Orders Committee of the House of Representatives, which produced a report. The other is that the House then decided that that was the way it wished to have its sittings. In this process there was one significant parliamentary and constitutional point that was advanced, maintained and sustained, and that was that the House should refer to its appropriate committee a full examination of the problem that apparently arose and caused the Standing Orders Committee of the House to sit and report. 
It is conclusive, on the experience I have had in the last week, that in this context the House of Representatives paid no regard whatsoever to the Senate. It did not consider in any way what were the problems that confronted the Senate. It just moved to adopt the proposal. Now, sneaking underneath the doors of the Senate comes this motion which the Senate has not had enough time to look at. I have been a soldier and I have been a politician. As a soldier, I have a good look at the ground over which I am to advance because, as likely as not, it is filled with mines. As a politician, I know that there are many booby traps unless these matters are fully examined. 
I consider that, at the very least, any proposal that related to the conduct of the business of the Senate should have been discussed between the managers of the 2 Houses at some level or should have been the subject of some expression of opinion by the Senate as a result of which our Standing Orders Committee could have examined this matter pari passu with the examination by the House of Representatives. But it is now brought into the Senate as a whole with very little warning, and we are expected to embark upon a process of changing the sittings of the Senate to conform with decisions that have already been taken in another place. The problems that are involved are not yet fully discerned. At this stage I will not say anything further, except to indicate that the matters that will flow from this motion, if it is carried, will be examined by me at least in some depth before we reach final conclusions on the matters that are buried inside this motion. 

 Senator POYSER (Victoria) 12.441-1 support with some reservations the motion moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. I have some misgivings in relation to the situation outlined by  Senator Murphy  because the Senate has a freedom that does not exist in another place in relation to normal debates, question time and other matters. 1 can visualise, that if we reach the stage where we are sitting 3 days a week for 2 weeks and then not sitting for a week, we will be sitting for far fewer hours than we are now. I expected that any system to be introduced would give us a number of sitting hours at least equal to those operating at present, and would involve less travelling for senators, particularly for those who live in the States furtherest from the capital. We should introduce more sanity into our sitting arrangements. Now I find that we are discussing a system of sitting for 3 days in each of 2 weeks and then adjourning for the third week, accompanied by a move to restrict question time.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has indicated a desire to curtail our present privileges in respect of questions on notice. 
Could the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs give us details of the attack by Communist forces on a Vietnam orphanage, resulting in injury and death to the children concerned? Does the Minister think that the leaders of those responsible for the attack should be invited to Australia to participate in the Moratorium campaign? 
I present from 1941 residents of Australia the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament Assembled. 
The Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes. 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution.' Page 9S1); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian gallup poll, published in the Melbourne Herald', 14th November 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Are the reports that Australia has arranged to bring 50 meat inspectors from New Zealand to cope with the disruption of our meat export trade caused by the shortage of meat inspectors in Australia correct? While this action is commendable in one sense, is it not embarrassing to Australians to have revealed the situation that we have not provided properly for inspectors in one of our most important industries? Is not the long term remedy the improvement of the conditions of recruitment and service of meat inspectors in Australia so that we may provide our own? 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. Will the Minister note that most honourable senators are more interested in fighting the cause of bona fide migrants who are trying to enter this country in order to embark on a new life than in fighting the cause of political agitators who want to come here to start political bushfires, including some who are prepared to stand up to their principles only on an expense account of Si, 000 a day? 
Normally the attitude of the Australian Democratic Labor Party upon a matter so important as the Budget would have been given by its Leader,  Senator Gair.  Regrettably  Senator Gair  is ill.  His  illness is not serious, but he has been ordered by his medical adviser to seek full recovery in the bland climate of the sunshine State of Queensland. The Democratic Labor Party cannot support the amendment which has been moved by the Australian Labor Party. Therefore,  Mr Deputy President,  I formally advise you that for the present my remarks will not be directed to the main question. I propose to refer to the amendment moved by the Opposition, foreshadow a further amendment and reserve my right to speak on the main issue at a later stage. As I have said, the DLP cannot support the amendment which has been moved by the Labor Party because it has found on examination that the amendment is entirely destructive in character, lt contains a number of clauses which pinpoint certain defects in the Budget, but offers no constructive remedies. This failure to be constructive on an issue as vital as the Budget in our view makes the Labor Party's amendment hopeless of improvement. Therefore, the Democratic Labor Party intends in these circumstances to move its own amendment. 1 foreshadow that at a later stage I shall move, on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party: 
At end of motion, add 'but the Senate is of the opinion that: 
the defence vote still does not adequately meet the requirements for Australian defence and security demanded according to the Government's own Budget statement by "the changes occurring in international relationships especially as they affect South East Asia and Australia, and of developing defence policies which will serve us in the strategic developments of the future"; 
there is inadequate provision to make the armed forces a career, encourage voluntary enlistment, and arrest the alarming rate of resignations by improved conditions of engagement and service; 
the Budget merely plugs holes in social services and makes no provision for a comprehensive national insurance scheme or for necessary aid for family life through better child endowment, maternity allowances, housing, health and education assistance; 
the Budget again fails to remove pensions from the area of politics by setting up an independent tribunal of experts to determine pension rates; 
the Budget fails to properly compensate pensioners for cost of living increases; 
the Budget fails to ameliorate in a substantial way the restrictive operation of the means test; 
while offering limited short term relief to primary producers, the Budget fails to provide for the necessary examination of the whole structure of rural industry by an expert Commission which could advise the Government on the application of fundamental long term remedies; 
the Budget offers no adequate provision for decentralisation; and (SO the Budget fails to ensure that the tax burden is equitably distributed over the community by action to prevent evaders employing legal technicalities to avoid their responsibility'. 
Honourable senators will observe that while the amendment moved by the Australian Labor Party, to which 1 will address myself, is purely destructive and contains no constructive proposals to improve the Budget, on the contrary the amendment which will be moved later by the Democratic Labor Party seeks to offer constructive remedies for those defects which in our view exist in the Budget. For example, the amendment of the ALP makes no reference at all to the vital issue of our defence. 
Our Party does not adopt the suggestion put by some people that we should protest merely because there may not have been an increase or a desirable increase in the defence vote each year. We realise that there is always room in housekeeping for differences from year to year. Our objection is to the failure of the Budget to contain an indication of a co-ordinated plan for the future defence of our country - a plan which should be based upon vital proposals such as one for a naval base in the west for the defence of northern Australia and also for our commitments to the assistance of allies, particularly those in South East Asia. The ALP amendment makes no reference at all to what is perhaps a vital issue in regard to our defence - the increasing number of resignations from the forces and the failure to maintain the strength particularly of officers and noncommissioned officers. We believe that an essential feature of the defence vote in any Budget is that provision should be made for improved remuneration for those who enter the service of their country so that in future young men may make the armed forces a career. 
The ALP attitude to social services is negative. We believe that reference must be made to the need for a national insurance scheme and to the need for an independent tribunal to take the issue of pensions out of politics. Why do we have this embarrassing situation every year when pensioners come here and beg for an increased sum? Surely the proposal that the DLP haj sponsored over the years, but which no other party will support, commends itself to the fair minded Australian. We contend that a board of experts in social services should be appointed to determine a fair and just pension and that the pension should be the rate paid. We would like to ensure that while we are waiting for the determination to be made, something is clone to ensure that present pensioners receive the benefit of cost of living increases. We believe that a constructive amendment demands reference to the means test which today penalises unfairly thousands of reputable Australian citizens who have sought to prepare for their own future. 
We point to the problems of primary production. The ALP amendment contains a vague reference to primary production but contains no reference to the need for such a constructive proposal as that which we have put forward repeatedly. I refer to our proposal for a commission to examine all aspects of Australian primary production and for the elimination of the system by which one industry competes with another industry for favours. Our proposal seeks to ensure that the examination would be on a basis fair to all. We do not suggest, as the ALP does, a merely negative statement that the system of taxation is no good; we put the constructive proposal that a considerable sum could be reaped from persons who use legal technicalities to evade their responsibilities and so throw those responsibilities onto the backs of others, lt is the intention of the Democratic Labor Party in the Senate to promote these policies because we believe that, from a financial point of view and from a social point of view, they are for the benefit of Australia. 
One matter which 1 thought was regrettable in the weeks preceding the formulation of the Budget was the attempt to involve trade unions and professional organisations in a political campaign against the Budget. I make it clear that I. with everybody in trade unions and professional organisations, am seeking to improve the working conditions of employees. 1 think it is entirely undesirable that such organisations, particularly when some of their leaders are prominent members of a particular political party, should adopt the attitude that they will take a particular stand prior to the Budget and threaten the use of industrial action if their demands are not acceded to. 
I made the statement, which I stand by and for which I was criticised at the time, that I do not entirely accept the demand which these people made, on political grounds, for considerable decreases in taxation. I know, as everybody else knows, that the beneficiaries of taxation cuts will not be the underprivileged. What they get from tax cuts is very little. My attitude has been that, if it were possible to save $280m, then that sum should have been devoted to the pensioners, to child endowment, to education and to other deserving causes. I believe that the average Australian, knowing the plight of the underprivileged, would be glad to forgo the $5, S6 or $7 that he on a low salary might get from the tax cuts if he thought that sum would be devoted to causes which would help the underprivileged. lt has been suggested that, as a result of the Budget, the Democratic Labor Party might be placed in a difficult situation. We do not know why. We point out firstly that, in voting on the motion before us, no decision in regard to the Budget will be made on this vote. We are merely debating a motion that the Senate take note of the Budget Papers. A vote on such a measure could not defeat the Budget. What happens in relation to this motion is that the Opposition parties express their opinions of the Budget, but any decision to defeat the Budget depends not upon this vote but upon votes which will be taken upon subsequent Bills. We have seen statements that in relation to those Bills the Australian Labor Party will take action to defeat the Budget and that this will necessitate the holding of an election. I was interested in those statements. For a considerable period I was a member of the ALP, and I am aware that over the years tradition has been against that kind of action. I do not suggest that the Senate does not have the power to reject the Budget, but firm ALP tradition over the years, particularly in my home State of Victoria, has been that action to defeat the Budget in the upper House is uncalled for. I remember occasions when the Australian Labor Party in my home State has taken the firmest of stands on the constitutional issue of whether the lower House has not the power to control money matters. 
Of course wc have all read statements made in previous years by the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  suggesting that it is not the province of the Senate to interfere with or to reject a money Bill. I emphasise that the Senate has the power. When suggestions that that power should be interfered with have been made, the Senate has reacted very firmly. 1 merely refer to the fact that the ALP is breaking with tradition. on this occasion when it suggests that it will attempt to defeat the Budget. I was interested in a statement which related to this matter and which appeared in the 'Bulletin' this week. It said: 
The old possum stirrer,  Mr Calwell,  was in great form in Canberra last week. As the voice of tradition, he strongly attacked the Labor Party's decision to oppose in the Senate legislation which will give the States their $125m in revenue from the receipt duties tax; it was against constitutional practice and ALP tradition,  Mr Calwell  told Caucus last week, for an upper house to interfere with a money Bill. The recommendation to the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party to oppose the receipts tax Bill in the Senate was a recommendation made,  Mr Calwell  said, by a parliamentary executive of aging men desperate to implant their rears  upon the  back seats of ministerial limousines. 'You will live to regret this', said  Mr Calwell. 
As a matter of interest, although  Mr Calwell  is a backbench member of Parliament these days he regularly implants his rear upon the back scat of a ministerial limousine. The article went on to say: 
When Senate Opposition Leader Lionel Murphy claimed that it was ALP policy to oppose money Bills in the Senate,  Mr Calwell  gave him a swift one-two. 'How can it be - our policy is to abolish the Senate?' 
The situation therefore is that tonight represents a great break with tradition. The Australian Labor Party sacrifices the traditions of the past. It attempts to force an election because in the view of its veteran former leader, members of the Labor Party have been overcome by the starry eyed glittering of the ministerial benches which face them on the other side of the chamber. It is suggested that the Australian Democratic Labor Party should be conned or compelled - whatever term one likes to use - into supporting the Australian Labor Party in order to force an election on the issue of the Budget. I have read such a challenge in the newspaper, but nobody has approached me upon the question. Nobody has attempted to suggest to me what is the object of the ALP. I received no telephone calls. Repeatedly in the corridors of Parliament House I run into members of the Australian Labor Party, but none of them has stopped me and said: '1 want to place before you the terms of the challenge.' When they pass me they are so mute and pale that I wonder whether the shock of the proposition calling for a House of Representatives election or a double dissolution has proved too much for them.. 
In 1961, in a period of crisis and depression, the DLP made an approach to the ALP to ask whether there was any desire on its part to collaborate to try to get a better government in the interests of the suffering people. It was rejected with insult. We said at the time that we would make no further approaches. If anybody is going to proposition me, I would like him to let me know something about it on some other basis than making a very vague and indeterminate statement in a newspaper, a statement which apparently, because of the present control of the Party - and it still exists - members of the Labor Party in this chamber are afraid to stand behind. If there is a proposition, what is to be the situation regarding the issues which the DLP has always said are most vital in any Australian election, those of defence and security? Are we going to be asked to collaborate to put the ALP into office in order that it may overturn every policy that we see as being vital to the defence and security of Australia. I would like to know. 
I would also like to know what is going to be the controlling interest in the ALP. We are told that things are moving. I have made no reference to what is being done. But I and a lot of other people would want to know, where there is a proposition to put the ALP into power: Who is going to run Victoria and who is going to run New South Wales? I would like to know whether it is true, as somebody has suggested, that all the present moves portend is an attempt to replace the unintelligent left by a more intelligent left. A day or two after I received correspondence from an organisation which claims that it is about to set in train a tremendous campaign to bring the benefits of abortion to Australia, I read that the Leader of the ALP had come out and portended moves for the introduction of abortion. So I say to myself: 'If there is a proposition, if there is a suggestion that the ALP should be put in power, where does it stand on defence and security? Where does it stand on the extreme left wing control of its Party? Where docs it stand on the vital social issues?1 1 have been long enough in politics to know that if 1 am being called upon to go in any direction, I want to know the sort of ground over which I am being requiested to move. I think 1 have sufficiently clarified our attitude on those issues. 
I want to refer to another matter which has been mentioned by the ALP in its amendment, lt refers to the very unsatisfactory tax situation. I point out. that I believe one of the most effective remedies available is to catch the evader. But I want to say a few words about another form of taxation, and that is the iniquitous - and I use the term advisedly - receipts tax legislation which was defeated in this Parliament some months ago. 1 agree with those who say that this is a vicious, inflationary and unacceptable form of taxation. It causes an overwhelming amount of paper work, it irritates industry and it snowballs in the case of the rural inhabitant who has to pay more than the average person for goods because heavy transport costs are added. The tax acts against people who live in rural areas in a way which is completely unacceptable, in my view, to any member of the Senate. Because it has a snowballing and inflationary effect, it is extremely bad as far as the poor people are concerned. I have received correspondence, as no doubt other honourable senators have, from organised farmers' bodies saying that this tax is iniquitous and that in their opinion it should not be enacted by any Australian parliament. I have received a statement from the Associated Chambers of Manufacturers of Australia in which it is stated: 
This tax ... is among the most inequitable forms of taxation which have been used in Australia. 
Private employers had hoped that the Government would refrain from reapplying such an objectionable form of regressive taxation. 
Receipts duty tax applies to each and every firm or person irrespective of his ability to pay and has an adverse multiplier effect on costs throughout the whole economy. 
I want to make a considered statement concerning the attitude of my Party to this question. Some time ago the States of Victoria and Western Australia essayed to secure additional revenue by the imposition of a tax which was subsequently held by the High Court to be beyond their constitutional power. The Commonwealth, at the request of the States concerned, then undertook to impose the tax as a Commonwealth tax to be collected by the States. For constitutional reasons this tax had to be imposed uniformly in all States, even in those States which had not imposed the tax in that form or at that level. The Parliament during the last session, rejected the legislation to impose the tax, and it is now proposed that the Parliament be again asked to support legislation to that end. We concede the needs of the Slates for the revenue, but throughout this whole matter the DLP has at all times indicated its opposition. In Queensland it would impose a grievous burden of taxation where there was a comparatively light burden before. In Queensland where freight costs to remote parts of the State greatly increase prices to primary producers the tax would be a crippling impost. I emphasise the position of primary producers not only in Queensland but also in the other States. At the moment they are calling out for cuts in costs. They are in a desperate situation and this particular tax would merely add to the serious and grave plight in which they live. 
We are conscious of the stress that the rejection of this tax may impose on State Budgets and the difficulty that rejection would pesent. We would hope that alternative sources of finance can be found for these States to tide them over the existing difficulty and that a compensating formula can be found to avoid any future possibility of the imposition of the tax. We therefore cannot see any reason to reverse our previous parliamentary attitude should the same situation arise, that is, should a similar Bill come in. We will support any measure to validate up to 1st October 1970 collections made under the receipts tax legislation as we do not think it equitable that the States should be called upon to deplete their revenue and perhaps disorganise their Budgets by surrendering moneys collected in good faith. Our attitude so far as the Bill is concerned is that as a matter of principle we would not be able to support it. Therefore the position would be that if we are supported in our attitude, the tax would cease on 1st October this year. 
That is a matter which could be settled by those concerned. We will support legislation to validate the tax which has been collected up to 1st October. But, as I have said, assuming that the Government presents the same provision, my Party will vote against it. Those are the views of the Democratic Labor Party on the Budget and upon the important question of the receipts tax. We have not made our decision purely by ourselves. We took steps in recent weeks to poll members of the public, supporters of our own Party, representatives of business and representatives of the rural community. I have rarely found a more overwhelming feeling in our community against any legislation than there is against the receipts tax legislation. I therefore declare the opposition of my Party to the Bill should the Government reintroduce it as it was introduced 3 months ago. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise. I ask this question following discussions with and at the request of a citizen of Canberra who is anguished at the news that in this fair city the price of beer is to be increased. In his many recent statements on censorship the Minister for Customs and Excise has made it clear that he is in favour of a maximisation of civil liberties as long as they do not act unduly against the common welfare. I commend the Minister for this statement. I draw his attention to the fact that in the Budget an excise tax has been imposed on wine but that individuals are free to produce wine for their own consumption without fear of penalty. However, the same individuals may not produce for their own consumption that delectable beverage, beer, without risk of heavy penalties being imposed by his Department. On behalf of this citizen of Canberra, I ask: Will the Minister act to remove this obvious anomaly so that those who produce beer for their own consumption may enjoy the same civil liberties as those who produce wine for their own consumption? 
I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
 I ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has he observed the. report of a statement made in Sydney yesterday by the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Askin,  to the Retailers Association, in which  Mr Askin  said thai in his view the receipts tax was not a good tax and not a fair tax and that he hoped that his State could rid itself of that tax? Will this Government take into consideration the views of the Premier of the largest State, in terms of population, in Australia when determining future policy on this matter? 
I did see the report of the comment of the Premier of New South Wales. He was talking not in terms of the revenue that he gets from the tax. Quite clearly he is highly delighted to get the revenue from the tax but as I understood the report he was speaking of the method by which the money is raised, that method being usually referred to as the receipts tax. What he is saying in effect is: 'I want the revenue but would like to have it raised in a different way.' We all now have had the advantage of hearing the observations made by  Senator McManus  last night when he expressed the views of his Party in relation to the tax as a tax. I think that what he said was somewhat along the same lines as what the Premier of New South Wales is reported to have said.I read into the honourable senator's remarks a suggestion of an awareness of the need for the revenue to be raised, but it appeared to me that what his Party was directing its mind to was the application of the tax itself. I would like to see a detailed report of what the Premier of New South Wales said before I made any other comment. 
I do not propose to spend a great deal of time on this question. I do not think it is important enough to justify the expenditure of a great deal of time. I am not impressed by the attempt of certain people to impart emotionalism to the discussion of this issue, because I am perfectly well aware that the attitude of the persons associated with the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign towards the exclusion of  Mr Gregory  is that it is a bonus for them. They regard it as a wonderful advertising opportunity. They are the happiest people in the world, knowing that  Mr Gregory  is being kept out of Australia, because they believe that it will give them an advertising impetus that will help to increase their numbers. 1 have been in the world long enough to be cynical about all this phoney emotionalism on the part of people who get worked up about  Mr Gregory  or about South Vietnamese atrocities but who are as cool, calm, collected and steady in their blood pressure as one can imagine when they read stories about the Vietcong firing mortar shells into an orphanage. So, let me say at once that I regard this whole issue as phoney and I am quite prepared to listen to a lot more of this wild emotionalism about Australia being a police state and about people not being allowed to express their views. I have read in the Press about dissident elements of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party going along to the Trades Hall to express their views. I know how they got on, and members of the Labor Party who are interjecting know how they got on. In this community there are all sorts of people who are in favour of absolute freedom for their side and no freedom at all for the other side when they happen to have the numbers, lt is a matter of numbers. 
There is a whole lot of phoney hypocrisy about this whole issue. There are many people in the Australian Labor Party who will stand up and complain about  Mr Gregory  being refused entry to Australia but who, if he came to this country, would say that because of the colour of his skin and the white Australia policy he should not have been allowed to come here. I have heard people say that  Mr Gregory  is being kept out because he is a Negro. But 1 did not ever hear them complain when Sergeant Gamboa was being kept out because of his racial origin, and I did not ever hear them complain when  Mrs O'Reilly  was being kept out because of the white Australia policy. It was a great policy in those days. 
The Whitlam policy? 
lt is not my policy either because 1, more than any other, have been an advocate of a liberal policy in regard to Asians. 1 can say that I have heard more anti-Asian and anil-colour sentiments expressed in Australian Labor Party circles than 1 have heard expressed in any other circles, and those anti-Asian sentiments are still strong in the circles of that Party. There is any number of people who say that those sentiments have to be upheld. Let us not be hypocritical. 
The gentleman concerned,  Mr Gregory,  was to have been sponsored by the Moratorium. The Moratorium people are those who in this case say that on grounds of civil rights and people's freedoms he ought be allowed to come here. But a month or two ago the Moratorium people announced their intention of going into the hean of the city of Melbourne, taking over the streets, forcing the closure of the shops and preventing the ordinary citizen who wanted to go about his business in the heart of the city from doing so. Having done that, they now say that it was a success and they propose to do it again, but on this occassion for 3 days. Therefore, they propose to break the law. They propose to break the law flagrantly and to deprive other people of their civil rights. They also propose to import  Mr Gregory  as a stirrer of the people, to assist them in this programme. 
The honourable senator is used to stirrers in his Party, and to one in particular. It has been announced that  Mr Gregory  is one of a group of people who were approached to come here and who explained that if they did so it would be on a business basis; that they would have to receive first class fares and expenses. I have been informed through the Press that he was to receive $1,000 an appearance. All I can say about  Mr Gregory  is that his principles seem to depend a good deal upon his pocket. When he wants to come here for the purpose of stirring up people who say that they are going to break the law and take over the streets of Melbourne for 3 days, T am prompted to say that I do not see why we should import a person to deprive the ordinary citizen of his rights when we have thousands of people here already prepared to do it and without making any charge. 
I hope that nobody will suggest that people who favour the North Vietnamese side have any problem about putting their case. Newspapers, television and radio stations - all the media - oblige them. I would say that the ratio of propaganda for North Vietnam over the years has been about 4:1 over the propaganda for South Vietnam. The supporters of North Vietnam have absolutely flooded the airwaves. If they hold a small meeting which about 6 people attend, almost every television camera in Melbourne will be there to give them publicity. I do not understand why  Mr Gregory  has to be brought out here to get across more propaganda, because I do not know of any campaign over the past 40 years that has received as much publicity, weighted in its favour, as the campaign for the assistance of North Vietnam. 
I am amazed that people should get upset because  Mr Gregory  cannot come here. Some people on my right in this chamber - on the Opposition side - advocated that we should not allow the South African cricketers to enter Australia. It is not their intention to block the city streets or bring people out on strike, whether they want to strike or not. They do not want to impede our roadways and stop citizens from using them. They said that they were coming here to play cricket. I heard the same emotionalism about the South African cricketers. Some people said: 'Why should we let these people in? They must be kept out.' Some time ago an Australian born officer of the Rhodesian Air Force proposed to come here to visit his relatives. Some people who now say that  Mr Gregory  has an absolute right of entry into Australia said then that, because that officer was paid his wages by the Rhodesian Air Force, even though he was born in Australia, he should be excluded from this country. 
Yes, they did. I heard them - any number of them. We come now to the case of  Mr Bryant.  He is certainly proving a problem at the moment. The Moratorium executive has announced that appropriate steps should be taken to ensure that  Mr Bryant  did not address meetings, sponsored by the executive until he publicly retracted his call for arms.  Mr Bryant  went to Cambodia, examined the situation there and came to a certain conclusion. He believes in that conclusion. But what do the Moratorium people say? They say: 'We will not let him in to speak at any of our meetings unless he retracts his statement.' That is, he will not be allowed to speak unless he is prepared to say that what he believes is not true. I am sorry for  Mr Bryant.  He is having a rough time at the moment. He was excluded from the executive body of the Aboriginals because they declared him white. After being declared white by the executive of the Aboriginals he has been declared black by the Moratorium people. He is certainly having a tough trot. 
I think the hypocrisy of all these people is exposed when they attempt to tell us they are upset about  Mr Gregory.  Everybody knows that they are just the type of people, in the case of  Mr Bryant,  who do the very thing for which they seek to condemn other people. My view of the Moratorium is simply this: People have the right to hold demonstrations, but not the right to hold demonstrations as they want to hold them. If I were Premier of Victoria I would say to them: 'You can hold your demonstration in the Domain or at the Myer Music Bowl, on the fringe of the city, where there is plenty of space.' I would facilitate arrangements for them to hold an orderly demonstration but I do not see why shopkeepers should be compelled to close or why the streets of the city should be blocked. I do not see why people should be prohibited from using the streets of the city by people who say that they are all out for freedom. 
I would like to see anybody attempt to take that kind of action inside the Labor Party. I would like to see him make his own rules as to how he would demonstrate. I know how he would get on because I have had some experience in that regard. A lot of emotionalism will be displayed. Anns will be waved about, and people will get all excited and say it is a police state and all the rest of it. But within they are cuddling themselves with delight over this matter because they believe that the Gregory business is the kind of thing they will be able to exploit tremendously for advertising the Moratorium. The whole thing is a lot of hyprocisy by people who have no time for human rights and liberty but who are attempting to serve the interests of people in North Vietnam who, in many cases, are of their own kind. 
1 present from 200 citizens of the Commonwealth the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: Whereas - 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian education system. 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
200,000 students from universities, colleges of advanced education and other tertiary institutions, and their parents suffer severe penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968. 
Australia cannot afford to hinder the education of these 200,000 Australians. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for - 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present age limit in respect of the deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance for students. 
Increase in the amount of deduction allowable for tertiary education expenses. 
Increase in the maintenance allowance for students. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from income tax. 
And your petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, ls the Minister aware that there is considerable concern among persons interested in developing exports of a promising rural industry - plastic packs of frozen vegetables - who claim that the absence of satisfactory export regulations, such as exist for the export of other foods - for example, canned fruits - may cause variations- in quality which will cause this new industry to meet with problems from dissatisfied overseas buyers and possible discrimination against the Australian exporters? Will the Minister act to secure the industry's future by ensuring satisfactory export regulations? 
I present from 67 citizens of Victoria the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Victoria respectfully showeth: 
That due to higher living costs, persons on social service pensions, are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance wilh the ACTU policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Pensioners' Federation and by so doing give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our petition; so that our citizens who are receiving the social service pensions may live their lives in dignity and your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that a number of producers are claiming that a collapse in prices has placed the fat lamb industry in Victoria in grave jeopardy? Will the Minister make a statement on the present position and future prospects of the industry? 
-I ask a question of the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Will the Minister note that on 23rd June last the Australian Broadcasting Commission's television programme on homeless men contained a statement that one could not be admitted to the Matthew Talbot Hostel for homeless men in Sydney unless one had money? Will the Minister note that this statement gravely damaged the reputation of this worthy institution whose doors are and always have been open to homeless men without charge? Will the Minister note that  Sir Robert  Madgwick,  Chairman  of the ABC on 24th July admitted ina letter to me that the statement was untrue and promised that it would be put in the right perspective at the first available opportunity? Has the untruth been corrected as promised by the Chairman?If not, why not? If not, when will it be corrected? 
Can the Minister representing the Postmaster-General ascertain from the Australian Broadcasting Commission why  Mr Whitlam  was permitted, in effect, to open his Party's Senate election campaign in the weekend of 19th-20th September on the programme Four Corners'? Is it in accord with the Commission's proclaimed political impartiality that  Mr Whitlam  was invited to attack the Australian Democratic Labor Party and to assure viewers that DLP Senators Gair and McManus would be defeated, and the DLP was given no opportunity to reply? Does this piece of political bias herald discrimination against the DLP similar to that which occurred at the last House of Representatives election when 4 leaders of opposing parlies were invited by the ABC to take part in a 'Four Corners' broadcast just before the election to attack the DLP, and the DLP was given no opportunity to reply? 
 Mr Acting Deputy Chairman,  there are references in the notes given to honourable senators on the Social Services Bill to 3 main ways in which pensioners are assisted in obtaining housing and accommodation. I want to refer, particularly as it applies to my own State of Victoria, to the very serious situation that exists at present in regard to housing and accommodation for aged people and to urge that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and his Department direct their attention to this very serious matter. I point out that within recent weeks the Press has reported that more than 4,000 old people are on waiting lists for admission to 2 of Victoria's major benevolent homes. The Victorian Council for the Ageing estimates that the number will increase to more than 5,000 for all the benevolent homes and most of these are sick or feeble old pepole who must wait from 3 to 4 years before they have a hope of admission. 
The great tragedy is that some of these people will not live so long. Some old people living alone in single rooms are well enough to survive if they are supported by old people's clubs, Meals on Wheels or the pitifully few day hospitals. But very many hundreds of lonely old people, too feeble for pensioner flats, too old for public hospitals and too poor for private hospitals, sadly measure their prospect of admission to benevolent homes against their prospects of survival. The position in most other States is bad but nowhere is it worse than, or as bad as, in Victoria. The voluntary bodies, the local doctors, the social workers and other professionals in this work are all emphatic in saying that Victoria needs urgently at least another 3 large benevolent homes where our feeble elderly citizens can find hospital beds and receive the best medical and nursing care. The position has worsened from year to year for a decade at least and still the decline goes on. Any doctor or social worker will speak of the seriousness of the position of people seeking accommodation. No matter who is responsible, this disaster is too huge for the State Government alone to deal with and it requires Commonwealth attention. 
The Commonwealth cannot wash its hands of this great human problem and substantial Commonwealth funds are needed to cope with it. Thousands of these unfortunate old people are pensioners - the people affected by the Bill we are dealing with tonight. They are a Commonwealth responsibility. Yet I am informed that the Government has never met their full needs. People working in these fields say that even in public hospitals the Commonwealth provides only $5 a day for them. This represents little more than a quarter of the cost of daily hospital treatment throughout Australia. I urge the Government therefore to accept full responsibility for these pensioners. I believe the Government could also satisfy the financial needs of public hospitals. It could stabilise the national hospital benefits scheme without involving most of the patchwork proposals it has been considering for so long. The Government could earmark one quarter of the additional money provided for a crash building programme which must be launched without delay if the present system is to be saved from complete chaos. 
What I have said represents an opinion given to me by people working in the field. They simply say that unless urgent action is taken the position of these old people who cannot obtain admission to satisfactory accommodation will become chaotic. Therefore 1 appeal to the Government to give consideration to this matter. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) (9.45) - I appreciate very much the point raised by  Senator McManus.  I think these matters concern all of us. He referred to benevolent homes. I notice that a benevolent home is one which is maintained by the States and this is thus not a Commonwealth matter. 
They should be maintained by the States. However the States are unable to maintain them now. 
I also remind the Committee, as I did in my second reading speech, that the Government has been very conscious of the problem facing single aged persons. Although the State governments have been doing a very good job with money provided under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement, the Government felt there was still a very great need for further assistance. Therefore in last year's Budget the Government made available $25 m over a period of 5 years and now the States have commenced building units for single. aged persons. 
Although I have given this information before, I think that in replying to  Senator McManus,  who represents the State of Victoria, I should point out that the following building schemes have been submitted and approved in Victoria: One project in Brunswick which will have 216 units; one at Preston which will have 50 units; one at Ballarat which will have 8 units; one at Castlemaine which will have 6 units; one at Mornington which will have 8 units: one at Newtown which will have 12 units; one at Numurkah which will have 6 units; one at Warracknabeal which will have 4 units; and one at Warrnambool which will have 6 units. These projects will bc of great assistance. This assistance will continue throughout Australia this year and $5.7m will be made available. The Government believes that in this 5-year period it will make a very real contribution. 
I appreciate very much the point made by  Senator McManus.  It was because of the need of people for this accommodation that the Government made available finance through both these areas which it believes are so very important. Of course, further assistance already has been given to nursing homes. The Government is endeavouring to give as much help as it can in this field. I pay great tribute to those church and charitable bodies which are working with the Government to make accommodation available for our senior citizens. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the references that have been made to a learned professor and other liberal - with a small T - minded persons who have called for an investigation into the allegations against the police, and in justice to those gentlemen will the Minister take notice that they did not call merely for an inquiry in regard to the police, they called also for an inquiry simultaneously into the political influences behind the Moratorium which caused the trouble? 
I completely agree with the honourable senator's question. I think the issue started at question time this morning with the question of the need for everyone in Australia to live within the framework of the law. When people set about not to live within the framework of the law a whole series of consequences stem from it. I believe, as was put by way of question this morning, that the whole essence of our way of life and of our democracy is for everyone to accept that we must follow the rule of law and not resort to anarchy to which some people would try to lead us. 
Can the Minister representing the Postmaster-General advise the Government's intentions io regard to the former overseas telecommunications centre at Fiskville, near Ballan, Victoria, which was vacated recently? Will the centre be disposed of by auction or by some other method? 
Some time ago I asked the Minister for Air to make available to senators the regulations governing the use of VIP planes. He advised me that the regulations were being examined with a view to possible changes. I now ask him: Has the review been completed and, if so, what are the regulations now in force in regard to the use of VIP planes? 
We have given some consideration to the point that has been made by  Senator Willesee.  We appreciate his position, but we still do not see any reason why we should not proceed with our amendment. After all, if the motion for the second reading is carried, it is quite possible for members of the Australian Labor Party to defeat those sections of the Bill of which they disapprove in the Committee stage. As I see the position, they are not prevented from opposing those sections of the Bill to which they object at that stage. 
 Members of the Labor Party may object to the whole thing as a budgetary proposal but, by the procedure they propose, they are also objecting to something that is the policy of their Party and the policy of my Party. My colleagues and I see no reason why members of the ALP should not proceed with this matter. Whatever happens in regard to it, they still have their opportunities to speak against obnoxious sections of the Bill and to vote against them in the Committee stage. 
 They could vote against the third reading if it came to the point. 
 My friend asks: What is the use of the vote?' The plain fact of the matter is that members of the ALP either want what is their policy and our policy or they do not want it. On this occasion they are pinned to this point: Do they want their policy and our policy implemented, or do they not? If they vote as it has been suggested they will, they will be turning their backs on their own policy over a mere point which in itself has nothing in it. 
I desire to ask a  question of the Minister for Air. Would use of a VIP aircraft purely for the purpose of electioneering be deemed an approved use of such aircraft? If approval were given for the use of an aircraft for such a purpose would permission be given for the person using the VIP aircraft to be accompanied by a candidate who was the local member for the electorate in which the aircraft was being used? 
I ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Bearing in mind that a direct confrontation between the Commonwealth and Victoria cannot benefit the Commonwealth,  that State or the Australian people., will the Government seek an immediate conference with State Premiers to discuss and resolve the the issues raised by the refusal of the Victorian Government on legal .and. constitutional grounds, to pay pay-roll tax and also to examine the problems of ownership of coastal mineral and other deposits? 
As 1 recall the statement I made earlier, it contained a reference to an early conference between the Commonwealth and the States. 
But only in relation to receipts tax. 
Yes, but it would seem to me - I am expressing a personal view here - that if the Commonwealth and the States are having discussions at the highest level it may well be that other matters, particularly those relating to fiscal policies and to taxation proposals, would inevitably be discussed. However,  I  will refer the question to the Prime Minister. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
 I desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Can the Minister inform me whether the Government has arrived at any decision upon the proposals for long term loans at low interest rates for primary producers in distress? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
What is the present naval establishment in Tasmania. 
I regret the hairsplitting attitude adopted by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  I regret his suggestion that there may be something behind the amendment moved by the Democratic Labor Party which his Party would need considerable time to look into. The wording of the amendment is perfectly clear, lt seeks equality. I am surprised that the Australian Labor Party should need considerable time lo examine it. I am also surprised at the attempts to suggest that this or that particular word is wrong and therefore the Australian Labor Party cannot support the amendment. 
I am sorry to have to say that in the past few weeks I have noticed that whenever we of the Democratic Labor Party move an amendment which from the point of view of a considerable number of members of the Australian Labor Party is a good one, it happens that they tell us that while they think there may be some good in it they find that there is some little point which prevents them from voting for it. If my Party thinks that the Australian Labor Party has put forward something that is good and worthwhile we vote for it. I am sorry that in the case of the members of the Australian Labor Party it appears to me that one of the objections, from their point of view, to this amendment is not its wording but the fact that it was moved by the Democratic Labor Party. If this is the attitude of the Australian Labor Party then it is welcome to it. As far as my Party is concerned, we will vote according to the merits on measures that come before the Senate. 
Let us look at what we arc asked to do. It was suggested that there should be an adjournment. If the Australian Labor Party had said that it wanted this debate adjourned until tomorrow then the position would have been different so far as we are concerned. But we have been told that it requires an adjournment until next week when its caucus will meet. We have been told that it is impossible for the machinery of the Australian Labor Party to move in a period of less than 1 week. 
The only implication I could get from the 2 members of your Party who spoke was that they wanted an adjournment so that their Party could consider this matter next Wednesday when it meets. In the 1.1 years that I have been in this Senate I have seen the machinery of the Australian Labor Party operate. I have never known it to have any difficulty in operating quick and lively when it wanted to. I have not the slightest doubt that if there was a sincere intention to have a decision on this matter tomorrow, the Australian Labor Party would have moved for an adjournment until tomorrow and that my Party would have considered that move favourably. But when the spokesmen for the Australian Labor Party say that they want to delay this matter until next Wednesday and that they are not sure what they are going to do, then I do not think there is any other action that we could take. Any allegation of unfairness or anything of the sort is entirely unjustified. 
As for the suggestion that this amendment was circulated at a late date, I point out that when the Australian Labor Party proposes amendments we normally get them only when they are being moved by the particular senator in this chamber. There was a time in this chamber when we received a reasonable amount of notice about amendments to be moved but these days there is no notice. I cannot understand people complaining about procedure which they themselves adopt. 
If the Australian Labor Party does not feel inclined to vote for our amendment then that is its business. Its members say that they want the matter deferred until next Wednesday when their caucus meets and that they are not sure what they are going to do. I strongly object to the suggestion that we are unfair if we come to the conclusion that we in the Senate should not accept that sort of procedure. I repeat what I said before: lt appears to me that the trouble in respect of this amendment, as in respect of others which we have moved in the last few weeks and in regard to which members of the Australian Labor Party have objected to the wording or said that some little thing has been wrong with the wording, is that they do not vote on issues on their merits: they vote on them according to whether the Democratic Labor Party has moved the amendment or someone else has moved it. 
 I ask the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs: ls it a fact that although Great Britain recognised Communist China in 1949, in the 21 years since then Communist China has refused to receive an ambassador from the United Kingdom on the ground that no ambassador will be received until the United Kingdom breaks off relations with Taiwan? Does the Minister consider that that represents an attitude which should be endorsed by the Australian Government? Does he believe that in those circumstances the Australian Government could possibly consider destroying our relations with Taiwan and establishing relations with Communist China, which has treated the British diplomatic representative, the charge d'affaires, as a second class diplomatic representative and has refused under any circumstances to receive an ambassador? 
The views expressed by  Senator McManns  about the United Kingdom's affairs with Red China are in accordance with my understanding of the position. Australia has an ambassadorial establishment with the Taiwan Government. Taiwan has an ambassador in Australia and we have an ambassador there. This is quite good and proper. As for relations between the United Kingdom Government and Red China, that is a matter for those 2 governments. As 1 said in response to the series of questions by  Senator Murphy,  there can be no doubt that even though the United Kingdom Government and Red China do have an understanding, this does not appear to have had any significant influence on the relationships between those 2 countries in the context of what  Senator McManus  said. 
Is the Minister representing Minister for External Affairs aware that there is already a form of relationship between Australia and Communist China in that  Mr Ted  Hill, the head of the pro-Chinese Australian Communist Party Marxist-Leninist is received, on his regular visits to China, with the honours normally accorded an Australian ambassador or head of state, with full red carpet treatment and with a member of Cabinet to receive him? Also he is publicly announced as the close personal friend of Mao Tse Tung and Chou En-Lai. Does this not indicate the attitude of Red China to Australia and the forum of diplomatic association with us that Red China prefers? 
1 desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. Why are national service trainees not accepted for the Royal Australian Navy? In view of the increasing shortage of manpower in the Navy will the Government offer national service recruits the alternative of service in the Navy? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs: What arrangements, if any, are being made by the Department of External Affairs for members of the Cambodian parliamentary delegation now visiting Australia to meet members of the Australian Parliament and, in particular, Party leaders to discuss the serious position in Cambodia? 
As honourable senators are aware, the Cambodian parliamentary delegation was present here yesterday. I would like to have some notice in order to find out some particularity about discusions with Party leaders. I have assumed that that would be arranged. 
 Not with our Leader. 
If  Senator McManus  is referring to his own Party,I will make inquiries and provide him with an answer. 
J am somewhat surprised at the attitude adopted by  Senator O'Byrne,  the spokesman for the Australian Labor Party. He referred in scathing terms to the failure of the Government to do anything about the royal commission of inquiry by experts into rural problems. This proposal was put by me, as a representative of the Democratic Labor Parly, some time ago. He suggested that his Party has taken action as an alternative because nothing was done about that our proposal for a survey of the whole field of the rural crisis. T point out that the Australian Labor Party declared itself opposed to the proposal which I made on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party. With the Government opposed to it also, it meant, in effect, that our proposal had no possibility of acceptance. T am surprised to know that the Australian Labor Party felt such admiration for our proposal. 
lt moved an amendment that the matter be referred to another body entirely. Whatever reason Labor Party senators may have for suggesting that this matter be now referred to one of the parliamentary committees, I do not think they are entitled to pin their action upon the rejection of the proposal for a royal commission or a survey of the whole field of rural industries by experts, which the Democratic Labor Party initiated. If they had been in favour of it, I could understand their disappointment and their moving now for an alternative. But they were against it. They intended to vote against it. They intended to help the Government to defeat the proposal. T cannot understand why they now express such disppointment that it was not carried by the Senate. 
I do not know whether crocodile tears are being shed or whether the nearness of the election sponsored this proposal, but I am amazed that the Australian Labor Party, after declaring that it proposed to help the Government to kill the Democratic Labor Party's proposal for a survey into the whole rural field, now states that because that proposal was not carried we ought to adopt some kind of alternative. 
For several reasons I am not wedded to the idea of referring this matter to a committee of the Senate for inquiry. When I attended a meeting of farmers at Jerilderie the proposal was put forward for an investigation of the rural crisis by a committee of parliamentarians. The Leader of the Australian Labor Party in the New South Wales Parliament, Pat Hills, was present at the meeting. He stood up and said: 'For God's sake do not refer it to a committee of parliamentarians because that will be the end of it'. We have the position that the Australian Labor Party in the Federal Parliament is recommending what the Leader of the Australian Labor Party in the New South Wales Parliament has said would be the worst thing to do. I appreciate that the Australian Labor Party is passing through a difficult period at the moment when its right hand often does not know what its left hand is doing. 
It is here. At least 1,000 farmers attended the meeting at Jerilderie. The vote was put to them as to whether they wanted an investigation of their problems by members of Parliament or an investigation and survey by experts in the rural industry. By 996 votes to 4 the farmers declared against having a parliamentary inquiry. The Leader of the Australian Labor Party in the New South Wales Parliament then stood up and congratulated the farmers and said that they had done the right thing. I want a survey to be conducted of the rural industry but I want it conducted in terms of the proposal put forward by the Australian Democratic Labor Party. I want a survey by experts in the field who will be able to lay down guidelines for Australia's rural industries to follow in the next 10 years. The amount of publicity which an inquiry by experts would receive would be infinitely greater than the amount of publicity which an inquiry by a committee of the Senate would receive. 
 No, 1 am not seeking publicity for the Democratic Labor Party. However, I do want publicity for the problems of the industry. Nothing would suit the people who do not want publicity for the problems of rural industry better than to bury them in a parliamentary inquiry. If a royal commission were to be held it would receive 100 per Cent publicity. If the problems of the rural industry are buried in a parliamentary inquiry we are not going to get very far. The proposal is for the inquiry to be conducted by a committee consisting of only members of this chamber. Surely if a parliamentary inquiry is to be conducted it should be conducted by a committee which consists of representatives in the other chamber of rural areas. Surely they ought to be represented, t think that the proposal which has been put forward would only bury the desire for a complete survey of the rural field. I stand firmly by the proposition which was put forward for a royal commission. 1 believe that a royal commission would be the only effective means of inquiry and I stand by the proposal for one to be held. 
Nobody likes paying tax but we must pay taxes so that the business of the country can be carried on. In recent years there has been a lol of criticism to the effect that Australia is among the high taxation countries of the world. No doubt that is very true. A number of reasons can be given. First of all Australia is a developing country and that involves considerable expense which has to be recouped through taxation. We have a huge area and many of our services are more costly than in more compact countries. In recent years because of the departure of Great Britain from our area and the necessity for us to be more self-reliant in defence we have had to spend a lot more money on our security. Of. course that involves considerable sums of money which must come from taxation. 
The demands which are made from time to time for reductions in taxation come up against the fact that large sections of the community are calling for increased Commonwealth assistance. For example, the farmers are calling for more assistance and that assistance could involve even more considerable sums of money than those now being made available. There is a demand for increased child endowment and for immense sums to be spent upon education. The pensioners have demanded increased sums because they believe that what they are receiving is not keeping pace with the increase in the cost of living. Demands are made for more money for decentralisation and for development in quite a number of areas. 
In those circumstances it is very difficult to see avenues in which taxation can be reduced. However, a demand for a reduction of taxation was made on the Government prior to the bringing down of the Budget by three organisations. One was the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the other two were professional or white collar organisations. They declared that unless taxation was substantially decreased industrial trouble would follow. Whether it was because of this demand or whether the Government felt, as do some people, that it ought to do something for a section of the middle class who normally are Liberal voters and who felt that the Government had not been particularly helpful to them, the Government determined that there should be a reduction in taxation of over S200m. This figure will possibly rise in a year or two to about $280m. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party felt, first of all, that while these taxation reductions would amount to millions of dollars, spread over a considerable portion of the Australian taxpayers they would amount to very little for the individual. Our feeling was that since it was such a small amount there was a good case - we expressed that case - for leaving taxation as it was and for using the money to assist the farmers, for child endowment, for education, and to give the pensioners a fair deal. The amount of increase granted to the pensioners could easily have been doubled by taking only a small portion of that amount of $200m that was given in taxation reductions. As I said before, a considerable section of the community - the lower paid people - will derive a little or no benefit from these taxation concessions which have been handed out by the Government. 1 can only say that I think it is most regrettable that what we suggested was not carried out. If the average good hearted Australian were asked: 'Do you want the few dollars that you are to get out of this or would you sooner see more money given to the pensioners and the farmers, for child endowment and education, and to other good causes?' he would say: M would sooner see those good causes looked after than receive this reduction in taxation.' f believe that instead of granting these concessions, which in some cases will benefit only the people who are fairly well off, the Government should have reviewed the scales of taxation. [ agree entirely with  Senator Wilkinson  that this avenue should have been explored first. I think there is every reason for a review of the scales of taxation to see that the burden is not imposed too heavily upon those least able to bear it. 
The second point which I believe ought to be given a lot more consideration is catching up with the tax evaders. I do not necessarily mean just the people who try to dodge their tax commitments in an illegal way; I also mean the people who employ shrewd taxation consultants to think up all kinds of devices by which they can evade taxes and who when they evade them throw the burden largely upon other people. We have heard  Senator Murphy  refer to certain companies relocating themselves on Norfolk Island for tax evasion purposes. Obviously that is a subterfuge. The Government took action some time ago to close up some of the avenues by which companies were able to locate themselves in Canberra and dodge their taxation responsibilities. I can only say that f think the Government should have reviewed the scales of taxation and it should also have a look at these devices - I cannot call them tricks because apparently they are within the law - by which certain people, with the aid of shrewd taxation consultants and by locating themselves at certain places, are able to avoid the burden of taxation. When they do this, as I said earlier, the burden of that taxation is thrown upon other people. 
I never like increases in indirect taxation. In my view, direct taxation is the fairest means of taxing people, particularly those who earn least in the community. I believe income tax is the most preferable form of taxation because some attempt is made to achieve justice between those with plenty and those with very little. In far too many cases the person who has a very small income pays as much in indirect taxation 011 certain goods as the person who has a very considerable income. 
However, the Bill is before us. We have to carry on the business of the country. There is to be an election shortly. In those circumstances, it is our view that We have no alternative but to vote for the measure. The Democratic Labor Party will not vote for the amendment which has been moved on behalf of the Australian Labor Party and which, seeks to withdraw the Bill and to have it redrafted. This would involve a cumbersome procedure. The Government has to have money. We propose in a short time to take measures which will result in depriving the Government of some $80m. To withdraw this Bill and hold it up while it is redrafted would appear to us to be impossible in the present circumstances. The Bill will have to be passed, but I still hope that the Government will take action to examine these rates of taxation. I conclude by saying that in my view - I know a few people might not agree - it would have been much better to leave the taxation rates as they were. The taxation cuts mean very little to a lot of people. It would have been better to give the money to help families through child endowment and education, to increase pensions and to help farmers in necessity. 
In the absence and at the request of  Senator Gair  and pursuant to contingent notice, I  move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent me moving a motion relating to the order of business on the notice paper. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That Intervening General Business be postponed until after the consideration of order of the  day  No.  1 
This motion is in accordance with the view expressed yesterday that the item on primary industry should be discussed under General Business. It will enable the motion moved by me and the amendment moved on behalf of the Government to be discussed and also will give the Australian Labor Party the opportunity to have a discussion on its proposed amendment which replaces its original one. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party is always co-operative. We have shown that only this morning by our suggestion that the business be rearranged so that the matter which the Australian Labor Party wanted to discuss yesterday will be debated tonight, I have been here for some years and 1 have noticed that whenever the leaders of parties, with the approval of their members, get together and reach agreement it is always possible for business to be discussed expeditiously. It may be that certain members of this place have made arrangements which a meeting on Monday would hamper. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  has to consider his position from a number of angles and we have to await his decision, but, if the Leader of the Government in the Senate, the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and the Acting Leader of our Party get together, our Party will be cooperative on the point of perhaps avoiding a meeting on Monday. However, as I have said, I suppose it really depends upon the Leader of the Government and his commitments. 
My remarks will be very brief, firstly, because I moved the original motion and therefore I can refer only to the amendment and the proposed amendment, and secondly, because I think there is fairly general agreement that we must have a vote on these matters tonight and I want to leave as much time as possible for any other honourable senator who may wish to speak. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party naturally is opposed to both amendments. The reason for our opposition is that our original proposition was moved at the request of large gatherings of farmers and we feel obliged, therefore, to stand by our proposition and to oppose the amendments. In order to show why it is necessary for us to stand by our proposition and to oppose the amendments I shall read the letter which was sent to us by the Australian Rural Action Council which sponsored a very big meeting held at Jerilderie. The writer of that letter said that the meeting carried the following resolution: 
Immediate demands on the Commonwealth and State Governments to implement a short term plan to effect instant relief in fields most affected by the cost price squeeze, including Land Tax, Receipts Tax, Shire Rates, Consolidation of Rural Debt, Interest Rates, Freight and Transport Costs, Wool Compensation, Education, Improved Port Facilities and Power for Industry. 
That was the short term policy that they sought. But this is the crux of the desires of the farmers: They called for a long term policy as follows: 
The appointment of a Royal Commission by the Commonwealth Government to inquire into the total effect of the cost price pressures, inflation, tariffs, marketing methods, etc. on primary production and the rural community, emphasis to be placed on the appraisement and the assessment of nen long term developing programmes to secure the retention of the family farm as a major part of Australian Agriculture. 
That was the decision of that meeting of more than 1,000. fanners at Jerilderie in one of the most prosperous parts of Australia. The Democratic Labor Party, therefore, is reinforced in its determination to oppose the 2 amendments because that proposition carried by the Jerilderie meet ing was supported by farmers at other large meetings I attended at Edenhope, Ballarat and Hamilton. We feel we must oppose the 2 amendments because the ideas expressed in them are not what the farmers want. What they want is contained in the resolutions I have just read. 
I want to make one further point. The proposition envisaged in the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  calling for a kind of parliamentary inquiry was put to the meeting in Jerilderie. It was violently opposed by  Mr Pat  Hills, Leader of the New South Wales Labor Party, who advised farmers under no circumstances to have an inquiry conducted by politicians. He told them that the inquiry should be a royal commission conducted by experts. By an overwhelming majority the farmers agreed with that point of view put forward by  Mr Hills  and by myself. Therefore, we of the Democratic Labor Party must oppose the amendment moved by  Senator Murphy  simply because the fanners, by vote at big meetings, said that they did not trust such a form of inquiry and that they wanted an inquiry by experts. 
I refer now to the amendment moved by the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  on behalf of -the Government. The Government has objected because it believes that royal commissions have a sinister sound to most people who regard them as inquiries which take years and which often do not result in any action. 
Many honourable senators reckon that there is one too many in the Senate. The point I want to make is that the objection that royal commissions take a long time does not hold in this case because the farmers envisage that there would be remedial action on a short term basis while the royal commission was surveying the whole field and planning the broader guidelines of the primary industries. When one considers that the position of our primary industries is bound up to some degree with what happens overseas where there are primary production crises, one can see that there are very powerful reasons for having a royal commission which will survey the whole field. The Government says that it can have single inquiries in single industries by bodies which would take expert advice. But I have heard some of them say that they have those already and they do not seem to have been particularly successful if one considers the situation of primary industry. 
What we need is a broad inquiry. The Committee of Economic Inquiry - the Vernon Committee - attempted to have a general inquiry as part of a bigger inquiry. What we want is a broad inquiry which would survey the field generally rather than a system in which each industry tries to get advantages, organisation, concessions or assistance from the Government without regard to what may be the position of other industries. Surely there is every need for an all-embracing inquiry to consider the whole field rather than to have single boards or bodies merely attending to the requirements of a particular industry. We all know that the degree to which a particular industry can get help often will depend upon the degree of organisation in that industry and upon the amount of political influence that it has. 
Therefore, we believe that the farmers knew what they wanted when they said that they wanted a royal commission to survey the whole field. We will stand by what the farmers, in their correspondence, asked us to move in the Senate. We are opposed to  Senator Murphy's  proposal to remit the matter to the Standing Committee because it will not be able to devote its time exclusively to this matter. If there is to be an inquiry into the whole field of primary industry, it would have to be done by a body which concentrated upon that huge task alone. The second thing that 1 want to say about that proposal is that no doubt some members of the Standing Committee have a knowledge of rural industries. For example, in my view, nobody in Australia would be a better representative of rural industries or a better member of the inquiry into the affairs of rural industries than the  Chairman, Senator Bull.  There are others who,  in  all modesty, would admit that their interests have been in another field. I believe that this inquiry is so important that it ought to be conducted by experts in the particular fields. 
Therefore, I would have, thought that it would have been a better proposal for the 
Australian Labor Party to have moved for a joint select committee of both Houses to inquire into the matter because experts in the rural field - members from both Houses, members from rural electorates and so on - could have been members of that select committee. There might have been something to be said for that proposal, but very little can be said for referring the matter to the Standing Committee, which has many other duties and which will find it almost impossible to cover the whole field. One member of that Committee has said to me already that if the decision is made to refer to that Committee an inquiry into the whole field of primary industry he felt he would have to resign because he did not feel that it would be competent for that Committee to investigate such an issue. I conclude by saying that my Party feels that it has  a  duty to oppose the 2 amendments and to stand firm by the proposition which we have been asked by a number of meetings of farmers almost unanimously to put in the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Has the Postmaster-General noted reports in the Melbourne Press that Australian troops in Vietnam will be able to ring home at rates of $10.80 per 3 minutes plus $3.60 for each additional minute; if so, are these rates correct and why do they compare so unfavourably with rates to United Kingdom, $7.50; Canada and United States of America from $6.09 to $10.80; and Hong Kong and South Africa, $7.50. 
Telephone calls between Australia on the one hand and Britain, Canada, Hong Kong, South Africa and the United Stales of America on the other, are routed over direct circuits between Australia and those countries, whereas telephone calls between Australia and South Vietnam must be routed via an intermediate point (Hong Kong) since there are no direct circuits between Australia and South Vietnam. Calls connected via an intermediate point involve extra handling costs and it is necessary to apply higher charges to cover these costs. 
The existing charges for telephone calls to and from South Vietnam, namely, $10.80 for the first three minutes and $3.60 for  each  additional minute are  in  accord  with  those applying for  calls  to other countries in South Bast Asia, including Cambodia and Laos which are also switched via Hong Kong. Like South Vietnam, these countries do not have direct circuits to Australia because there  is  insufficient traffic to warrant the substantial outlay that would be involved in the establishment of such circuits. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the strong opposition from many pig producers to the proposed voluntary levy to finance research and other projects which they consider to be of doubtful value? Will the Minister for Primary Industry grant the request of these producers for a poll or referendum to determine the issue? If not, what are the reasons for the decision? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister -for Education noted the statement by the Catholic education authorities in Canberra on the deteriorating financial situation of their schools, necessitating considerable increases in their fees? Will the Minister give consideration to the claims of private schools of all kinds in the National Territory for assistance, particularly because their existence saves the Commonwealth considerable education costs? 
-^4 desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the.' Minister for Primary Industry. What plans has the Government for overall action on a national basis to solve Australia's rural crisis rather than the present  indiscriminate  and unsatisfactory hole plugging of individual industries? Will :the Government give further considera'tion to. the call df many farmers' organisations for a commission of experts to survey, the whole field of Australian rural industry and prepare plans, to solve the problems of the 1 9.70s? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. Will the Government bear in mind that any austerity programme by Commonwealth and State governments should be planned and controlled carefully so that the private business sector and the private investor, are not panicked into excessive similar programmes and so lay the foundation for depression and unemployment, as happened in 1930? With the share market in a bad way and with the rural community's purchasing power gravely diminished, is there not need for great care lest austerity get out of hand and lead to a lack of confidence, unemployment and depression? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing- the Minister for Customs and Excise, who I think is the appropriate Minister. Does the Minister realise that recent publicity on possible tariff revision and reform, including divisions of opinion at Cabinet level, has left secondary industry in a condition of extreme doubt and uncertainty, thus making future planning and development most difficult? Will the Government, with the Tariff Board, expedite the making of a clear statement of decisions proposed, so that secondary industry may know where to go? 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party will support the motion that has been moved by  Senator Greenwood.  Frankly, we do not see how anyone could oppose a motion which merely asserts that self government or independence should not be imposed upon the people of the Territory contrary to the freely expressed wishes of the people through their parliamentary representatives. There has been some discussion on the question whether the people of New Guinea are ready for independence. There has been a suggestion that anybody who hints that they are not is not playing the game. I think independence is inevitable and I think it will come soon. However, I also want to make it clear that I do not believe that independence will come because New Guinea is united or ready for indepencene. I do not believe it will come because the Government of this country believes in its heart that New Guinea is ready for independence. 
In New Guinea today there is a large number  of  completely unsophisticated people who would not know the meaning of independence if you were to mention it to them. There is a more sophisticated section which has some understanding of what is involved. The latter group is vocal, but not over-vocal in expressing its opinions. At the moment the people of that section are inclined to go for independence  Got  so much because in their hearts many of them believe that they are entirely ready for it, but because they think that it must come and that outside world opinion will force it on them. Therefore they think that they must accept it. 
I believe that independence for New Guinea is inevitable and within a very short period. Of course, it is easy to impose independence upon a country. It will be a very different thing when that country has to be govern mentally and economically viable. I have  no  hesitation  in  saying that I do not think that New Guinea is yet ready to become governmentally or economically viable, but I accept the situation that the people of New Guinea will be given their independence regardless of whether they are ready for it. Independence will be imposed upon New Guinea, not because of the attitude of the people there and not because of the attitude of the Australian Government. It will be imposed upon New Guinea because of international pressures, particularly from the United Nations. 
 Some people were accused of having a nineteenth century attitude when they said that parts of Africa were not ready for independence. But what is happening in Africa today? I invite honourable senators to study the type  of  government in power there. 
 Mistakes are being made. They were made in Africa by people who were infinitely surer that Africa was ready for independence than are the people who talk about independence for New Guinea. New Guinea today does not have the requirements for a united country. There are about a thou- sand tribes and about 700 languages. There is no conception of nationality. 
As  Senator O'Byrne  points out, a number of them do not want to be united. Already the people of Bougainville are wanting to break away. I would like the people who talk so glibly of independence for New Guinea to show me that when independence comes New Guinea will not break out into another Congo. I would like them lo prove to me that the violent antagonism between the highlanders and the people in the large towns on the coast will not burst forth into extreme violence. 1 would like them to prove to me that New Guinea will not follow the course of events in Africa and end up under the dictatorship of an army trained soldier from the Pacific Islands Regiment, or under the dictatorship of a number of others who have been trained in that field. 
In the circumstances, and conceding as I said before that because of pressures from outside which we were not game to resist independence will come, I want now to refer to statements made by  Mr Whitlam  to show that in my view they have been injudicious and reckless and have not contributed to the welfare of the people of New Guinea. I do not know why he made those statements. I assume he made them because of his problems with the left wing of his Party and the feeling that New Guinea was one field in which he might be militant enough to conciliate the left wing without regard to the consequences. He has assured the people of New Guinea of independence by a definite date. That is a remarkable promise. 
He did not say to them: 'In the event of a Labor government taking office we will do so and so.' He made the people of New Guinea a definite promise that they would be independent by a certain date. He went even further and informed them that there would be no problems about money with independence because Australia would pick up the bill. I contest the right of any Australian leader to give a blank cheque io people who, he says, will be independent of this country within 2 or 3 years. I believe that the Australian taxpayers would regard such a promise with a good deal of reservation. Is it wise to say to the people of a country approaching independence that an outside body will pick up the bill? 
Surely  Senator Mulvihill  is not suggesting that Holland today is paying all the expenses of Indonesia. 
Many nations are providing loans and other forms of credit for Indonesia. I would like to know how many nations today which have granted independence to countries formerly under their control have informed them, as  Mr Whitlam  has informed New Guinea, that once those countries become independent their bills will be paid for them. Look at the situation in New Guinea today. No doubt Australia's attitude has conduced to that kind of promise. Last week I spoke to a man with some knowledge of the affairs of New Guinea. He pointed out to me that under the kind of self-government which New Guinea has at present Australia is providing about $300m a year in aid and works. 1 have not checked that figure, but whatever it is, his claim was that a considerable sum was being provided. My informant told me that the Australian Government has relinquished any right Co say how that money shall be spent. The determination of that money which Australia provides is now, in bis view, in the hands of the self-governing people of New Guinea. How many senators would be prepared to say that as costs rise and more money is wanted we will underwrite such a system, and that we will provide the money without any say as to how it will be spent? That is the kind of promise that has been made to the people of New Guinea. I think it is entirely unrealistic. 
When the people of New Guinea become independent we will continue to give them aid. I think we will always do that, but to say to them that there will be a blank cheque available for their expenses once they become independent is not the kind of promise that ought to be made by an Australian leader. It can give rise only to hopes and expectations which the people of Australia may fulfil in the future but which many of them would be unlikely to want to fulfil. I believe, therefore, that in talking to the people of New Guinea we should explain to them particularly the economic facts of life. We should inform them that if theirs is to be an independent country it will be necessary for it to a big degree to be economically viable. We should point out to them that this will involve many problems. Independence is not a matter of breaking out a flag on a mast and then declaring a party; independence is something that involves very serious problems. When independence is given to a country, one of the first things required by that country is an administrative class or group. Where are the administrators in New Guinea today? There are some who, 1 am pleased to see, have been given positions of considerable importance, but there does not exist in New Guinea today anything like the number of trained administrators that would be necessary to enable independence to function. 
One of the things which obviously would be required if a country such as New Guinea were to function would be a proper system of education. But what is the situation at present? I spoke to some members of the highlands group of parliamentarians when they were in Australia and they informed me that in their view there had been a most unfair allocation of Australian assistance to Papua and New Guinea. They pointed out that because the urban proletariat, if they could be so called, in the urban cities near the coast were more vocal than others, in those areas of New Guinea there were secondary schools, technical schools and even a university. Yet up in the highlands, apparently because the people were not so vocal, they did not have primary schools even. Everybody is in favour of independence for Papua and New Guinea, but let us not fail to recognise the immense difficulties of running an independent country in a place where the problems of economic viability are very considerable, where there is not an administrative class and where education has not attained a standard at which the great bulk of the people can understand even what independence means, let alone function under it. 
I am nol in favour of speeding up education in the case of people such as those in Papua and New Guinea. To some degree in some areas these people are still stone age people. It may seem all right to some people to speed up education for people of that kind and to plunge them into a twentieth century civilisation overnight, but experience has shown that when that happens it is not altogether to the advantage of the people concerned. I want these people to be given every assistance and I want them to be educated, but I do not think that we can turn them into functioning democrats overnight. 
The attitude of my Party is that whether or not we think the people of Papua and New Guinea are ready for independence, they are going to get it. We must face the facts and be realistic; they will gain independence in the very near future. What is the best way to deal with the situation? My Party accepts that independence will come, but my Party says that any attempt to have a centralised government controlling the whole of the area is bound to fail. lt can result only in bitterness and hate between different groups, it will cause tribal fragmentation and, in some cases, civil war. The attitude of my Party is that we must introduce a federal system of autonomous States that would provide for cases such as Bougainville that want independence. Let us introduce a decentralised scheme of independence of autonomous States. Those States could have a central council for the discussion of common problems. We do nol believe that an independent New Guinea could function effec- lively under any system other than one where there was a federal system with decentralised control. Bearing in mind that we accept that independence is coming in the near future, our view is that a system of the kind I have mentioned will have to be introduced. 
 I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary 
Industry whether the Government is aware that, in addition to the grave problems of the pear industry in the Kyabram and Shepparton areas in Victoria due to the inability of canneries to accept a surplus of 20,000 tons of pears, the canning industry is threatened by low prices of peaches and apricots. Many growers are threatening to pull out their peach and apricot trees and turn to other forms of production. As buyers overseas and in Australia insist upon being offered a full range of fruits - pears, peaches and apricots - from canneries or there are small prospects of sales, what consideration is the Government giving to this matter which could leave even more pears than at present surplus and without buyers? 
I  ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. Firstly, has the Minister seen a copy of the journal Woroni' of 22nd February 1971 which has been issued in the name of students of the Australian National University and which can be described only as disgustingly pornographic? Secondly, as on previous occasions the student body took action and removed from control of the paper those concerned, has the Minister any advice on present student attitudes? Thirdly, is this pornography produced from funds to which every student is compelled to subscribe? Fourthly, in default of action by students themselves will action be taken by the university authorities? Fifthly, if the student body and the university authorities dodge their responsibility will the police take action? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Government considered any provision for the future employment of farmers and their families who, under Government plans for reorganisation of primary industry, may be removed from the land? Will the Government set up an organisation to consider the implications of this problem, including vocational training, housing and the establishment of decentralised industries to provide employment in country towns? Does the Government realise that now is the time to plan to assist those who may be dispossessed in the near future? 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. We believe in the principle of representation of the students, and the Government proposes to give representation to students in the degree of two. But it is the wish of the Opposition, I understand, that there be an increase in that number. I have listened very carefully to what  Senator Murphy  had to say. I have not heard him say anything which would convince me that the Government has not done as much as is desirable or necessary at the moment in giving representation to 2 persons from the student body. I may say that if we are to give students representation in the running of our universities - and that is something which is being increasingly called for by student bodies - we are entitled to expect from those student bodies a more responsible attitude than many of them are taking up at the present time. 
There is a test of the responsibility of the student bodies in this city in the action which they may take themselves in regard to the pornographic publication 'Woroni' which has been issued ostensibly as the official organ of the students of the Australian National University. I have described this organ as 'disgustingly pornographic'. There was a similar case involving the same publication 3 or 4 years ago. On that occasion, as on this occasion, I made a plea to the student body to take action themselves. On that occasion the student body of the Australian National University met and, by vote, the students removed from office those who were responsible for that pornographic publication. I think it is a test of the students in Canberra as to whether they are prepared to do the same thing again. Every student is compelled to contribute to the cost of the publication, but no student should be compelled to contribute to the publication of a magazine such as that which, in my view, was an insult to the university and an insult to many of the students who were called upon to contribute to it and to read it. Therefore, if we are to be called upon to give to the student body representation in the organisation and the conduct of our universities, I repeat that they have got to show themselves to be responsible. 
There were references in the Press to the effect that I felt the police should take action. I am sorry that the Press did not report exactly what I said. I said, first of all, that in my view it was the job of the student body to deal with that particular publication and the persons responsible for it. Then I said that if the students did not do it it was the duty of the university authorities to take action. I went on to say that I think it is deplorable that in so few cases in this country of ours university authorities are prepared to stand up to the kind of conduct which some people regard as permissive but which 1 would describe as larrikinism. Therefore, I believe that the job of dealing with the publication Woroni' is that of the students. They should take action and remove from office the editor and those who assisted him. But if they are not prepared to do it then the authorities of the National University should have sufficient regard for the good fame of their institution to take action themselves against these people. 
When the heads of the National University say that it is a matter for the police they are themselves disregarding what is their own obvious duty. Why have a University Council if, when you get an instance of conduct such as this, it tries to duck-shove it on to the police and the Government? What is the Council there for? These people are put on the Council of the university to see that the affairs of the university are conducted in a manner which entitles it to be called a university. But are we to take it that these great institutions, which are supposed to be the fountains of intellectual progress in our community, are prepared to condone the kind of publication which has been produced in the last week and which in my opinion merited the severest action by the authorities of the university themselves? However, if the student body is not prepared to act and if the authorities are afraid, then the police must take action, and I. hope that the police will take action in this case. 
My attitude to student representation is that 1 support it provided that the student body shows that it is a responsible body. What is the reason for giving representation to the student body if it indicates that it is not responsible? At some of our universities it has been successfully moved at meetings of the students that there shall be no student representative council, that every student in fact shall be a law unto himself and the small minorities can do as they like. Could we have any confidence in placing people in a position where they could exercise influence in the control of a university if those people showed themselves completely irresponsible and not prepared to take action in cases which have brought down upon their own university a feeling of disgust as far as the general community is concerned? 
Debate interrupted. 
I had not intended lo continue my remarks this morning but for a statement in the Press that those responsible for the production of the university paper 'Woroni' had no reason to believe, or had had no indication, that any action would be taken in regard to that paper. I have been told that the person mainly responsible for the paper is of some prominence in the Australian National University and that it is possible that this legislation will have the effect of placing him on the University Council. Frankly. I do not like the prospect although I believe in the principle of student representation. If we are to concede that principle then the Senate is entitled to say to the students: 'You are claiming the right to be represented upon a highly important and responsible body so you must show that you are responsible people.' Therefore, I have decided to move, as an expression of opinion, an amendment to the motion. That the Bill be now read a second time'. I move: 
At  the end of motion add: 'bin the Senate believes  that  a university student body seeking representation in the control of a university has an obligation lo show thai il has a sense of responsibility and regard for  the  good name of the university which would be manifested, for example, in a rejection of crude pornography as a feature of official student journalism.' 
That is a moderate statement but, I believe, a strong statement of the Senate's view that a university student body should be a responsible student body, lt will be noticed that I refer to official student journalism. I suppose a student body could not be held responsible for some of the non-official publications which appear on university campuses and which are of the type that certainly do not resemble the Salvation Army's 'War Cry'. The publication 'Woroni' is regarded as the mouthpiece of the student body. Every student contributes to the funds which produce it. Therefore it bears an official character, lt is is to be put out as a publication which represents the attitude of the student body then I think that the Senate is entitled to express its view upon it. 1 understand that I will require a seconder for my amendment. 
The DEPUTY-PRESIDENT  (Senator  Bull) -  Order! Is the amendment seconded? 
The Democratic Labor Party will not support the amendment proposed by  Senator Murphy  for the purpose of increasing the number of student representatives on the Council of the Australian National University. We do not agree with his argument that there is some obligation or call for us to accept the recommendation of the Council. If it were automatic that the recommendations of the Council would be accepted, the question could well be asked: Why bring those recommendations before the Senate? The fact that they come here is an indication that they are to be subject to scrutiny and decision by the Senate. The Government has scrutinised (his proposal and the Democratic Labor Party and the other parties have examined it. The Australian Labor Party has come to the conclusion that it agrees that there should be more than one representative, but the Democratic Labor Party and the Government do not agree that there should be more than one. We have heard the argument that there may be differing points of view among the students. 
Additional, I mean. The argument has been used that there may be a number of differing points of view among the students and that by increasing the representation we could ensure that those views were adequately expressed. But that could be an argument for increasing the number by  2, 3, 4, 5,  6 or  7.  Why should we limit it to just an extra one if we are to have regard to all the differing opinions that may be expressed? In my view, if the person is chosen by the students, as he will be, he should be able effectively to represent at least the majority point of view and also, if he is a fair minded person, to give some expression to minority points of view. 
The suggestion has been made by  Senator Murphy  that we should be bound by the fact, as he believes it to be, that the representatives of the Parliament on the 
Council of the University either supported this proposal or did not actively oppose it. I do not know why the Democratic Labor Party should be regarded as being bound by that, if it did happen. 1 do not know whether it did. The Democratic Labor Party is not represented on the Council of the University. The Government parties are represented, and the Australian Labor Party is represented. But all we ever know about representation is that every now and again we are informed that certain persons have been nominated to represent the Parliament on the Council of the University. I suppose that theoretically it could be said that when the report is made we have an opportunity to seek inclusion in the representation. But everybody knows that the choice of the representatives is made in the party caucuses. We 6 members of the Senate are not given any opportunity to participate in the choice. Shortly there will be 8 members of the Senate in that situation. We have no opportunity to participate in the choice and we are denied representation on the Council of the University. 
Yet  Senator Murphy  says that we ought to be bound by the decisions or the views of those members of the Council of the University who in one sense represent the Parliament but who actually represent only the Government and (he Australian Labor Party. A section of the Parliament is excluded from any representation on the Council of the University. So the situation is that, even if  Senator Murphy  believes that his Party and the Government parties should be bound lo some degree by the attitudes adopted by their, representatives, as we have no representatives we are perfectly free on this occasion to put our own point of view. Let me say once again that I believe in the principle of representation of students and I have supported it. But I have not heard any real reason why we should make the number  2,  3,  4, 5,  6,  20, 30,  or  40.  In those circumstances, until some more compelling reasons than the ones we have heard are brought forward, I believe that we ought to accept. the Government's proposition. 
Has the Minister in Charge of Tourist Activities observed statements appearing in the Press that proposals for new and large modern hotels designed to accommodate a hoped-for tourist influx have now been cancelled? Are these statements true? If so, what are the reasons and can the Government do anything to provide this accommodation which is so necessary for the expansion of tourism? 
1 ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Health, although I think my question involves the Minister for Social Services also, ls the Minister aware that, according to the  President  of the Association of Victorian Homes and Hospitals for the Aged, which Association covers 32 homes, the Chief Executive of the Church of England Diocesan Mission, the Catholic Vicar for Social Welfare and the Manager of the Salvation Army Social Services Department, homes and hospitals for the aged and children in Victoria are, due to inflation, critically short of funds and in most cases are reducing their services and the number of their patients? As government-sponsored institutions are unable to fill the gap and as the State Government, because of austerity measures, has no funds to relieve the need, will the Commonwealth examine this problem and seek to prevent the closure of homes and orphanages, which cannot be replaced? 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate noted with approval the decision of a meeting of the Australian National University student body to dismiss from office the member of the Students Representative Council appointed to supervise the university publication Woroni'? Does the Minister welcome this student endorsement of the recent decision of the Senate calling for a sense of responsibility, a regard for the University's good name and a rejection of pornography in student journalism? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI can only rely upon what I have read in the 
Press about this matter. I did read with a high degree of satisfaction that there had been recognition of the responsible point of view expressed in the Senate. I say no more except that I was pleased, as I am sure everyone was pleased, to know that the points that were made in the Senate and the responsible arguments advanced in this place had an influence for good. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Are A. R. Scoones and Coy of Kyabram, Victoria, of whom Butler Aero Services is a subsidiary, the only importers charged duty on a Cessna 310 aircraft, all other imports of this model having been duty free? If so, what is the reason for the discrimination? 
Is the Department of Customs and Excise also holding up duly free importation by the same firm of 3 twin engined Commanche aircraft? If so, why? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services aware that inflation has caused, and is causing, intense distress to those on small fixed incomes, which have been obtained through the exercise of thrift in their earlier years, and also to those on superannuation? Will the assistance for pensioners just announced by the Government be supplemented by some form of assistance to the equally deserving fixed income and superannuation groups? 
I shall not detain the Committee for long, but I should mention that I have received a copy of a letter from an industrial undertaking of considerable size in which concern is expressed about the fact that clause 3 of the Bill contains this statement: 
A deduction is not allowable under this section in respect of expenditure incurred by a taxpayer after the third day of February, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-one, unless the expenditure was incurred in pursuance of a contract made on or before that date, being a contract under which goods were to be acquired by, or work was to be performed for, the taxpayer. 
This is a fairly considerable organisation. It states in the letter that some time ago it determined on a fairly considerable expansion &gt;n the form of an investment in manufacturing plant. Naturally, because it was a fairly considerable expansion the company proposed to spread the money over about 3 years. Now it has been caught in this respect, It will receive the benefit of the deduction on the earlier portion. But, on the expansion of plant which it has undertaken under the impression that it would receive the benefit of the deduction and which might commence within the next year or two, it will not receive any assistance. 
The expansion was conceived as one operation which, because of its size, would have to be carried out in 2, 3 or 4 stages. 1 realise that the Bill will be passed. 1 am not going to hold up its passage through the Senate. I simply ask  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson: Am I correct in imagining that if a firm had conceived a considerable investment in a manufacturing plant over a number of years and if this expansion is only partly completed, does this mean that the firm will receive no more help? If this is so, 1 merely ask that perhaps some consideration will be given by the Treasurer to a plea by such a firm. 
I do not want to delay the passage of the Bill, but  1  feel that I must refer to one matter which affects northern Victoria. I do this particularly in view of the strong contention by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  that in the event of a disaster such as we have seen recently the matter has to come forward from the State before the Commonwealth can act. The Minister spoke of the 3 tiers of government and said that we should not take things out of the hands of the States. We have had a disaster in northern Victoria in regard to the pear industry. I went to that area with  Senator Little.  We were informed that the way in which to deal with it would be to deliver a hardship plea to the Commonwealth through the Victorian Government. The amount which they mentioned as being needed to pull them through was $400,000.  Senator Webster  has mentioned this matter repeatedly,  Senator Little  has mentioned it and 1 have mentioned it. 
It is a disaster. We have asked repeatedly whether the Victorian Government has made any submission on the matter. If it had we would be following what  Senator Cotton  said should be done. But we are unable even to find out whether the Victorian Government has submitted a plea to the Commonwealth Government. The Commonwealth Government has now stepped in over the head of the State and one week before the Murray by-election has promised or said it is considering a stabilisation scheme for the pear industry which will cost $10m over the next 5 years. We have listened to the Minister say that it is for the States to bring these things before the Commonwealth. We cannot even ascertain from any Commonwealth Minister whether the State of Victoria has submitted the plea on behalf of the growers. But what we have been told is that the Commonwealth has taken the matter over. All 1 can say is that that appears to be an indication that in this case the Commonwealth hits done exactly what it says ought not to be done. 
 I hope I can take it that the fact that this measure refers to the mitigation of flood damage only in New South Wales does not mean that the Government is closing its eyes to the necessity for assistance to Victoria in regard to flood damage. We have had in my own State of Victoria in the last month what could be equal to the most serious floods in the history of the State. A very fertile area of our State in Gippsland has been devastated by. floods. There was a period when one of the main highways - the Princes Highway to Sydney - was closed. The situation has become so serious in my State that I hope that the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  who represents the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  in this Chamber, will be able to tell me something about what is going on in regard to the State of Victoria. I repeat my earnest hope that the fact that this Bill refers only to flood mitigation work in New South Wales does not mean that .the Government will shut its eyes to the serious situation in Victoria. The Gippsland floods have devastated a wide area and have been a serious obstacle to transport. It is inevitable that heavy losses will be entailed, particularly by municipal and local government bodies, and a considerable sum of money will be needed to alleviate the situation. As the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair)  has pointed out, there have also been serious floods in Queensland. Therefore I hope that this matter will be dealt with on a national basis. I appreciate  Senator Fitzgerald's  insistence in his speech that it should be dealt with on a national basis. 

 Senator Fitzgerald claims in his amendment that the amount of assistance being offered is inadequate. I suppose that any amount of assistance would, be inadequate in view of the tremendous damage which has occurred. Therefore I am not concerned about that . part of his amendment although I agree that .a lot more assistance would be desirable. However, J am concerned about the second part of his amendment, which seeks to have a joint select committee of the Parliament inquire into the practicability of establishing a national disaster organisation. This matter was raised in the Senate in 1968 and on that occasion my Party' voted against it. It did so not because it was opposed to the principle of having such a committee but because, as I pointed out in my speech, at that time the Senate was in a state of transition in that the establishment of a large number of new committees had been recommended and my Party felt that the Senate should proceed slowly. I said: 
I have a feeling of some regret that this committee on natural disasters was not preferred to, for example, the committee on air pollution and the committee on water pollution which ave very important but which in my view are not so important as one on natural disasters. Consequently my Parly has decided that we cannot vote to increase  the  number of committees. However, if this proposal is revived next year and the terms of the resolution are satisfactory our altitude will be different. 
The matter has been revived by  Senator Fitzgerald  and my Party will live up to its pledge. The attitude of my Party will be different in that it will vote for the amendment. I and other members of my Party are strengthened' in our personal views by the fact that  Senator Gair  included such a proposal in his policy speech. In the circumstances we feel bound, apart from anything else, to support the appointment of such a committee. In his policy speech  Senator Gair  said:   . . we are now positive that only an investigation carried out by a joint parliamentary committee will produce the degree of attention and examination which this problem now warrants - . . 
He went on to say: 
I am disturbed' at the way in which various emergency situations - requiring both Slate and Commonwealth liaison and action - have been badly handled in recent years. 
Drought relief is a current example of the confusion and lime wasting which often occurs. 
What Australia needs is a permanent secretariat, consisting of State and federal officials, ready to anticipate and study natural disasters, evolve contingency plans, and act as the co-ordinating body when asked to. 
I congratulate  Senator Fitzgerald  on having proposed the amendment. Having pledged ourselves in the discussion on this matter last year and in view of the remarks made by my leader in his policy speech, we of the Australian Democratic Labor Party will support the amendment. 
asked the Minister representing  the  Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Furtherto the answers by the Prime Minister to Question No. 679 in the House of Representatives on 18th August 1970to a question on notice submitted by  Mr Crean,  M.P.: 
What is the outcome of 'some attention at Department level', mentioned in part 2 of the reply, and can section 51 of the Commonwealth Constitution be relied upon by the Government in order to pass in the Commonwealth Parliament laws for the rationalisation of and the rendering uniform the conflicting State laws in the field of motor car third party insurance. 
With regard to the Prime Minister's reply to part  4, ashe  is prepared to concede the Motor Car Third Party Insurance Acts of the 6 States (and the Ordinances therein of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory) are 'by no means identical', will the Prime Minister consider the time has come for the Commonwealth to intervene in this area. 
As it is clear from the answersto parts 6 and 7 that the deliberations of the Australian Transport Advisory Council have been at a standstill since as long ago as February 1969, will the Commonwealth itself promptly examine the merits of adopting a concept other than 'negligence' as the norm for compensating road acci dent victims and for the financial relief of dependants of those killed, 
In regard to the answer to part 9, is the Prime Minister aware that Saskatchewan, one of the central Provinces of Canada, has satisfactorily operated with 'Absolute Liability' (or, 'the assumption of negligence') as the norm for compensating victims of the Road Toll since 1946 in substitution of 'negligence'. 
In any future inquiry sponsored this time by the Prime Minister, will an assurance be given that evidence will be sought from spokesmen for road victims, the spinal clinic hospitals and such, apart from insurance companies, motoring bodies and law institutes. 
This question is identical, in all major respects, with Question No. 1657 on the House of Representatives Notice Paper to which the then Prime Minister provided an answer on 16th February 1971. I would refer the honourable senator to page 74 of Hansard (House of Representatives) of that date. 
My question, which 1 direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, concerns statements that proposals are in train for a claim through the Victorian Government for assistance to growers of pears and other fruits in the Goulburn Valley. We have been repeatedly informed in this House that the Government is awaiting claims. Surely at this stage the Minister can inform us whether the claim for assistance to pear growers was forwarded through  Sir Henry  Bolte. If so, what is the decision of the Government. 
 My question to the Minister for Health is this: In recent years on a number of occasions the Government has attempted to improve the financial situation of patients in private nursing homes and homes for certain types of aged people. On those occasions, almost immediately following the action taken by the Government, the fees charged in those homes have been raised, thus depriving the patients concerned of any real benefit from the action taken by the Government. Is the Government aware of this situation? Has it any plans to ensure that, when on future occasions it lakes action to improve the lot of people in these homes, they will really receive the benefit of what is being done? 
I ask the Minister representing the Postmaster-General: Is it a fact as stated in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 25th March, that the Post Office is considering cuts in the discount handling of registered papers and periodicals which in 1969-70 amounted to 150 million articles? Furthermore, is a statement in the same newspaper that the senior management of the Australian Post Office has recommended that the discount handling of registered papers and periodicals be discontinued correct? Is it correct, as further stated in the article, that the PostmasterGeneral has recommended this action to the Government? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Why is the bank rate in Australia over 8 per cent when in the United States of America, for example, it has been reduced recently to just over 5 per cent? Is this present rate a factor operating against inflation, as is suggested, or is it, as a eminent financial authority has said, a cause of inflation in this country? Are the statements correct that large sums of money are being poured into Australia from the United States to take advantage of our extraordinarily high interest rates? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. What are the functions of the commercial organisations which are described as merchant banks? Do they carry out banking functions? If so, are they subject to any government or Reserve Bank of Australia controls, as are recognised banks? Is the statement in the 'Sunday Australian' that merchant banks have brought large sums from overseas to Australia to take profit from our excessively high interest rates correct? 
 I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Has the Government received any protests against the entry into Australia of sporting teams, athletes and ballet or circus performers from Communist countries where one party rule exists and there is widespread denial of human rights, the latest example being in the denial of rights to Jews? Could it be that Australian protesters who are now so vocal protest only when a country of which they disapporive is involved and that their indignation is selective? 
The Senate and the House of Representatives met on 16th February. All of us were aware that there were grave problems to be solved in regard to inflation and particularly in regard to the rural crisis. Even allowing for the amount of time taken up by alterations within the Government, I cannot let the opportunity pass without expressing my keen disappointment at what I regard as an almost total failure to deal with important issues relating to the rural crisis. I would have expected that the Government would have taken strong action in regard to rural credit for both farmers and storekeepers. In many instances storekeepers have provided credit assistance which the Government should have given. The whole situation is briefly summed up in extracts from 2 letters I received today. They are typical letters, because I have received a lot of similar ones over the last 12 months. The first letter states in part: 
I have a first and second mortgage on this grazing property with a finance company. 
The name of the company is mentioned. The writer continues: 
The second mortgage is at 15 per cent which I was forced to take. They want, to throw me out in 2 weeks' time. I have auctioned the place with no buyers. I have applied to the Rural Finance Commission, but how long it may take is unknown. The first mortgage people at 7 per cent are pretty decent but they say they need the money too.  Senator, is  there a moratorium act that I could apply to to save my farm. 
Prior to the Senate election I advocated that there should be a moratorium. I thought a farmers' debt adjustment body should be set up to try to assist farmers pending consideration of their cases. Nothing of that sort has been done. There have been some attempts or suggestions by the Government for certain activity. At times they appeared to be bogged down because of relations between the Commonwealth and the States. 
The situation today is that a large number of people in Australia are losing their properties because of an almost complete failure to meet the situation.I turn now to the second letter which is in these terms: 
We have a general store, and the way things are going with no help from the banks or other agency we have a good chance of losing our home and store after 20 years in business. We are not an isolated case among country storekeepers by any means. We have security which should cover our overdraft but the bank manager says No' and tells us that this crisis in the rural areas could go on for years. If that is the attitude, there will soon be no country stores left in small towns. 
I repeat that many a country storekeeper today is almost bankrupt because of credit which he made available to farmers. He has received little or no assistance from the Government and he is going to the wall because he has fulfilled a need that some governmental agency should have fulfilled. The Parliament is going into recess at the end of April and what have we done? Let us be honest. We have done next to nothing this session. 
 The honourable senator is a contributing factor. He is a member of the Opposition. Everybody must accept some responsibility for it. 
 Yes. and the things done by the PaTty to which the honourable senator belongs maintain the Government in office. If his Party exercised any common sense as the Opposition the Government would have been out of office, but the Opposition has been the Government's bestfriend because of the way in which its members have carried on within their own Party. Let us forget the inter-Party bickering and look at the situation of the people who will lose their properties. The Parliament will go into recess this month for 3 months and the people will be left to themselves. I make my protest. We should be ashamed of what has happened in this Parliament in the past 2 months in the face of the rural crisis and of inflation. 
What is our position? We have today the highest bank rate of any comparable Western country. Great Britain has dropped her bank rate to 6 per cent, the United Stales to 5 per cent and the other day West Germany dropped her bank rate to 5 per cent. When this matter was raised in the other place and it was pointed out that oversetts interests are now bringing large sums of money into Australia because they get a straight out bonus of 2 per cent or 3 per cent by investing here, the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  replied that we should be pleased that Australia was so attractive to overseas investors. I repeat what I said before. I am completely ashamed of what this Parliament has done in the face of the rural crisis and of inflation. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether the Government is aware that one condition of Communist China's entry to the United Nations on which Peking has indicated it would insist is that it receive the same right of veto as certain major powers. What would be the attitude of the Australian Government to investing Communist China with this power completely and at will to nullify operations of the United Nations? 
Would the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs consider it a good portent for proposals for Australian recognition of Communist China that Great Britain recognised Communist China in 1949 and in all the period since then Communist China has refused to receive a British Ambassador? Would it be a good portent that when an Australian diplomatic representative chal lenged Chou En-lai on this point at the last internation! conference - he attended, Chou En-lai said: 'Well, we do have a minor British official.' When asked the name of the minor British official he said: I do not know because I -have never even met him.' In addition, will the Government consider asking Mao Tsc-tung, in view of his invitation to ping-pong teams to enter China, his views on the entry into Australia of a South African cricket team because Communist China so obviously does not believe in mixing politics and sport? 
 I ask the Acting Minister for Primary Industry: Is it not a fact that the considerable sales of wheat to Communist China in recent years were made possible because it was the policy of the United States of America, which has immense wheat production, not to sell wheat to that country? Is it true that people who are endeavouring to bring about recognition of Communist China by forecasting possible sales of Australian wheat to that country as a result of recognition would have to take into consideration the fact that the United States, with its immense production, could become a competitor? 
Can the Acting Minister for Primary Industry explain the contradiction in facts which were adduced to me in a dairying area of Victoria last week when I was informed that whilst  the  dairying industry has been successfully asked by the Government to introduce controls on production, and the Government has in train legislative and other measures for the purpose of cutting down on dairy farms, in Victoria licences are being issued to have new dairy farms brought into production? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
What primary industries at present receive tariff protection and what is the nature of such protection. 
I must congratulate  Senator James  McClelland, who has just delivered his maiden speech, on the ability and eloquence with which he made his first appearance as a  speaker  in this chamber. Naturally, I do not agree, with his attitude to this Bill; but I must say that I last heard him speak nearly 20 years ago when, with ability and eloquence, he was defending individuals against interference with their rights by the Communist Party, and I am glad to see that he still has the ability and eloquence that he showed on that occasion. 
This Bill is described as a public order Bill and a Bill for the protection of persons and property. Generally, people in both Houses are speaking of it as a law and order Bill. I believe that is a good name for it. However, I am somewhat surprised at the attitude towards the words Jaw and order which has been demonstrated in both Houses by speakers from the Australian Labor Party. One might almost come to the conclusion that they regard 'law and order' as dirty words. If that is so, I disagree with them. I think members of the community regard them as very important words. 

 Senator Wheeldon suggested that we could take the result of a State election for Georges River in New South Wales as an indication of the people's attitude to this kind of measure. That election was won narrowly by the Australian Labor Parry, but it has been pointed out to me that in that same election the Democratic Labor Party very strongly fought the issue on the question of law and order and, although its vote was not large, it was double what it had been previously. I want to point out that in the Senate election which was held last year the Democratic Labor Party put law and order in the forefront of its policies and received the highest vote that it had ever received in its history. My Party is never afraid to fight an election upon the question of law and order and I challenge the Australian Labor Party to defend in an election the kind of action by demonstrators that has resulted in this kind of legislation being introduced. 
That is a typical remark from the mountebank of the Senate. In his policy speech  Senator Gair  put the issues strongly. He said the big issues were those of responsibility in Government, responsibility in Opposition and responsibility in society. He said no-one could escape his parliamentary duty, no institution could avoid its obligation and that those entrusted with public duty must not allow rightful and legitimate authority to be destroyed - otherwise our society will collapse in anarchy. The Democratic Labor Party has put its case on this . question in these words: 
We . . . affirm the right of Australian citizens to demonstrate, provided they obey the law. 
We affirm the right of Australian citizens and organisations to protection of their persons, their property and their civil rights from interference by alleged demonstrators. 
I should like to hear more on that issue from the Opposition. The Democratic Labor Party's case continues: 
We affirm the obligation of Australian governments and other authorities, including universities, to fearlessly deal with unauthorised or illegal demonstrations or actions on the basis that all citizens are equally subject to the law. 
I stress the words 'all citizens'. My Party will support the Bill, but we propose to deal with it from 2 points of view. I have been asked by my Party to demonstrate the need for this legislation.  Senator Byrne  will deal with the specific legal provisions and will examine whether those provisions are adequate or necessary in order to ensure that the law will be observed. On the first question whether it is necessary to  have  legislation such as this, there has been great play on the need for the right  of  assembly. Everybody concedes that, but what is needed today is protection of the rights of those in the community who are not demonstrating against those who are demonstrating. 
Let us consider one case that has been mentioned, the attempt to move into the offices of the Department of Labour and National Service, to lie on the floor and to demonstrate inside those public offices. Citizens have the right to go to government offices on normal business and no demonstrator has the right to interfere with entry to those offices or the use' of those offices by the administrators of the Commonwealth or by people who desire to seek their services. I propose to refer to 2 particular instances in which I was concerned to show what is happening today. Some time ago the Young Labor Organisation in Victoria sought to hold a gathering at the Commonwealth Parliament Offices in Flinders Street. Melbourne, and it was acceded that right. On the night in question persons who were present in order to demonstrate their disapproval of the Democratic Labor Party tore the plaques with the names of myself and  Senator Little  from the doors of our offices and took them away from the building. 
Apparently some young people there had a better attitude than  Senator Mulvihill  has towards what was done. A couple of days later a representative of the Young Labor Organisation came to my office and expressed his deep regret. He' said that the action was unpardonable, that he regretted it and that his organisation was seeing that the signs involved were restored. 
Yes, fair enough, but some people here would be prepared to defend those who took away the plaques. When the apology was tendered I told the young man that in the circumstances I would make no official complaint. However, a couple of weeks later leaders of the demonstrator organisation at the Melbourne University, determined to blood, if that is the term, or to try out the new crop of students who had come from the high schools where they had been trained by the Students for a Democratic Society went to the city and put on a demonstration. In the usual manner they held a meeting with the adult organisers associated with this kind of thing and prepared their plan of operations. The Press received full details so that the television cameras would be set up and the pressmen would be there. This was no sporadic demonstration. 
On that day, having prepared everything, they came to the Commonwealth Parliament Offices. They burst into the offices and the young woman who has the duty of speaking to people who come to visit members there was in a sadly shocked state after the whole event. These people, apparently having a plan of what they were to do, went straight in and straight up the stairs to the first floor, along the passage to my office and burst into my office. I was not present. About  30  of them burst into my office and told my secretary that if she got in the corner and kept out of the way she would not be hurt. 
I shall deal with that. Having ensconced themselves in my office they proceeded to examine my private papers. They used my telephone and they milled up and down.  Senator Wheeldon  thinks that this is funny because he knows that this will never happen to him as he is on their side. Having stayed there for some time they locked the door against the police and attendants who had come forward and eventually they made their way out of my office by climbing some scaffolding outside. The police were waiting for them and they were arrested. They claimed that they had legal advice that they had done nothing wrong. 
They were then charged at the City Court on  3  counts, the first of which was for coming into my office illegally. 
We have just heard from the second mountebank of the Senate, the man who went to Townsville to save the north of Queensland for the 
Labor Party and it has net won a seat in the area since he went there. The 3 charges laid were for wrongly entering my office; assaulting the police; and resisting arrest. Although these men had come into my office without permission, threatened my secretary, examined my private papers  and  taken possession of my office they were discharged. 
If it is covered by the law, why were they found not guilty? My own opinion is - 1 think everybody knows it- that these people have been instructed by well known members of the legal fraternity and university lecturers who are skilled in the law on the actions that can be taken so that they do hot infringe the taw. lt is because these people have had skilled advice that they come to the courts time after time, and what happens? They are almost apologised to for having been brought there. On the occasion I have described the people charged were discharged on the count of coming to my office; they were discharged on the count of assaulting the police; and they were found guilty on the charge of resisting arrest. The penalty was such that if they would be good boys for 6 months nothing would ever happen to them. 
Yes. They were put on a bond to be of good behaviour for 6 months, which means that at the end of 6 months they can take over my office, kick the police in the shins as they did then and they can resist arrest. Yet there are people here who say that that is all right. I say to any young people listening to my speech  -  20 or 30 of them - that if they are opposed to the ALP views on Vietnam, according to what happened in my office and according to the defence being made out by the ALP, they are entitled to enter the office of an ALP member, order his secretary to one side and read his private papers. It seems that they are entitled to do all of those things because, the Opposition members who are now interjecting say that it is all right and nothing should be done legally to stop it from happening. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)  - Order! I ask that the senator be heard in silence. 
It is amazing to me that people will defend demonstrators. When attempts are made to control them, such people will say: 'Look, this is a police state'. Hitler ran a police state. Mao Tsetung is running a police state. Can honourable senators imagine what would happen if a number of students in the Soviet Union, Nazi Germany or Red China entered the office of an administrator or a leader in the Government and performed as these people did? Is anyone here prepared to tell me that they would be discharged on 2 counts, found guilty oh 1 count and let off on a bond to be good boys for 6 months? Honourable senators know, what would happen. They would end up in a concentration camp and they would be there for years. That is a police state. People who talk about a police state in Australia demonstrate to the community their complete lack of responsibility. Any government has to stop such actions. 
I demand that the Government protect the offices of members of Parliament. I demand that the Government take action to see that such acts are not permitted. I have a few words to say to people who tell us: 'We cannot do this. We have to protect the right of assembly.'  Senator Little  and 1 can remember the halycon days of the Victorian Trades Hall in 1945 when demonstrators, pleading the same right to demonstrate, burst into the Trades Hall carrying bludgeons, hammers and staves. They threatened to deal with delegates. They burst into the union offices. Did the Trades Hall authorities say on that occasion: Well, boys will be boys and we must protect their right of assembly. That is O.K.'? T will tell honourable senators what they did. For 6 years on Trades Hall Council meeting nights they closed the balcony of the Trades Hall and stationed uniformed policy on duty because they said it was the duty of the trade union movement to stop demonstrations from getting out of hand. What is the difference between that action and what the Government proposes to do? 
Nowadays  Mr Whitlam  seems to be so often out of touch with other members of his Party, but I was pleased to read his defence of the right of diplomats in Australia to be protected from molestation. I thought it was a good thing and  1  agree with him that irrespective of whether a diplomat comes from Russia or Yugoslavia he ought to be protected. 
But we differ in that I think a diplomat who comes from South Africa ought to be protected but you do not. 
I read with interest in the Press of a call by an ALP member of the other House on his colleagues to join with him "in a cavalcade of cars to the South' African Embassy where they were to sound their horns and create a public nuisance. That concerns diplomats from South Africa.  1  have also read about people waiting in cars outside the South African Embassy. When a diplomat from South Africa leaves the Embassy they follow him in a cavalcade of cars. We station policemen at considerable personal inconvenience night after night to protect the Soviet Embassy. I would like to hear members of the Australian Labor Party equally eloquent in saying that irrespective of whether they agree with the political views of a government, its representatives are entitled to courtesy and in Australia they will get it. 
If you disagree with the Whitlam policy that is your privilege. I would only comment that in your Party if you disagree with his policy you will have plenty of mates. I want now to refer to the case of an ambassador in Brisbane. Apparently at the request of some students he went along to address them. He was not only molested but also ill treated. I think it is time for the community to take a stand on this kind of action. In this connection I was interested to read that the well known cartoonist A1 Capp was invited to Princeton University, where demonstrations are favoured, to take part in a seminar for an honorarium of  $800.  He wrote back and said that his fee was  $3,500,  plus an extra  $1,000  as combat pay to attend that kind of a university. Capp said that Princeton is dedicated to training sub humans. He went on: 
When I believe schools get rid of presidents who do not know how to tame the animals they breed and when they are replaced as they must be by retired brigadier generals, when beasts no longer roam the university campuses but are locked in cages, then and not till then will any sane man accept an invitation from that type of university.. 
I was possibly misled by the lengthy and eloquent remarks of  Senator Wheeldon  when he attacked Vice-President Agnew of the United States of America. 
-I shall simply say again that he said: . 
When I believe schools get rid of presidents who do not know how to tame the animals they breed and when they are replacedas they must be by retired brigadier generals, when beasts no longer roam the university campuses but are locked in cages, then and not till then will any sane man accept an invitation fromthat type of university. 
I have read the article twice. If it has not permeated, that is the honourable senator's fault. This is (he kind of Bill which ought to be examined from the point of view of the big public issues involved. I am surprised at the attitude of some people who launch into a tirade to the effect that Australia is a police state, that we are going to take away the right of assembly and all that kind of nonsense. 
I hope we will take away the right Of people to assemble in places where they have no authority to be, such as the honourable senator's office and my office.  Senator lames  McClelland made a good point when he said that, in some degree, this is a reaction, lt is a reaction to wrongful action and in any community when people act wrongfully the community will protect itself. The old Latin maxim salus populi est suprema lex' still holds good. Therefore I support this Bill. It is a Bill which would never have been introduced if it had not been for the activities of people who claim to have special privileges and the right to defy the law. I would like to hear whether the Australian Labor Party defends the right of people who have no authority to invade the rooms of honourable senators, take possession of them, use the facilities and read private papers. If it defends that kind of action then obviously this law is more necessary than ever, 
 I wish to ask a question which may be answered by either the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. I ask: Under what circumstances was a Russian doctor who, with a companion, sought asylum in Australia recently returned to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics? Were intimidatory tactics used by Soviet diplomatic representatives against the persons who were harbouring him? Was he induced to return by threats that his family would bc dealt with? 
 Senator Murphy  has raised a matter of considerable importance to the educational future of this country. I do not think that anybody can deny that the future of our education is largely bound up with the degree to which we can supply trained teachers. I have often said in this chamber that people have been misled into the belief that the problems of education can be solved by providing more money and building more buildings. That does not solve the problems at all. The first thing that has to be done is to provide a reservoir of trained teachers who ?are capable of undertaking the work which becomes necessary as a result of the increase in the number of educational institutions. The question of. teacher training is causing great stresses and strains in .the Australian community. We have reached the situation in Victoria where disputation between sections of the teachers and the administration of the Education Department has almost disrupted the affairs of the Department. Therefore I think it is appropriate that the suggestion should be made that the Senate should inquire into and determine the degree of responsibility which .we  should exercise in regard to this important matter. 
When the question of supporting this reference to the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts came before the Australian Democratic Labor Party we were unanimous that we should support it. But we have one difficulty. I appeal to  Senator Murphy  to meet our views on this question. The original proposal was that the Committee should submit its report by 3 1st August.  Senator Murphy  realised that there was a shortage of time' and he suggested 30th September. I represent my Party on the Committee. Naturally if I were not available we could substitute somebody else.' But I take a particular interest in this matter and I shall be overseas during the recess. That might not matter. But  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack is another honourable senator who I would say is extremely interested. He will be engaged during the recess on the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. Also  Senator Hannan  is going to represent the Government overseas. He informs me that while he will be available part of the time he is not sure that he will be available for the rest of the time. 
I suggest to  Senator Murphy,  if he could meet us, that he make the date for the Committee to make its report and recommendations the day of meeting of the Senate in February. 
I am glad indeed that  Senator Murphy  will meet us. 
The date is the first meeting of Parliament in February 1972. As  Senator Murphy  has ' agreed to meet us on this matter we cordially support his motion. 
-I wish to make a statement on a matter about which I claim to have been misrepresented. Last Wednesday during the debate on the Public Order (Protection of Persons and Property) Bill  Senator Cavanagh  when discussing illegal demonstrationsstated, on the authority of  Senator Hendrickson,  that I had once participated in an illegal or unlawful demonstration.  Senator Cavanagh  went on to say that at that time  Senator Hendrickson  and  Senator McManus  marched through the streets of Melbourne to protest against the city council by-laws which prohibited the holding of a procession on St Patrick's Day. He continued: 
So it is not only Moratorium campaigners who demonstrate. 
I confess that I did march in the procession. It was51 years ago. I was a school boy in short pants andI marched with my school. It was not an unlawful demonstration. At that time the Irish civil war was raging and tempers in Melbourne were running as hot as they are today in Belfast and Londonderry. When the usual application was made to conduct the procession, the city council refused permission, but in discussions held before the procession the council offered  to  give permission on condition that the Union Jack was carried at the head of the procession. That was agreed to and the procession was held. Therefore, in my short pants I marched with my school in a lawful and legal procession. I think  Senator Willesee  knows that there were certain features of the procession which have gone down in history. I merely thought I would clear the record of that occasion and assure honourable senators that I was not a lawbreaker, even when I was in short pants. 
I have listened with great interest to what  Senator Mulvihill  has had to say. I support what he has said because I have had comparable experience. Some years ago the Government announced that there would be a liberalisation of our immigration policies in regard to non-Europeans. That liberalisation was received with a considerable amount of approval both inside and outside this country. For some years a liberalised policy was operated by the Department of Immigration, but in the last 2 years or so I have noticed a hardening of the attitude of the Department or of the administration, whichever it may be. I have spoken to other members of the Parliament belonging to the Liberal Party, Australian Country Party, my own Party and the Australian Labor Party and have found agreement that there has been a hardening of our immigration policies against Asians and non-Europeans over the last couple of years. I do not think that this has done Australia's reputation in Eastern countries any good. Every week or so a story appears in the newspapers about somebody being driven out of this country. I have had publicity sent to me by friends of mine in Asian countries indicating that such stories are not doing Australia any good. 
I receive, as other members do, long letters from the Department of Immigration. I have a lot of respect for the Department, but lately I have been getting long letters from the Department couched in administrative terms to the effect that this is a rule and that is a rule and the person concerned must go home. There have been times when I have received a different type of letter, when there has been more of a tendency to be liberal and humane than I have noticed in the last couple of years. I will cite an example similar to that given by  Senator Mulvihill.  It concerns a nurse of Chinese origin who came here from Singapore and became most highly qualified. She was here for 7 or 8 years and was well assimilated. A position was available for her in the Preston and Northcote Community Hospital, the administration of which was very anxious to have her services. However, she was informed that she must go back to Singapore because of the policy that Asians should go home and place their services at the disposal of their own countries. She produced letters after she went home, and I forwarded them to the Department, saying that in her case a position commensurate with her qualifications was not available there. I presented the evidence but the Department insisted that she had to go home. 
There is quite a number of such cases. I have recently received a letter from a missionary who has lived for years in Hong Kong. He points out that in a considerable number of categories positions are not available there because educationally a good part of Hong Kong is advanced; in certain accountancy spheres positions are not available. Apparently after these people are sent home from Australia their services may be needed in some areas, but in other areas they are obviously not needed. They are ordered out of the country. Canada, which has a much more liberal policy, may take them, but in other cases they go over the border to Communist China which gets the advantage of their services. 
Some years ago we adopted a reasonably liberalised policy. It was being implemented with humanity and reason, but over the last 2 or 3 years for some reason of which I am not aware, there has been a change and the strict letter of the law is being applied. I believe that that is unnecessary and is gravely damaging Australia's reputation in Asian countries which we would want to be friends of ours. As to the argument that people should go home and serve their countries if there is a shortage in their' particular vocations, I point out that there is a shortage of doctors in country areas in Australia. There is a grave shortage of doctors, is there not? Does our Government propose to ask the Government of the United Kingdom to send home to Australia doctors who qualify over there because their services are required in their own country? Not a bit of it. I simply say once again that we ought to have a good hard look at our immigration policies. If we want to be friendly with Asia, as we say we want to be, our immigration laws ought to be implemented with humanity and reason. We should not continue the unfortunate trend of recent years which I believe is damaging us in the eyes of Asian people. 

 - Mr Deputy President, I seek leave to make a personal explanation in regard to this matter. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - There being no objection, leave is granted. 
1 must thank  Senator Hendrickson  for having informed me prior to making his statement that he intended to make it. He said: 'I want to make an explanation but it will not contain anything vindictive'. 
That is not so. That was the statement made by  Senator Hendrickson.  I merely want to say that as  Senator Hendrickson  is shortly to leave the Senate I have no desire for him and myself to part as bad friends. Therefore I will make no comments on his reference to myself other than to say that his accusation that I took part in an illegal procession is untrue. It was 51 years ago. I was a boy at school. I marched with my school and we were informed before the procession that the Melbourne City Council had agreed that the procession could be held. 
I welcome this clause because I believe that it will provide the Commonwealth; with the means to prevent an offence which threatens the ability of members of Parliament, in their private offices, to conduct their affairs without threat or hindrance. I refer to the events that happened in Melbourne a couple of weeks ago. 
 Yes, and I think it is worth repeating because your Party apparently ignores or condones the events. In my absence a group of 28 to 30 louts, who had been demonstrating in the streets, obviously with premeditation suddenly rushed into the Commonwealth Offices in Melbourne. The young lady whose duty it is to receive people and to inquire about their business was in a sadly shocked state as a result of the attitudes adopted by these people. Obviously they had been advised where my office was located. These 28 or 30 louts rushed up the stairs, rushed directly to my office, rushed into the office and locked the door. They said to my secretary: If you keep out of the way you will not be hurt'. Having done that, they looked at my papers, sat on chairs in the room and used the telephone. When the police finally burst into the room the louts climbed outside and down some scaffolding. When the police attempted to arrest them, they kicked the police. They resisted arrest. This clause will enable that kind of action to be prosecuted as an offence. 
 I regret that  Senator James  McClelland is on the side that he is at the moment because this was not always so. If the office of  a  member of Parliament can be invaded  in  that way and if members of his staff  can be  told  that  5 May 1971 if they keep out of the way they will not be hurt, this is a threat to our parliamentary system. This will mean that threats can be used to deter a parliamentarian from carrying out his duty. Would anyone here say that there is not induced in a young female secretary a feeling of reasonable apprehension when the door of her office is burst open and when 28 or 30 louts threaten her that if she does not keep out of the way she might be hurt? Who would suggest that? T think the attitude adopted by the Australian Labor Party tonight is one of complete hypocrisy. Its members defend this kind of action because they know that the Leftists and the Communists will never do it to them. That is why they defend such action. I do not care whether it is a parliamentarian or an ordinary citizen, he is entitled to defence from this kind of action. What happens when the Government takes action to defend parliamentarians from this kind of action? Members who claim to be part of our democratic system defend such action and laugh at it because they know that it will not happen to them. 
I know they would not. I regard the attitude of the Australian Labor Party tonight as colossal hypocrisy. When the people of Australia hear the attitude of members . of the Labor Party tonight they will have no difficulty in understanding why the Australian Labor Party has been out of office for 21 years. 
If  Senator Wheeldon  desires at any time to debate the circumstances of the attack upon  Dr Cairns  I will be pleased to debate it with him. I merely point out that at the time this incident occurred I issued a statement which appeared in the Press deploring it and stating that it was entirely wrong. I regard to the other matters which have been raised by  Senator Wheeldon. Senator Wheeldon  is attempting to drag a red herring across the trail to conceal the fact that, while beginning by saying that he deplores what happened in the invasion of my office, he then went on to make statements - he has made them earlier - which indicate that he has no objection, that on the contrary he regards the invasion of the office of a parliamentarian and the intimidation of his secretary as perfectly acceptable forms of protest and dissent. There is no other conclusion that anybody can draw from what  Senator Wheeldon  has had to say. 
If he says that he has lost any respect for me, I would reply by saying that I have lost any respect for him since he has risen to his feet and completely repudiated the story that he has been telling in the Committee all night. If he thinks it is an acceptable form of dissent, let him say so, but let him not appear before us and, pretending as he does that he disapproves, do all that be can to ensure that this kind of action can be repeated in the future. I say to  Senator Wheeldon  that there was a time when the Australian Labor Party stood for high principles, but today when it defends the indefensible, when it goes to bat for louts who in the name of dissent actually try to indulge in anarchy, when it shows that if it became the government it would tolerate this kind of thing, it forfeits the respect of every decent citizen, as  Senator Wheeldon  has forfeited that respect tonight. 

 Senator WHEELDON (Western Australia) -  Mr Temporary Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Do not run away. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What are the functions of commercial organisations referred to as merchant banks. 
Do they carry out banking functions; if so, are they subject to any Government or Reserve Bank of Australia controls as are applied to recognised banks. 
Is the statement in The Sunday Australian that merchant banks have brought large sums to Australia from overseas to take profit from Australia's excessively high interest rates correct. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The term 'merchant bank' is used in Australia in relation to various companies undertaking a wide range of financial and commercial activities and it is difficult to define their functions precisely. However, companies termed 'merchant banks' would carry out operations within the following broad categories - arranging and providing short and medium term corporate finance, providing underwriting/sub-underwriting facilities, operating in the market for short term funds and providing commercial bill acceptance/ discount facilities, advising on company mergers, acquisitions and reorganisations, and carrying out portfolio management. 
Some of the functions carried out by 'merchant banks' are also undertaken by authorised banks, but they do not hold authorities to carry on banking business in Australia and are not subject to Reserve Bank controls as applied to authorised banks under the Banking Act 1959- 1967. They are, of course, subject to the requirements of the Companies Acts. Where more than 25 per cent of the equity is owned by overseas interests, the Government's guidelines in respect of borrowings in Australia are applicable. 
No information is available on the amount of funds which may have been brought to Australia by 'merchant banks' nor on the purpose of any such transfers. As far as the level of our interest rates is concerned I would emphasise that the Government believes that these should be determined primarily in the light of domestic economic and financial considerations. The current level of interest rates is an important aspect of the Government's measures to counter the inflationary pressures that exist in Australia today and in this context they are not excessive. There is no firm evidence to suggest that large amounts of overseas capital are at present being attracted to Australia because of interest rate considerations. Nevertheless we cannot of course be entirely oblivious to overseas interest rates and the Government is watching the situation closely. I should point out, however, that as a result of increases in some short-term rates overseas in recent weeks there has been a significant narrowing and in some cases and elimination of the disparity in short-term rates between Australia and overseas. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science upon notice: 
Will the Minister inquire into reports that those responsible for conducting honours tutorial classes in politics at the University of Adelaide have cancelled all tutorials so as to enable students to participate in the Moratorium demonstration in Adelaide on 30th April 1971? 
1 address my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Because in the course of a recent visit overseas 1 found that governments in Europe and in the United States were lowering interest rates considerably as a measure to counter rising prices and to stimulate their flagging economies, will the Treasurer explain to the Parliament why in Australia we persist in excessive interest rates which promote inflation, saddle home builders in particular with heavy burdens of debt, depress the vital building industry and conduce to the coming depression? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe honourable senator's question relates to what has been termed classic fiscal policy, which means the manipulation of interest as part of adjustments to the economy, lt has been raised previously during this session. I can only repeat the answers that 1 have given in the past law weeks. I will refer the question to the Treasurer, but I point out that the movement of the interest rate is connected to the fiscal policy of a country. For example, it would be very dangerous to argue, as the question seems to imply, that because the interest rate is lowered in certain parts of Europe it necessarily follows that this is a good thing for the Australian economy. That is an over simplification and on reflection  Senator McManus  might agree that it would be a terribly dangerous thing to do. 
I could conduct research in the Library and within 10 minutes discover circumstances where the interest rates in certain countries of Europe were being raised because of internal fiscal policy while in other countries in Europe the interest rates were being lowered. It depends on the circumstances of the country concerned and would involve consideration of the balance of exports in relation to internal requirements. For a variety of reasons it is a decision that governments have to take in good faith, acting on the best advice available and on the basis of what is best for a particular country vis-a-vis other countries. However, I think the question should he sent to the Treasurer so that he can give a more detailed reply than question time permits. 
The Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. There is no alternative. If we reject the Bill we deal a serious blow to defence proposals which most members of Parliament believe are necessary. As it is desired to complete consideration of the Bill this evening, it is not possible at this stage to debate the whole question of defence, but other opportunities will arise before the Parliament ends its operations for this year. I am amazed at the number of people who, while saying that they believe in the defence of Australia, insist that there is no danger to Australia. They quote the ex-Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  as having said that there will be no danger for 10 years. But they do not quote his subsequent remarks made prior to the last election in which he gave an entirely different impression. In the kind of world in which we live we need defence. I believe that any political party which goes before the electors and suggests that we do not require adequate defence is manufacturing the circumstances of its defeat. My Party stands for strong defence. We think it is more necessary than ever. We support the Bill. 
I direct a question  to  the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Government aware of the grave situation in the fruit growing areas of the Goulburn Valley, in Victoria, and Griffith and Leeton, in New South Wales, where certain canneries have advised that only an unsatisfactory percentage of this year's crop can be taken tor canning? Following last year's difficult result, does this face many Victorian growers in particular with the prospect of ruin? Is the statement correct that a large New South Wales cannery has closed because the Commonwealth refused finance? Will the Government ask its officers to examine this problem at once and seek ways and means to help the growers? 
Has the Minister representing the Treasurer, noted the statement by  Sir Henry  Bolte, Premier of Victoria, in an Australian Broadcasting Commission telecast last night that the measure which would do more to stimulate our flagging economy than any other measure would be a reduction in interest rates to about 5 per cent? If this is so, why does our bank rate remain at the present inflated level of about 8 per cent? 
Will the AttorneyGeneral elaborate on his earlier statement that the Australian Broadcasting Commission is an independent Commission, not subject to direction by the PostmasterGeneral or the Government? Does not his statement mean that we as parliamentarians waste our time in presenting complaints of misconduct in the Australian Broadcasting Commission to the Postmaster-General or to the Government? As there is therefore no Government control of ABC news and information services what safeguard has the community against the danger that persons conducting such sessions on the ABC may not misuse their positions to slant information or present it unfairly, in accordance with their personal views. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party will support the Bills on education which are now before the Senate. My Party has always been education minded. It has always supported the provision of adequate finance by the Commonwealth to assist education which is under the control of the States. My Party has always stood for adequate Commonwealth finance for all types of schools, whether they are run by the States or are in private hands. It makes no distinction between a child who attends a state school and a child who attends a private school. All parents are taxpayers and the children of all parents should be entitled to equal treatment from funds which are under control of the Government. I am particularly interested in education because before entering politics I was a teacher in government schools for nearly 20 years. I have appreciated the very considerable advances which have taken place in education in my lifetime. Because I have been interested in education 1 have always been an advocate of the provision of adequate finance. 
At this stage I think I should revert to something that 1 said 12 months ago when dealing with a similar Bill. In looking at the immense sums that are called for, sums of the nature of $ 1,400m over the next 5 years, it is necessary for us at times to sit down and ask ourselves: 'Are we getting value?' I think that is a very important point for consideration by the taxpayers at a time of severe economic stress. 
I regret that there appears to be a kind of assumption in the community that we should push for these astronomical sums for education and that more and more academic education is necessary for every young person. A second assumption is that whatever is wrong with education can be cured by making available large sums of money. I have come to the conclusion that both those assumptions are wrong. J believe that not every child benefits or would benefit by having university or other tertiary education. I am quite sure that to cure anything that is wrong in education today we need a good deal more inquiry and less of the assumption that all that is needed is to make available more money. Today we have a very inflationary situation. At present the Government is being called upon to provide huge sums for defence, health and transport - you name it, more money is wanted for it. Obviously, if the Government is to provide astronomical sums for education, something else has to go short. That may be necessary, but I want it proved to me that by expending these huge sums we will get value. I say that as one who believes in education and who has voted for every educational advance proposed during my period as a senator. 
I am not the only one who is asking these questions. They are being asked by people in the academic field. I have noticed that within recent weeks Professor Stewart, the Professor of Chemical Engineering at the University of Newcastle, has had something to say on this subject. He has asked, as have others, whether there is any evidence at all on which to base the assumption that it benefits every child to have formal education until the age of  18  or so. I know that that view is contrary to the view that many people are trying to propagate and as a result of which, I am satisfied, hundreds of young people who are attending universities and advanced colleges are not fitted for them, will not be happy in them and would be much happier in a vocation or in some other form of education.  I  regret to say that today many people are at universities not because they wanted to go there and not because they should have gone there but because the children of neighbours are going there and dad or mum said: 'I have to send my child to university otherwise I wilt be downgraded in the eyes of the neighbours'. I think, we have to have a much closer look at what is happening in education and decide what proportion of students shall go to universities and what proportion of them are entitled to be financed in this way. 
Why do I say that? What are the facts? At present in this country one out of every three persons who begin  a university course never finishes it. Recently at a meeting of a committee with which  1  am associated, and which has to do with a number of tertiary educational institutions, I asked an administrative officer the position. He said that in his view at a number of these institutions 50 per cent of those who enter certain faculties and undertake certain courses will never complete the courses. Therefore  1  would say that when universities come to the Government and say that they require these huge sums of money, we are entitled to say to them: 'Is not a large proportion of that money being' wasted?' If a proportion of the students, ranging from 33 per cent to 50 per cent in some cases, either leave university or fail to complete their degree courses, are we not entitled to say to the universities: 'Something is wrong, and before you ask for more money so that every child, whether fitted or not, can go to university, you should put your houses in order'? I notice that no less a person than  Sir Philip  Baxter, who has wide experience in university education, some time ago asked what the universities were doing to ensure that this appallingly large failure rate did not continue. 
We are told that a considerable number of young people who obtain their degrees are now finding it difficult and in some cases impossible to get a position. I refer particularly to women in the Arts faculties. The same applies also to certain men. Therefore it would appear that the work of universities in giving genuine culture in order to fit people for an adequate future either is not being carried out or is being diverted in the wrong directions. If we are being asked to provide these huge sums - I have always voted for them and I will vote for them on this occasion - 1 feel that I have the right, as other, honourable senators have the right, to say: 'If you ask for this amount, and more in the future, you should put your house in order; show us that the students who are going to universities are not going to fail and that when students go to universities they will be adequately trained for their future life and will not undertake courses which will offer them no future'. 
I believe that one of the reasons why there seems to be an increase in neuroses and mental breakdowns among university students today is that many of them entered a field they should never have entered. Many are being forced by parental pride to go to universities when they do not want to. When they get there they are induced to take courses which in many cases they do not want to take. They take a course because father thinks that it would be nicer for them to do this course than to do that course. The result is that they find the strain of the whole situation is too much for them. 
I think there is a great deal to be said in favour of what is being done abroad. In many countries at present there is a system under which the top 10 per cent, the most brilliant students, automatically go to university. The other 90 per cent were told that they should go into industry, that they should take a job for 2 years, and when they have matured and proved themselves adequate to undertake a university course then they may undertake that course. In some of the largest countries abroad that is the situation today. Those countries realise the difficulties experienced by immature young people who go straight from school to university. These countries insist on the young people spending a 2- year period in industry and in adjusting themselves to the facts of life before they undertake their university courses. 
To those people who say that we can cure all the problems of education by giving more money, I suggest that we look at the situation in the United States of America. Australia spends about 4 per cent of its national income on education. That is more than we spend on defence. If all we needed to do was to build a lot more universities and make it possible for every youngster who wants to go to a university to go there free of charge, the experience of the United States should indicate that that is what we have to do. But while we pay 4 per cent of our national income on education, the United States spends 7 per cent of ils national income on education. I would like honourable senators to consider what we are told about the results in the United States as far as its youth is concerned. There may be factors other than the ones we are told about in relation to what is happening to the youth of the United States, but it would appear that spending more and more money on education and making it easier for people to go to tertiary institutions free of charge has not produced in the United States the kind of community that we would want here. 
I have been to a university and I believe that many of our young Australians have difficulties at university. They fail; they have to get out. They develop neuroses because they go to university too young in life. When I was a teenager the accepted thing with most young people was to study for 2 years in the matriculation class. Over the last 25 or 30 years there has grown up a habit of forcing youngsters to the university after one year matriculating. 
They are at fault. Proud parents say: 'My child is qualified now. He is just the bare age to go to university, and that shows how brilliant he is. Let us send him there at once'. But they do not realise that that child is at a very immature stage. I can only say to parents who may be listening that in my view they would be doing their child a favour by keeping the child at school for an extra year at matriculation level because when he went to the university he would be infinitely more mature and infinitely better equipped to cope with a university education and get the best from it. 
The points that I have made in questioning whether we are getting value are points that a lot of other people have made. I have mentioned  Sir Philip  Baxter. I have mentioned another eminent university professor. Some time ago I heard  Senator Turnbull  raise the point that while huge sums were being demanded for research in our universities, in bts view a lot  of  that research was ill directed and was being used by people who want to get doctorates of philosophy for the purpose of taking jobs that are better paid in other countries. I found that a rather alarming statement and hard to believe, but 1 have since questioned a number of academics, some of them very prominent, and they suggest to me that there is a great deal or truth in it, that a good deal of our research in universities is ill directed, that it does nothing except qualify the particular person doing the research to get a good job in an American, British or some other university. So far as this country is concerned, the research pays off nothing. 
But even so we are getting the situation today - I have seen it mentioned in the Australian Presse - where there are too many Ph.Ds in Australia. We have spent large sums of money on the education of people who have achieved doctorates of philosophy and today they cannot get a job in this country. As I have said, a large number of people in the Faculty of Arts and other faculties find that today they cannot get jobs in this country. This is another indication that there is some ill direction in the field of our university education. lt is time that those who are running the universities sat down and worked out what ought to be done rather than adopting the usual attitude of going to the Commonwealth and saying: 'The solution is to build more universities. Give us more money'. I want to be satisfied that the money that they are getting at present is well spent before we are told that we have to give them astronomically large sums again in the future. 
As one who has always voted and will continue to vote for adequate sums of money for university education, I would like to see a little more authority and discipline exercised from the top in the universities of this country. I think that a lot of the troubles that have occurred in our universities have occurred because of the failure of those at the top to exercise even moderate discipline. I believe that we need at the lop in our universities people not only who are trained academically but also people who are trained in administration. We need people who know how to run institutions such as these. I have read about yahoos bailing up the council of a university, smashing windows, knocking down members of the various faculties and knocking down members of the council, and then these people appear to be treated in some cases as though they have done something admirable. They are featured in the news media and on television, and when the university authorities get down to dealing with them we find that they back and fill and in the result these young people come to the conclusion that they can get away with anything they like. We need, as I said before, a few more administrators in our universities and perhaps a few less academics in positions that really should be reserved for administrators. 
People in the age groups such as are represented in this Senate would sometimes appreciate from the young people at our universities a little gratitude for what has been done for them, instead of attacking those who are older than they are and suggesting that they have legitimate grievances because they do not get everything they want. I went to a university at a time when 40 scholarships to universities were given each year. 1 remember it well because I gol: one of them. Today thousands of scholarships are awarded. When I got my scholarship I did not receive an allowance to keep me. My parents or my own efforts had to look after me. We in our age group can say that we have produced a situation today where these young people, many of whom would never have got to university in our' day, can now go to university, have their fees paid if they obtain a scholarship and can receive a maintenance allowance while they are there. So we have not done too badly by them. I suggest a little more gratitude and a little less moaning and complaining about their alleged grievances would be appreciated by the community in general. 
As I said earlier, my Party believes that in the field of secondary education all children, whether they go to a State school or a private school, should bc treated in the same way. All parents pay taxes; the children of all parents are entitled to a share of those taxes.  Senator Wheeldon  said that his Party has supported the system whereby assistance is given to both types of schools although it did not agree with the system of giving assistance to private schools at the present time. But  Senator Wheeldon  flew a kite. He almost hinted that he thought it would be a good idea to test the present position constitutionally. He said that he thought that if it went before the courts the courts probably would find against the private schools. 
 Senator Wheeldon  says that he is not as optimistic as that. But he flew a kite. Tt seemed to be a strange sort of kite for him to fly when he claims to belong to a party which is in favour, of assistance for private schools. 1 am sorry that he raised that issue. This constitutional question has been raised in this community before and a lot of people have threatened to get legal advice. 1 presume that they have gol legal advice and they have never gone any further. It seems to me that they discovered that the legal advice was in favour of what the Commonwealth is doing at the present time. I conclude by saying that whether there are some people who want to have the position tested and whether there are some people who do not think that it ought to be done in a particular way. there is no doubt about where my Party stands on the issue. The altitude of my Party is that they are all good Australian children irrespective of whether they attend a State school or a private school. Being all good Australian children wc do not draw any distinctions between them. We say that they are all entitled to an equal share of the money raised by taxation and used for educational purposes in this country. 
Priorto the suspension of the silting we were debating an amendment moved by  Senator Wheeldon  to the States Grants (Secondary School Libraries) Bill. The schools included in the Bill are both government and non-government schools.  Senator Wheeldon's  amendment says in effect that the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted to set up an Australian schools commission to examine and determine the needs of students in all kinds of schools and recommend grants which the Commonwealth should make to the States. He. also suggests in his amendment that this commission would have regard to a number of matters, the first of which is the primary obligation of governments to provide and maintain government school systems of the highest standard open to all children. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party is not. prepared to support the amendment. lt believes that the questions of whether these grants should be agreed to and whether there should be a Commonwealth commission for Australian schools should be debated separately. After all there are a large number of schools which have needs in the coming financial period. I presume that if the Senate passes  Senator Wheeldon's  amendment it means that we block those grants for the time being and that we have to wait then until a commission has been set up, has made an exhaustive inquiry and has recommended a new lot of grants. I imagine that this procedure would block grants under this Bill for some considerable time. The Democratic Labor Party considers that the correct procedure for the Australian Labor Party to have adopted in the circumstances would have been to move a motion calling foi the establishment of an Australian schools commission separately from this debate. The Democratic Labor Party is not prepared to hold up grants for school libraries in government and non-government schools and wait until such a commission, which would take a long time to be set up and to investigate these matters, had made decisions. 
The second reason why the Democratic Labor Party would not vote for the amendment is because the amendment refers to the primary obligation of governments to provide and maintain the governmental school systems. Prior to the adjournment when stating his view of the Australian Labor Party policy in order to explain away a suggestion which had been made by a member of his Party in another place.  Mr Beazley, Senator Murphy  made it perfectly clear to me that he felt that governments should look after government schools first and that if there was anything left over the private schools might get something but if there was nothing left over they would get nothing. If I am interpreting his view of his Party's policy wrongly I would be glad if somebody would let me know. If the Senate were to agree to such a principle it is quite easy to see that this could be made a vehicle to deny any aid to non-government schools. All that would need to happen would be for an Australian Labor Party Treasurer to say: T have so much money this year for schools and I think it will all be used on government schools. 1 am very sorry but there will be nothing for the nongovernment schools.' That part of the amendment, although on the surface it looks perfectly innocent, could be an obvious vehicle to deny any assistance to nongovernment schools. 
If 1 am reading too much into it I would like an honourable senator from the Opposition side with authority to say definitely that the Opposition did not have that idea in mind. I thought  Senator Murphy  was very definite that if the Australian Labor Party came to power it would look after government schools first and then the non-government schools would get what was left over. 
I would not like to say that. We have had a statement on Australian Labor Party policy by  Senator Murphy  who has endeavoured to clear up the matter. I have a lot of sympathy for him because he had to clear up the version given by  Mr Beazley.  He put what he said was the Federal policy of the Australian Labor Party but in Victoria the  President  of the Party,  Mr George  Crawford, and the former secretary,  Mr Hartley,  give entirely different interpretations of the policy. Nobody could be more violently opposed to assistance for non-government schools than those 2 gentlemen are and nobody could be more vocal on the subject. If  Senator Murphy  says that his version is the Party's policy naturally we will accept it. I would like him to explain the policy if my interpretation is not correct - that is, that an Australian Labor Party government would give all the money it felt it could to government schools and if there was nothing left over for the private schools they would get nothing. 
If  Senator Wheeldon  said that it represents another point of view and increases my sympathy for  Senator Murphy  who is trying to elucidate the mysterious policies of his Party on this question. For the reasons that we consider we should not hold up the present grants, that if the question of an Australian schools commission is to be raised it should be debated under a separate heading and because we feel that all Australian children should be treated alike, the Democratic Labor Party cannot support the amendment. We do not want to divide our children into 2 sections, those who get preferences and those who do not. Our view is that we should treat them all alike and give them equal preferences. Every parent pays taxes and every parent is entitled to have his children share those taxes. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. In view of statements suggesting that the Government favours more creches and child minding centres, will the Government consider financing home help facilities to assist mothers who for health or other good reasons need help with young families so that the children can be kept in the home? 
1 want briefly to express my surprise at the fact that apparently a number of honourable senators were not aware of what was done when Parliament constituted the Australian Broadcasting Commission as an independent body. What they are complaining about today is a self-inflicted wound. If people are given independence and postwar they will exercise independence and power. That is what has happened with the Australian Broadcasting Commission. We have been told that there is still some parliamentary control of the ABC on the financial side, but I am reminded of the statement by the Postmaster-Genera)  (Sir Alan Hulme)  on 25th May 1970. Some of us were under the false impression that as the Minister he had some control over the ABC. In his statement he said: 
In the estimates of expenditure for 1970-71 the Australian Broadcasting Commission submitted to me proposals for a total net outlay of $52,300,000, a figure that represented an increase of nearly $5m over net expenditure for 1969-70. This would follow increases in the 2 previous years of $4. 5m in 1969-70 and S4.1m in 1968-69. 
These figures speak for themselves: They demonstrate a rapidly rising expenditure of public moneys. 
Almost completely autonomy in programming is granted to the Commission. 
You can say that again: 
However, the Government, which determines the licence fees payable by the public, has  a  responsibility to require that expenditures are not extravagant or wasteful. 
But the ABC showed the PostmasterGeneral, representing this Parliament, where they got off. Later he said: 
Last  Friday  I met the Commissioners of the ABC and discussed with them my views upon the estimates submitted. After my discussion I decided not to persist in my original view that the 1970- 71 Budget . . . should be reduced bv $250,000. 
In other words, as the representative oi Parliament he was told to mind his own business. He reported the substance of the discussions to Cabinet and Cabinet endorsed the decision to do not what the Government wanted but what the ABC told it that it intended to do. The situation, bluntly, is this.: Parliament, has established a commission and has given to it a large sector of independence; so people are not entitled to complain now if that independence is used in ways of which they do not approve. Why would not the leaders of the ABC in that situation tell the Estimates Commitee to mind its own business? After all most of the top officials of the ABC receive higher salaries than the parliamentarians and in the Public Service seniority depends on salary. They arc adopting the attitude that they are senior to the parliamentarians and are giving thom instructions. 
 Senator Brown  would know very well the degree to which bureaucrats will assume authority to themselves if they are given the opportunity. Today we have established in our community a kind of liaison between the so-called intellectual left and certain persons of importance in the ABC, particularly in the programming field. I shall not indulge in wild accusations and accuse them of being engaged in plots or or being wrong about this or that, but I do say that a totally disproportionate number of them move in circles in which only one point of view is acceptable; that is, the leftist liberal point of view. That being so, they cannot imagine that an&gt;' opinion other than that opinion is worth broadcasting and the" give full scope to the leftist liberal opinion. They will only grudgingly, and only if they are forced to do so, give any scope to an opinion other than that. If any person takes action to try to ensure that, when they have given the leftist liberal point of view full scope, the other opinion is put,  with the assistance of their connections in the Press they raise the cry that there is an attempt to interfere with the autonomy of the ABC. 
Have we reached the stage that when we say to the ABC that it should give evenhanded justice to 2 points of view - or more, if they exist - we are to be accused of interfering with the impartiality of that body? No body which, as in the case of the ABC, is maintained by public money, which the public is forced to contribute, Ls entitled to say that a small coterie, most of whom have one particular line of opinion on questions of the day, is entitled to decide who shall be given a monopoly, or near monopoly, in what is to be said on the ABC. They have no such right, and if Parliament tolerates that kind of thing it is unworthy of its trust. I do not object to any opinions being broadcast by the ABC; I do not object to any attacks upon my views or the people who are associated with me. AH that I have ever said is that when we are attacked we should have the right to reply; that, when an opinion is put in one direction, people holding an opinion in the other direction also should have the oportunity to speak. But, I regret to say, for some years this opportunity has not been given. 
Quite a few years ago I listened one night to an Australian Broadcasting Commission programme to which members of my Party and I, as citizens were compulsorily required to contribute financially. The  speaker  was  Mr Ted  Wheelright. who would not be exactly a fan of the Democratic Labor Party. The audience consisted of persons from a branch of the Australian Labor Party and one of them was induced to ask what was obviously a Dorothy Dixer. The question was: ls the existence of a party whose main purpose is denying office to another party a desirable feature of political life? 
In effect he was asked: 'What is you view, Ted?' Ted said: 
This is obviously, without mincing words,  Mr Chairman,  aimed at the DLP. Not only is this a party which is, in the current jargon, a veto party, but it's a party which I regard as a incipient fascist party, which is working on fear and ignorance and religious prejudice to confound Australia and to drag it deep into tht  depths of greater ignorance as it confronts what's happening in the rest of the world. And I can think of nothing worse than for this party to gain greater power and greater sway over the people of Australia who don't think about its future relations with the rest of the world. And to me it's a very, sorry day that the forces of this satanic darkness have triumphed. . . . 
I wrote a courteous letter to the Australian Broadcasting Commission in which I said: I do not object to  Mr Wheelwright  saying that kind of thing at any time. All 1 ask for now that he has said it is to be given permission to reply to it'. I received a tetter from  Mr Darling  saying that he would look into the matter. After a couple of months had elapsed I again wrote to him and asked him whether he had been able to look into it. I did not get any reply. Of course, by that time I had lost my seat in the Parliament. I waited 3 years until I had won back my seat and then made a further inquiry: f did get a reply, after 3i years, from the Australian Broadcasting Commission saying that it was very sorry but it had lost the correspondence at the time and the matter had completely slipped from its memory. But that had not happened. What had happened was that one of the left wing liberals who believe in propagating their own points of view but not the points of view of anybody else decided that, as the Australian Broadcasting Commission was an independent body and nol subject to any control by the Parliament. I should be wiped off. That has happened, unfortunately, on quite a number of occasions over the years. 
Like other members of the Parliament I get letters from members of the public who are unhappy about certain points of view being propagated while others are not. I used to write regularly to the  Chairman  of the Australian Broaden sting Commission about this matter, but 1 do not do it so much lately because I have lost heart. However, every now and again. I drop him a note in which I give him chapter and verse. Do I get a reply from the Commission saying that it has examined the question and agrees or disagrees with me? No. The reply I invariably get from the  Chairman  - I almost think that he does it with a rubber stamp - is: '1 have great confidence in the members of the ABC and I am quite sure they would not do anything wrong'. I have great confidence in most of them, but I have been in the world long enough to know that there are people with political views who, if they get the opportunity to do so. will disseminate them. 
What is the remedy? Apparently there is no remedy. The Postmaster-General has dissociated himself from the activities of the' Commission. He said that he has no power. The ABC says: "Mind your own business as you have no power, even with regard to financial issues'. Why should the public have to continue compulsorily to pay money to this body which can reject financial control, which can broadcast any programme it likes and which, if one protests, can tell one to mind one's own business? Let me express my views about what f regard as the only remedy. There seems to be a kind of strange feeling in the community that' intellectuals - people who have been to universities or similar institutions - are, as it were, above the common herd; that they possess some inherent impartiality; that they are politically sexless; and that they are just the right kind of people to control an institution such as this. I went to a university. Some people might think that I am an intellectual whilst others would not be so complimentary. But let me say this: In my experience intellectuals can be just as prejudiced as other people; in fact, they can be more prejudiced. I have found that the ordinary plug in the community often has a greater bump of fair play in him than the man who has moved in highly intellectual circles. I feel that the Government is making a mistake in appointing academics to be in charge of an institution such as the Australian Broadcasting Commission. What is needed today is not academics but administrators. 1 think the Government has to have a look at putting administrators into the top ranks of this organisation not to tell the people down below what they are to broadcast - I do not care what they broadcast - but to ensure that people who are attacked are given an opportunity to reply and that a point of view contary to the one expressed can be heard. 
I conclude my remarks by saying that I am wasting my time talking here on this subject and so are other honourable senators who talk about it. Why are we wasting our time? Because when on a rare occasion the Postmaster-General had the intestinal fortitude to try and do something about the finances of the ABC he was told to mind his own business. Frankly, that is the situation today. The ABC is controlled by people whose attitude is that they are independent and we have no business questioning what they do. In those circumstances, why waste the time of the Parliament? Let us admit that we have created an organisation over which we have no control and which can do what it likes. Let us face up to the facts. I cannot for the life of me understand why certain members of this Parliament suggest that we should be able to deal with this situation or that situation. I do not see how we can do anything about it. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Prowse)Order!  The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I will be brief. I think it would be wrong if I did not express my concern at the action which has been taken to lower the migrant intake. I have always been a supporter of our immigration programme. Ohe of the post-war successes of Australia has been the immigration system. I am sorry that a powerful union of forces has induced the Government to take the measures that it has taken. There have always been people in this country who have been opposed to immigration. In the course of a reasonably long life I can remember - it is about as far back" as 1 can remember - people who have said that they did not want migrants coming here and taking their jobs. I can remember that in about 1938 a British industrial mission came to Australia led. if my memory serves me correctly, by  Sir George  Clark. When he was leaving to go back to England immigration was a hot issue. Many people were opposed to migrants coming here. 

 Sir George Clark was asked whether Australia would be able to provide employment for migrants if they came here.  His  reply was: 'You will not need to. They will employ you.' That view may have been a little exaggerated, but since 1945 many migrants who came to this country showed sufficient enterprise and ability to establish flourishing businesses which did a great deal of good for the Australian economy and provided employment for a great number of Australians. 
Yes. I know that at present, when there is a tendency for unemployment to increase, there are people who will say that we should nol be bringing people here while there appears to be an increase in unemployment, lt is understandable that they should say that, but to a degree that is an acceptance of a defeatist attitude. In my view we should be saying to the Government that it should be doing the things which are necessary to get our economy moving rather than doing' things which will take us back to the old days of the depression. Some people say that we should cut down on migration for a while and then look at the situation. Many of them are trade unionists. 
I can remember Albert Monk, who was probably the most respected figure in trade unionism over the last 20 years, about 10 years ago at a conference on immigration, when the move to reduce the number of migrants was just as powerful as it has been in recent months, saying straight out: You cannot turn off and turn on immigration like a tap'. I hope that will be the motto to which some of our people will have regard in the future. I believe that migrants have created employment. I believe also that they have enabled to be established and to prosper a great number of industries which otherwise could not have prospered. Above all, our immigration programme has given to people who came from countries where they did not have a place in the sun an opportunity to have a place in the sun. Let us not be. selfish'. We have a big country: there is plenty of room here. I hope that we will not be selfish in our attitude towards other people who, after all, want only one thing - a place in the sun. 1 have felt over perhaps the last 3 or 4 years that here has been a tendency against Asian migration to Australia. As honourable senators are aware, it has always been a sticky problem. About 7 or 8 years ago the Government adopted much more liberal attitudes, but I have a feeling that in the last 3 or  4  years there has been a tendency against those liberal attitudes. 1 have a great sympathy with the AngloIndians and the Ang'.o-Ceylonese. Many of them are in trouble in their own country where they are regarded, because of their European origin, as being the sort of people who helped the British to keep their country in subjection. They are not popular; their religion is contrary to the religion of most of the other people and, in countries such as India and Ceylon where religion is regarded as being of extreme importance, that does not help them. Life is very difficult for them. Some procedures which were instituted a couple of years ago in regard to these people made it much more difficult for them to come to Australia. I do not think those procedures were necessary. It appeared to me that the object was to centralise in Canberra the administration of immigration procedures in regard to these people. I feel that the system was better when the administration was not centralised in Canberra. However. I may be wrong. I have been told that in recent months there have been endeavours to streamline the system and to improve procedures. I would be very happy if that is so. I believe that we should do what we can for these people. 1 know many of them, and they have been very good citizens. 
T conclude by saying that 7 or 8 years ago we gained the reputation of having begun to go along the path to more liberal attitudes towards Asians. I suppose it can happen that one can go a certain distance andt hen stop to consider what is happening, or there may be other factors that would intervene. I still think that, without interfering with our culture and without interfering too much with the homogeneity of our people, we could be a good deal more generous in regard to Asians. I hope that Australia will be able to be so in the near future. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Mulvihill's)  be agreed to. 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs refers to statements which have been made by 2 of Australia's delegates to the United Nations. The first was a statement by  Senator O'Byrne  that he has held discussions with representatives of Communist China on future relations between Australia and Communist China, and the other was a statement by  Senator Turnbull  that he has arranged with representatives of Communist China for a tour by parliamentarians to be held in the near future. There was the further statement by 

 Senator Turnbull that he understands that it is quite possible that the Australian Government will contribute to the expenses of members concerned - in spite of the state of the economy. In view of the possibility of misconception arising front their being members of the Australian delegation, 1 ask whether either of these gentlemen was negotiating on behalf of the Australian Government. 
I have been in the Senate for 12 years and I do not recall ever having heard such an extraordinary statement as that made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  I have understood always that when the procedures to be adopted in this place were under consideration it was regarded as a matter of ordinary practice and courtesy for all parties to be consulted and given the opportunity of considering their attitude. In this case a most extraordinary procedure is being adopted. I am not allowed to refer to them in detail but floating around the chamber are a large number of amendments of all kinds relating to the Estimates. We have been informed that this procedure will be timesaving but every amendment would take a full-scale debate lasting two or three days. Then we were informed that this method of procedure had been determined apparently at a secret meeting between the Leader of the Government in the Senate, the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  and the Leader of the Opposition. 
 Senator Rae,  a Government supporter, says that he has no knowledge of this arrangement, I certainly had no knowledge of it. It is most extraordinary procedure and if it is persisted with it will achieve the object of a number of members of the Oppostion who desire to wreck this new procedure for dealing with the Estimates. On behalf of the Democratic Labor Party I express the strongest resentment of the fact that an agreement like this can be reached between 2 of the parties while apparently the other party is left out of discussions. The proposal certainly has not been reported at meetings of my Party. 
Sometimes the prospect of the alternative is worse. When my Party meets tomorrow, we will examine this particular question andI hope we will be able to take some further action to demonstrate that on such matters the time hallowed procedure of leaders of all the parties and all members of the parties being acquainted with what is proposed should be adhered to.I do not for one moment appreciate learning that backstairs or hole-in-the-corner arrangements are being made. 

 - Senator Murphy did not moderate his language when expressing his opinion of our attitude. He spoke very strongly and very, definitely in saying what hehad to say.I do not think he should object if I try to speak in like manner. That is the first thing.  Senator Murphy  said that surely the Democratic Labor Party is equipped to talk about a thing like a fuel authority and all the rest of it. We are equipped to talk about a lot of things but there is such a thing as courtesy. Over the yearsI found that when his predecessor was in office there was one thing he did. If his Party intended to move an amendment, unless it involved a matter of tactics when naturally he was not in a position to do so, it was his practice to inform the leaders of all parties in the Senate of his intentions or what his Party proposed to do. 
I am referring to  Senator McKenna.  He adopted that practice and it was appreciated by the leaders of all parties. In spite of  Senator Murphy's  attitudeI do not think we should do this. He is not entitled to assume that members of other parlies can be called upon to debate questions at a minute's notice. He would not expect his Party to do that. Nor is it a desirable procedure for honourable senators to be called upon to debate questions at a moment's notice. What  Senator Murphy  is saying is simply that all these old fashioned courtesies which used to be observed in this place must now go by the board; people are going to make agreements and arrangements behind the scenes and not tell others, and amendments are going to be sprung on certain people in the Senate and some people will know about them and some will not know. 
If that is the way we are going to play it, all right; but I merely want to say that the Senate would be a much happier place if these ordinary courtesies that used to be observed over the years were restored. 
-I present the fol lowing petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  of the Senate and  the  Honourable Senators in Parliament assembled.  The  petition of the undersigned electors of Victoria respectfully sheweth that: 
It is proposed by commercial interests associated with the Australian theatre to bring to Australia the Red Army Choir of the U.S.S.R. 
This choir isan integral part of the military forces of the Soviet Union which in recent years have undertaken the military occupationof 
Czechoslovakia, and in earlier years that of Hungary, Poland, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Ukrainia and Bulgaria, and created the infamous 'Psychiatric Hospitals' for their own citizens. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take action to: 
Express the abhorrence of the Australian Parliament and people at the proposed tour of Australia by the Red Army Choir and request the Federal Government to declare the choir persona non grata. 
Your petitioners, as in  duty  bound will  ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities. Do the responsibilities of the  MinisterinCharge  of Tourist Activities and his Department extend only to tourism inside Australia or do they include advice, assistance or encouragement for Australians intending to tour abroad? 
J ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. As employed persons are called upon to justify their claims for wage increases before an industrial tribunal, has the Government given consideration to calling upon employer organisations to justify increased prices, or perhaps increases in prices, before a similar type of tribunal? If the Government has not given consideration to the matter will it do so? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Have talks been held in certain European capitals between representatives of Australia and the People's Republic of China on the matter of Australian recognition of China. 
Did Australia retrain from voting on the issue of admittance of the People's Republic of China and the exclusion of the Republic of China at the meeting last week of the International Civil Aviation Organization. 
Are reports claiming the above actions, which circulated in Canberra on 1st December 1971, an example of educated leaks which, in the past, have heralded changes in Government policy. 
 Mr President, Senator Gair  is not able to be present but he asked me to speak on his behalf. He regrets that he cannot be here to distribute Christmas greetings as he did last year but I feel sure that on his behalf I can say that he wishes each of his fellow senators everything they wish him. I desire to thank all those whom the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  has mentioned. We are grateful to our fellow senators, we are grateful to the staff, and we are grateful to everybody who has assisted in the running of the Senate. I congratulate you,  Mr President,  on the successful completion of your first term as  President. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 4.40 p.m. to a day and hour to be fixed by  Mr President. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Will the Government give considerationto the financing of more home help facilities to assist mothers who, for health or other good reasons, need assistance to keep children in the home? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Australian Ambassador to Korea accredited as ambassador to the whole of Korea or only to that portion which is not under Communist rule? Does the Government of South Korea claim that Korea is one country only? Is the Australian Ambassador to West Germany accredited as ambassador to Germany or only to that part of Germany not under Communist rule? Does the Government of West Germany claim that Germany is one country only? 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. Did the Minister for Labour and National Service state in his speech to an employers' organisation last week that the applications of the unions seeking to de-register to join the much publicised amalgamation were lodged with the Registrar on 7th January? If so, was the Minister the victim of wrong advice? Were the applications lodged on 22nd December? Was the contrary advice on the date given to the Minister because the union's case would have been adversely affected if  fines  had not been paid on 22nd December when the unions lodged their applications. 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: 1. Did the Industrial Registrar of the Arbitration. Court on 16th March refuse financial assistance, under the terms of legislation passed by the Chifley Government, to 2 rank and file unionists who have taken action to oppose the amalgamation of the Amalgamated Engineering Union, the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society of Australia and the Sheet Metal Workers Union? 2. Is the Registrar empowered to determine whether financial assistance be granted even though the proposed action may call into question his own decision of 10th January supporting the amalgamation? If so, does not this raise an important question of propriety? 3. Has the Registrar determined, as the regulations provide, that there are not responsible grounds for the proceedings and that they are not taken in good faith? Does not this contrast with the separate decisions of  Mr Justice  Dunphy and  Mr Justice  Kerr granting orders nisi for these very actions to be heard on 26th April? 
Has the Minister for Health noted that the  Chairman  of the Mental Health Authority in Victoria recently presented to the State Parliament the most scathing report in history pointing to the inadequacy of mental health services and the near bankruptcy which in the near future will cause many private institutions in this field to close their doors? Will the. Minister arrange at the earliest possible date for the Senate to debate the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare on the provision of suitable help for mentally handicapped persons - a report for which, we all know,  Senator Fitzgerald  deserves a lot of credit - because there is grave concern among interested bodies lest this important matter be forgotten? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI have no objection to a debate on the Committee's report. I was largely influential in having the matter referred to an inter-departmental committee for investigation. That was done at my instigation. The matters which relate particularly to Victoria should be directed to the Victorian Minister for Health and I commend that course to the honourable senator if he wishes to do so. 
Finance affects the matter. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONFinance affects everything and everybody. The truth of the matter is that the Commonwealth makes a contribution to the States in relation to patients in mental institutions. It could be argued - I suppose it always will be - that the amount could be greater. That argument is not necessarily peculiar to the health problem. Over the whole perimeter of Commonwealth-State relations a situation exists where it is always said that the Commonwealth, no matter how generous it may be, is not providing enough finance. The matter of the Commonwealth's contributions in this field was raised at the recent Conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers for Health which I attended about a fortnight ago. I suggest that the question be referred to the State authorities through the Victorian Minister for Health. Dealing with the question of a continuing debate on the tremendously important report of the Senate Committee, we can look at that as  a  Senate to see whether provision can be made for a further discussion of it. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party  will support the Bill and will vote against the amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition. We have examined the amendment. We feel that it merely proposes to withdraw the Bill and offers no alternative. If offers nothing which would replace the stimulus to the economy and the business world which undoubtedly will come from the Bill. We feel that the words in the amendment 'unselective in its approach* and no consideration to balanced economic development', do not offer anything constructive. We do not see anything which would induce us to change our attitude in a time such as this, when Opposition parties are complaining about the malaise in the business world. We see no reason why the Opposition should oppose a Bill such as this which, it is generally agreed by people in the business and manufacturing world, will be a great impetus and a great assistance to those progressive manufacturers who desire to make their businesses efficient and to keep their equipment up to date. 
Admittedly, the reintroduction of the allowance is a rather humiliating reversal of form for the Government. It reminds me of an occasion about 10 years ago when, in similar circumstances, the Government announced that in order to keep the economy on a good business footing it was necessary to increase sales tax on motor cars by a considerable percentage. We had advanced to us by the Treasury the most powerful argument as to why this could and should be done. A few months later, when Cbe damaging effect of that increase, what it would do to the car industry and what it would do to employment, were suddenly realised overnight, without any preparation the Government reversed its stand and removed the increased sales tax on cars. I can well remember one member of the Liberal Party complaining to me with some bitterness that he had been at his Liberal Party branch meeting and had explained at considerable length why it was necessary to increase the sales tax on motor cars. He loyally backed, everything that the Government had done on that issue. When he had finished and when questions were asked for, the first question was: 'If it is so good why did  Sir Robert  Menzies announce on the air at 7 p.m. that it is to be cut out?' The Treasury or the Government made a mistake. 1 suppose we all make mistakes. The Government is now reversing the process in relation to the investment allowance. 
The regrettable thing is that this kind of assistance cannot be turned on and off like a tap. I hope that if anything along these lines is being considered in the years to come, the Government will give consideration to the fact that there always will be business firms which, in planning reequipment, plan to pay for that equipment over a period of years and to phase it in over a period of years. While some consideration was given in the Bill to that fact, I doubt whether enough consideration was given to it. Once a government starts fiddling around with something like a development allowance or an. investment allowance it leads to a state of uncertainty in industry which is bad for everybody. Therefore I hope that in future the Government, if it proposes to examine this kind of allowance again, will give consideration to the long term possibilities. I believe that if it does so we probably will not be placed in the situation that we are in now of reversing our processes. 
The removal of the investment allowance caused great consternation in the business world. I, like other members, was approached by representatives of business and manufacturing organisations who pointed out the serioussness of what was proposed and what it might do to the business world. One thing I said to many of them  -  I repeat it - was that to a degree it is the fault of the business and the manufacturing community that this kind of action is taken because, in my belief, the business and manufacturing community has failed to contribute its quota of experienced people to the Parliament and to the Cabinet. When we received our new handbook recently I listed the occupations of members of the Cabinet. It was interesting to find that 16 of the 27 came from the legal fraternity or from the rural community. When one looked in the list of the Cabinet for people who belonged to the business community, who had experience in manufacturing or- in administering large organisations, one found that one would be lucky to find perhaps two people who could claim to have had that experience. 
I believe that a parliament and a cabinet to a degree should be a cross-section of the community. I believe, therefore, that the Parliament and the Government suffer from the fact that the business community has not contributed its quota in those sectors. I had the amazing experience of one organisation of manufacturers saying to me: 'Just before this happened there Was only one man in the Cabinet whom we felt we could approach with confidence on matters of concern to the manufacturing industry and, in particular, in regard to tariffs - only one.' I said: 'Who was that?' I received the amazing reply:  'Sir John  McEwen, the Leader of the Country Party.' I asked whether they were serious and they assure rae that' that was the position. I said: 'To a degree it is your own fault. If you people in the business and manufacturing fields feel that you are not represented in the Government, that there are not the people in the Parliament to- put your case, why not set to work and choose from your own ranks people of experience and ability who have a liking for a political career?' 
Yes. I said: 'Why do you not persuade these young men to put themselves at the service of their country?' The answer I received - honourable senators can probably anticipate what it was - was that it is not possible to get a young executive of ability and drive, the sort of man who ought to be in the Government of this country, to stand for parliament because the salary is such that he would not be able to afford to live and to educate a family on what he would receive as a member of parliament. That is the whole crux of the situation. When members of the business and manufacturing community complain to me, as they frequently do, that they cannot get their case put, that they are unable to have adequate consideration given to their views, my answer to them is that perhaps the community is getting value. I say straight out that I believe that the business and manufacturing community have let the side down by not playing their part in the legislative and representative sphere. I believe that they have been too concerned with their own industries and too concerned to retain the best men from their own organisations. They have neglected completely their obligation to provide their quota, the same as other organisations in the community. The trade union movement offers its people. Law obviously offers plenty of people, as also does the rural sector of the economy when we find something like 8 out of 27 are from the legal field and another 8 are from rural communities. 
No, but it might. I saw the other day that a prominent legal gentleman, who has been selected by the 
Australian Labor Party as a candidate, said that he was making a very real sacrifice in standing for Parliament because as a law? yer he would make the equivalent of the parliamentary salary between Christmas and Easter. The situation is, therefore, that in present salary circumstances Parliament is being deprived of the services of a large number of men of ability who are unable to accept a position here simply because they feel that they could not live on the salary and because the financial opportunities outside parliament are much better. 
There have been suggestions of late that the bureaucracy - officialdom - is taking over in our governmental sphere. The salary of a member of parliament is about the same as, or possibly lower than, that of the lowest member of the Second Division in the Public Service. In 'the Civil Service, salary determines seniority. Why should the bureaucrat take any notice of us when, in the eyes of the Government, we are inferior? I believe that one of the reasons for the failures of this Government is that it has lacked the proportion that it should have of people with business and administrative experience in big organisations. When a government lacks the necessary admixture of that type of person the tendency is for the bureaucrat to take over and to make decisions as a bureaucrat, rather than for the decisions to be made by a person who has to answer to the rest of the community. 1 agree with this legislation. Although the Government has reversed its former decision, I think it has been very wise to make this decision. I believe that this will be a good thing for the business community. In my. view it will help the Australian manufacturer who often has to compete with well-heeled organisations from outside. In that respect I believe this will be a good thing and that it will provide extra employment for the Australian worker. But I say again to the business community and the manufacturing community: If you expect to have your interests reasonably regarded, it is necessary for you to provide a quota from your area for the Parliament, rather than think, perhaps, that because you make a donation at election time your interests will be safeguarded. 
 Sitting suspended from 5.43 to 8 p.m. 
Will the AttorneyGeneral supply a list of persons who have been assisted financially over the last 5 years in arbitration court actions after application to the Registrar, and also the names of the trade unions concerned? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs noted that following official visits by them to Communist China the following Heads of State were removed from office by their countries: U Nu of Burma, Voroshilov of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Nkrumah of Ghana, Sukarno of Indonesia, Amin of Uganda, Sihanouk of 
Cambodia and Yahya Khan of Pakistan? In these circumstances will the Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  reconsider his expressed wish to visit Peking? 
My remarks will be very brief; but, as the matter of our relationships with China has been related to the subject of wheat, I feel that I should say a few words on this very important matter. It has been freely said in our community, particularly in farming circles, that we will be able to sell large quantities of wheat to Communist China provided we take action which some people call 'recognition' and for which others use the nicer phrase of 'normalising relations'. I point out that it is illusory to think that wc will get back to the situation in the early 1960s when we performed wonders by increasing our wheat acreages and then found ourselves with a tremendous problem in disposing of the wheat that was being grown. 
In those days we were able to sell huge quantities of wheat to Communist China because one of our biggest potential competitors was not in the field. In those days the United States had huge surpluses, was restricting production and on ideological grounds was refusing to sell wheat to Communist China. Therefore we were in the position that probably our biggest potential competitor was out of the way. 1 can remember statements appearing in the Press in the middle of 1960s to the effect that in the United States there were certain pressures to get rid of its wheat surplus by throwing wheat on the market and making it available to Communist China, if necessary. 1 read in the Press that, as one would e.xpect, strong representations were made by  Sir John  Mc Ewen to the United States Government not to do that on the ground that if it did that it would gravely interfere with the sales which the Australian Government felt had to be made in view of the huge increase in our wheat acreages. We have to face the situation that if we recognise Communist China the United States is about to do the same and in those circumstances is a potential competitor. In those circumstances I hope that the Australian farmer, whatever he thinks about Communist China, will not fall for the joke that we only have to perform the 3 ceremonial kow-tows in Peking and China will write out a cheque for millions of dollars for our wheat. 
I believe that there is now a much healthier situation in this country as regards sales of our wheat. We have spread our sales. We have established markets all over the world. 1 am glad that the Australian Wheat Board has shown that that can be clone. Whilst the position is not perfect by any means, it must have improved because 1 am now receiving from wheat farmers in Victoria representations to the effect that things on the wheat front are so good now that they think quotas should be abolished. If that is the case, it looks as though they think things are not too bad. But, whatever the situation is, just as in the past I strongly criticised the Government because it devoted so much attention to the Chinese market, now I praise the Wheat Board - after all, the Government says, when it suits it, that the Wheat Board is an independent body - and say that the Board is on the right track in trying to sell wheat all over the world. I approve entirely what  Senator Young  said on that point. 

I move: 
At end of motion add -  but the Senate is of opinion that the Commonwealth grants to independent school students should be at least SO per cent of the average cost to the State of a student at a government school whether primary or secondary and this be regarded as a step to eventual equality'. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Health) (4.14)  -  The Government intends to oppose the amendment, but if there is a foreshadowed amendment and if it is suggested that  Senator McManus  may agree to the foreshadowed amendment, I think that the foreshadowed amendment should be canvassed. 
This is the only amendment. The foreshadowed amendment is in relation to the other Bill. 
That is why we moved it in this way. 
My Government will continue to co-operate with the States in measures both direct and indirect to expand and improve education services in government schools. Our policy for the independent schools is that, relying on their own efforts and with assistance from governments, they should be able to continue to provide places at a reasonable standard for that proportion of the school population which in the past has sought education in non-government schools. The action we are now talcing is a further indication of our determination to assist those directly concerned to improve the standards in all types of schools. 
That is a broad statement which is reflected in the very legislation that we have before us this afternoon. I do not believe that this amendment, which is really an addendum, is one that we as a government could accept at this point of time. In essence, to accept it would be to make a commitment before the Government had even looked at the matter, that the grants would be increased to the  50  per cent level. I think that in the nature of things that is unreal. In a sense, it. is inappropriate to the Bill in respect of which it is moved. Therefore, the Government cannot support it. 
 I move: 
At the end of the motion add -  but the Senate is of opinion that the Federal Government's capital grants for education to the States should be extended to non-Government schools.' 
I should indicate to the Senate that this amendment is shorter than the amendment that I said in an earlier debate I proposed to move. This is the only amendment that I move. 
 I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Government aware of the very grave situation caused by over-production in certain fruit growing areas of the Murrumbidgee in New South Wales and the Goulburn River in Victoria? Does it know that a number of growers have uprooted their trees to seek other forms of production and that others contemplate this action? As the farmers are in many cases taking this action because they are financially embarrassed, has the Government given consideration, or will it give consideration, to assisting them in the in-between period to tide them over until the new form of production becomes profitable for them? 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party welcomes the spirit of justice in the allocation of Commonwealth moneys for education which is embodied in these Bills. We commend the Minister for Education and Science,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, on the manner in which he is administering his Department in this respect. In our view, he shows an admirable conception of the need to treat children in this community not as 2 separate groups according to the type of school they attend but rather as young Australians who are all entitled to fair play. We admire  Mr Fraser  for that reason. Whilst therefore we welcome the Bills, we shall attempt to improve them somewhat by 2 amendments that have been circulated. In respect of the first Bill - the States Grants (Independent Schools) Bill - we intend to move the following amendment to the motion 'That the Bill be now read a second time': 
At end of motion add - ', but the Senate is of opinion that the Commonwealth grants to independent school students should be at least 50 per cent of the average cost to the State of a student at a government school whether primary or secondary and this be regarded as a step to eventual equality. 
In respect of the second Bill - the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill - we intend to move the following amendment to the motion 'That the Bill be now read a second time': 
At end of motion add - ', but the Senate is of opinion that the Federal Government's capital grants to States should be extended to nongovernment schools according to priorities based on genuine needs'. 
In order to clear the decks let me indicate what we propose to do in regard to the amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition. It has 3 clauses. The first clause refers to the establishment of an Australian schools commission. We shall oppose that. But we see merit in the second and third clauses. So, if it is possible for them to be put separately, we shall vote for those 2 clauses. I have advised the Opposition Whip.  Senator OByrne,  of our intentions in that regard. 
It is only natural that as these Bills relate, to a degree, to both sections of our dual system of education a good deal of this debate is centring around the general and much debated question of aid to independent schools. This is a question which has had a chequered career over the years. I can recall a time prior to the advent of the Democratic Labor Party when little or no opportunity would have been given for this question to be debated in any Australian Parliament. Apparently in those days there was a lack of trust among political leaders in the fair mindedness of the Australian community. I can remember times when the question of assistance - I prefer to call it justice - to independent schools was brought up. I can recall repeated warnings that it was a matter to be put under the carpet, that it would give rise to sectarian brawling, that it was unwise to advocate it and, worst of all, in the eyes of political leaders, that it might lead to loss of votes. The advent of the Democratic Labor Party on the political scene changed that ou-look. 
For the first time there was a Party that was prepared to go before the people and make aid to independent schools a political issue. Apparently it was soon felt in the ranks of the Government parties that there was a case for it. As a result we had the first break through when, in the period of  Sir Robert  Menzies and the Treasurership of  Sir Arthur  Fadden, who I know had a great deal to do with it, the first moves were made to give some assistance, small though it was, to independent schools in Commonwealth territories. Further assistance followed. The interesting thing is that the reaction of overwhelming sectarian bitterness that we were promised did not eventuate. There has been some opposition, particularly in the Victorian branch of the Australian Labor Party, an opposition which  Mr Whitlam  has attempted to dampen down, but which is there just as strong as ever it was. 1 am prepared to say that in my State the Victorian branch of the Australian Labor Party is as completely and totally opposed to any form of justice for independent schools as ever it was. As examples I refer to its present  president, Mr Crawford,  and I mention also its former secretary,  Mr Hartley,  who is. a member of the Federal body of the Australian Labor Party. The main reaction has been from the Defence of Government Schools organisation which calls itself the DOGS organisation - I make no comment on the appropriateness or otherwise of that title. So far as the general body of the community is concerned, gall up polls have shown that the great bulk of the Australian people are fairminded enough to endorse the principle that independent schools should obtain justice. Even parliamentarians and economists who are not entirely in favour of it as a principle have recognised that economically it is necessary for the state because, as they have seen, unless justice and assistance are given to the independent schools to keep them in being, governments would be in the position of having to pay the full cost of students who attend the independent schools instead of, as at present, only a portion of the cost. 
If governments were forced to find the thousands of teachers and the thousands of dollars that would be needed if the children in the independent schools were forced into the government schools there would be little hope of any advancement for the government schools in Australia for SO years to come. However, thanks to the pioneering of the Democratic Labor Party, thanks to the decision made by the Government parties to follow in the same strain and thanks to the final agreement of the Australian Labor Party - but only with considerable blood, sweat and tears - to recognise the electoral significance of this question, we reached a stage some time ago when it could be claimed and it was claimed that all parties were in favour of justice or aid for independent schools. The only difference was as to how much should be given and in what way it should --be given. 

 Mr Whitlam, in his anxiety to cross over to the other side, like John Bunyan, has endeavoured to give the impression that his Party is solidly for the principle of aid, that being the common term which has been used. However, I am afraid that those people who study this question will say to themselves that whilst  Mr Whitlam  in a Labor government might be the titular leader, the trend of events in the Australian' Labor Party for the last 15 years has been such as to indicate that the real leadership in a Labor government would not rest with him but with the Federal Executive and the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party. Knowing the composition of those 2 bodies by virtue of my own considerable previous experience in those spheres, I have no hesitation in saying that the bodies that will give the orders - the Federal Conference and the Federal Executive of the ALP - are as firmly opposed to aid for independent schools as ever they were. They have merely dampened down their opposition temporarily for electoral reasons. 
In order to some degree to reconcile the conflicting points of view in the Australian Labor Party between what might be called the 'hard liners', who still say that they are against independent schools, and the more opportunistically inclined, who say that they have to put up a show of being in favour of them, even if they do not mean it, the Australian Labor Party has evolved a gimmick. Its gimmick is that although it is in favour, of aid for schools, it thinks the aid should be handed over in accordance with the formula which it says is based on the needs of particular schools. 
We have heard it said with great eloquence that there is a vast gap between the situation of some schools and others. It has been asserted that it is wrong, therefore, to give students in schools, whatever the type, the same per capita grant. Therefore the Australian Labor Party suggests that we should set up what it refers to as an Australian commission which will go through the independent schools with a fine-tooth comb, work out a system of priorities and make an assessment of wealth and, having done that, see that those who need it most receive most. The Australian Labor Party, while opposing means tests in a vast variety of other fields, insists that it favours a means test in the field of education. Some people may find that attractive on the surface. The difficulty for some time in assessing that proposal was to know exactly how it would work out, but we have been fortunate that in one State which has a Labor government it has been put into effect. I should like to quote the words of the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  in August 1971 when he said: 
There has been some criticism of the needs concept of the ALP educational policy of Commonwealth assistance for schools. 
He went on to say: 
South Australia has provided on the Slate level a model of how the needs policy would work on the Federal level and in March this year a committee in South Australia reported to the Minister of Education on the distribution of $250,000. 
I interjected with the American expression: Big deal. He mentions $250,000 in additional aid for primary schools, but there would be well over 100 of those. If South Australia is the yardstick - if it is the example of how this commission will work - I hope that the Australian people never give the Australian Labor Party the opportunity to put this system into effect. I have no doubt that if the system, as practised in South Australia under the Dunstan Labor Government, were brought into being in the Commonwealth sphere by a Whitlam government it would destroy the whole principle of justice which has been evolved under the present Government. 1 have not looked at the matter from a biased point of view or from my own point of view. I communicated with leaders of the educational system in the independent schools in South Australia. T asked them whether it was true that this system was as admirable as  Mr Whitlam  suggested. I received replies from them which indicated that in their views it was a travesty of a system. It offered no justice to the independent schools and it had given them an amount of money which could be described only as humiliating while at the same time concentrating the immense volume of money available for education on government schools. I say advisedly that what  Mr Dunstan  did in South Australia was to put over a confidence trick. What he did was to set up a committee and said that it would look after the independent schools. Then he saw to it that the amount of money that it received to operate was such that independent schools were almost completely denied justice. Let me relate some of the criticisms that have been offered to me by the head of an independent secondary school. It is not one of the wealthy ones but what could be described as' an average secondary school in South Australia. Firstly, he said that the committee found it was impossible to assess needs on any regular basis.  His  school was placed in the same class as St Peters College, although it is regarded as one of the elite schools. The fees of his school are many times lower than the fees of St Peters College. But because the committee had to jam the school into some kind of category, it was put in with St Peters College. It was determined that because St Peters College was regarded as a wealthy school, this other school would receive nothing in the same way as St Peters College received nothing. 
Secondly, the sum of $250,000 was made available. In regard to present day costs in Australia, that is almost a laughably humiliating sum. It can be applied only to the parish schools and was available to be spread over some 100 or more schools. In effect, the results were negligible. The schools concerned were overwhelmed by a flood of paper and questionnaires. All kinds of questions were asked and all kinds of answers were demanded. The schools were informed that the questions had to be answered in a certain way because it was proposed to computerise them. Just imagine computerising education. The result was that the committee was unhappy, the schools were unhappy and nobody was satisfied. 
One of the principles on which the committee was told to operate was this: It is well known that there are many schools which have old boys associations and associations of parents which work for the school in a spirit of helpfulness. Because their children attend that school the parents like to help. Some people in Australia resent that. There are people in my State who are campaigning against any proposal that parents pay a small composition fee to assist in paying for sporting and other facilities for the schools. They adopt the attitude that the State should pay for everything. But in Great Britain, the United States of America and other countries, parents regard it as a privilege to help the school that their children attend. Associations of parents and old boys go to considerable trouble to raise money for their schools to provide them with additional facilities such as swimming pools and libraries. Under the proposal of the Dunstan Committee - the Labor Party's commission - it is proposed that if the parents of children at a particular school work hard and provide certain facilities that will be taken as an excuse to give the school nothing and to give the money to schools where the parents say: 'We are not going to give a penny; let the State do that'. 
In other words, it is a proposal to encourage parents to regard the State as being completely in charge of education and its financing and to have absolutely no interest in the school that their children attend. In other cases, schools have entered into debt in order to provide certain facilities. There are schools in South Australia which are considerably in debt because the parents and the people in charge of these schools took the risk of borrowing money to provide certain facilities for the children. 
That is so. What is the position under the Dunstan Labor Committee? Those schools which have gone into debt in order to provide the facilities will be told: 'You have libraries and swimming pools. Therefore, our committees will give the money to the schools where the parents were not prepared to go into debt and were not prepared to take risks in order to improve the quality of education available to their children'. I have been informed that the amount which has been made available for education in secondary schools in South Australia this year is $110,000. That amount is for the whole State. As 1 said before, this could be regarded only, to use the graphic American phrase, as a big deal. I say without any hesitation that what  Mr Dunstan  has done is to put over a shrewd confidence trick. He has established a committee. He can say: 'I have a committee to help the independent schools. What are they growling about?' Then he gives them hardly any money to spend. He imposes a considerable amount of governmental supervision on them. In other words, he destroys the principle of fairness and justice which ought to be the basis of any arrangement in regard to these schools. As I said before,  Mr Whitlam  says that this committee is a model of what he will do if he becomes the Prime Minister. For the sake of the independent school system, if this is what he intends to do I hope he never becomes Prime Minister. 
I want to refer to one or two other matters. There has been a great deal of talk about one independent school having better facilities than others. I taught at State schools. There are plenty of State schools which have, infinitely better facilities than others. I ask honourable senators to go to Victoria, the State I represent, and look at the libraries, swimming pools and rowing sheds available at the Melbourne Boys High School. They are all paid for by the State. Does the State say: 'We will have, a needs commission and we will work out needs. The Melbourne Boys High School will not receive anything because we want to give the money to some school at Fitzroy.' Not on your life. The Government intends to treat all students in government schools alike, whether they attend the high class ones such as University High School and Melbourne Boys School or whether they attend the less privileged ones. There will not be any commission. If the Government is sincere, why does it not propose that it should have this type of commission in the other forms of schools. 
I was referring to a Labor government if it came into power. Having examined the proposal of the Australian Labor Party for a needs commission and having discussed it with a number of people who are closely associated with independent schools throughout Australia, I feel - I say this with conviction- that the Australian Labor Party is not honest in its attitude to aid for independent schools. I believe it is merely putting up a smokescreen for electoral purposes because of its desire to obtain votes in November. I believe that if the Australian Labor Party won an election on this basis action would be taken by the Federal body, which is the boss, to ensure that its own real views of intense antagonism to the independent schools would be put into effect. I have shown how, under the proposed commission, the independent schools could almost be destroyed while the Australian Labor Party was professing, on the face of it, that it really was trying to help them. 
I think there was an indication of this on a committee connected with teacher training of which I was a member. The Australian Labor Party representatives - knowing them I am sure they would not have advocated anything that was not the policy of their Party - came came out strongly in a minority report and opposed any assistance for the training of teachers for independent schools. Anybody who has had any association with education knows that the training of teachers is vital. It affects the whole lifeblood of the independent schools system. If the policy of the Australian Labor Party is as was suggested in the minority report - its representatives on that committee not only opposed anything being given to the independent schools; they went further and advocated a constitutional challenge to the right of the Commonwealth to assist independent schools - I think one is justified in coming to the conclusion that its attitude on this matter is entirely opportunistic and is designed entirely for electoral purposes and that if it ever got power over the independent schools it would use that power to drain off their lifeblood and eventually eliminate them. 1 shall conclude by setting out 6 points of principle on which I oppose entirely this proposition for an independent schools commission which  Mr Whitlam  says is one of the big issues on which he will fight the November election. I welcome the proposal. I would like to fight the election against him on that basis. I hope the Australian Labor Party does not forget about this as it forgot about a lot of contentious items of policy recently at its Federal meeting in Adelaide. Not even a Press conference was held after that meeting, lt appears to me that those who were once faceless men have now become wordless men. 
My criticisms of the proposed commission are these: Firstly, an education needs commission would increase government control over non-government schools and would increase interference in the administration and financial affairs of such schools. Secondly, it would expand bureaucracy without reason. Bureaucratic machinery exists already to redistribute the nation's wealth which is collected in the Taxation Office. What already is done at the collection end, where taxation is scaled according to income, would have to be repeated at the other end, according to this proposed system, when distributing it for education. Thirdly, because of the unreliability of forecasting income from a needs commission, different decisions could be made from year to year and future planning by government schools would be impossible. Fourthly, a needs commission would force the private schools which are a little better off than others to become more and more financially exclusive, as their fees would continue to rise and only wealthier parents could afford to use them. Fifthly, a needs commission would promote class division, even warfare, among non-government school parents. Sixthly, moneys allocated by governments in a lump sum can much more readily be reduced in times of recession than can per capita payments, as each individual elector would watch for a reduction in the allowance for his or her child. 
For those reasons my Party is intensely opposed to any proposal for a commission upon the lines suggested. We can see some merit in it in connection with capital works, as we have shown in the second amendment we have proposed. When you are dealing with buildings and so on it is possible to make some assessment along these lines but we are entirely opposed to attempting to do this when dealing with human beings, children. For those reasons we support the principle upon which the Government bases its per capita grants. We are grateful for the grants. All we would like the Government to do is to consider being a little more generous. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for National Development: Does the Government intend to issue a declaration of Australian sovereignty over the whole continental shelf? Does absence of such a declaration leave in any doubt the rights of companies drilling offshore for oil? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following question without notice: 
Is the Australian Ambassador to Korea accredited as ambassador to the whole of Korea or only to that portion which is not under Communist rule? Does the Government of South Korea claim that Korea is one country only? Is the Australian Ambassador to West Germany accredited as Ambassador to Germany or only to that part of Germany not under Communist rule? Does the Government of West Germany claim that Germany is one country only? 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the Commonwealth Teaching Service Bill, lt will not support the amendment which has been moved on behalf of the Opposition. As 1 understand this Bill, it marks a decision to set up a Commonwealth Teaching Service because of the feeling among certain State authorities that the assistance that they have given over the years should no longer continue and that the Commonwealth should become the employing body of the teachers who serve its schools. I have informed myself of the circumstances under which the Bill comes forward by a certain amount of research and also by an examination of the debates which took place elsewhere. In view of the statements which have been made in the course of the debates and the keen interest which bodies such as the Australian Teachers Federation have taken in this measure 1 have been somewhat surprised that the interest did not extend to any action to inform the Democratic Labor Party of views held by such bodies. Most people are aware that where there is a difference of opinion between the Government and the Opposition the Democratic Labor Party is in a position to influence the ultimate decision very strongly. For that reason it has become the commendable practice of persons who are interested in Bills coming before the Parliament to inform not only the Government and the Opposition but also the Democratic Labor Party of their views. 
Reading the debates I have been struck by the fact that organisations representing teachers have been represented as being particularly concerned over matters con tained in this Bill. I find it hard to believe that that concern could have been as great as has been .stated because I am unable to find any honourable senator in my Party who has been approached in regard to this matter or who has been given any information as to the views of the teachers organisations concerned. 1 do not believe that reputable organisations would have acted through political bias and, as a former teacher with a high regard for my profession. I do not like to think that they acted from ignorance. I do not know why they have acted so. I can only say that my Party regards the statements that the teaching service is very keenly interested in what happens to this Bill with a certain amount of doubt and hesitancy. We feel that if people have views to put forward and feel strongly about them at least they should have gone to the trouble to let us know their views. 
Looking at the Bill anyone such as myself who has worked in a very extensive educational service will be struck by the fact that the new service to be set up is far from being an educational service to the degree of that operating in each of the States. It may well be that one day it will become such a service. But even speakers for the Opposition in another place stress the point that, after all, this is only an enabling Bill, lt is a Bill to set up a skeleton service. In those circumstances 1 cannot go along with some of the suggestions which have been made. In putting before Parliament an enabling Bill which will set up a skeleton service which will be merely an employing authority without the other wide responsibilities which teaching services in the States have at present, I cannot go along with the plea that at this stage we should set up another bureaucracy. While, as a former teacher, I would be in favour - in a service of significant size - of the provision for a commission of 3 members, as one who has become also frightened by the allpervading atmosphere of bureaucracy in this city, I am not prepared to set up a bureaucracy in the infant stages of the Commonwealth Teaching Service. I believe that in view of the limited nature of the duties which the Commissioner will perform and in view of the fact that he will operate only in a very limited field in regard to teachers, for the time being the attitude of the Government that there should be one commissioner is justified. At a future time when the infant service has grown, when it has a significant number of teachers associated with it and when the Commonwealth Teaching Service is able to take over those many other duties which come under a State system, my altitude will be different. But at the moment when we are setting up, as is admitted, the skeleton of a service 1 will not vote for a commission of 3 commissioners because, candidly, I do not know what two of them will do. 
The other points which have been made appeal to me very much. The second paragraph of the Opposition's amendment deals with the heightening or improvement of professional standards of teachers by the establishment of faculties of education. The third paragraph deals with the provision for the recruitment and training of staff, not only for Papua New Guinea but also other Pacific islands if they seek our aid. The fourth paragraph relates to the provision of an advisory council. I agree with all those, bin I notice from the second reading speech of the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  - it has not been denied or negated in any way - that there is already provision in the Bill for paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of the amendment to be complied with. Under those circumstances 1 see no reason for saying that the Bill should contain those paragraphs. 1 have no doubt that in its own good time, when the Service has reached the appropriate stage, specific provision will actually be made for those things. [ believe that the provision in the Bill that those things can be done is quite sufficient. Therefore I see no reason to vole against the Bill on those grounds. 
The final paragraph of the Opposition's amendment deals with provisions of leave for pregnant teachers. In another place the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said categorically that the leave provisions in the Bill for pregnancy are in conformity with the International Labour Organisation recommendation. Therefore it is for the Opposition, if it says that the provisions are not in conformity with that recommendation, to produce evidence to that effect. If the Opposition produces that evidence my attitude will be different. In the present circumstances, when the Minister has made the state ment in the other place and when his statement has been subject to examination and rebuttal - I am unable to find any instance of rebuttal that satisfies me - I feel that I must accept the Minister's point of view until it is proved to be wrong. T know of no attempt to date to prove it to be wrong. If evidence is brought forward, my attitude will change. Until that happens 1 propose to support the Bill. 1 am glad that the Commonwealth is setting up its own Education Service, lt is another stage in the advancement of educational authority in the Commonwealth. 1 think that the fact that it has its own Service and that it does not have to rely upon temporary assistance from outside will eventually produce a more efficient and a more satisfactory teaching service in those areas over which the Commonwealth has control. Therefore my Parly supports the Bill and is unable to support the amendment. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. I refer to 2 alleged student decisions yesterday at the Australian National University, one to declare the University a sanctuary for draft resisters, and the other, to pay legal costs and fines of law breakers from the funds to which all students are compelled to contribute. Is there any authority in the University statutes or the law generally for making the University a sanctuary for law breakers? If not, is not this merely a matter of impertinent bravado? Does Commonwealth law offer a remedy, as Victorian law was recently shown to have, for this impertinent and irresponsible misuse of funds contributed by students, many of whom are opposed to the political views of the law breakers concerned? If student funds are subsidised in any way from Commonwealth grants, will such grants be halted until we are assured that none of the money will be diverted for the illicit purposes mentioned? 
I present the following petition from 13 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
The Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department, Central Administration Board's Policy of recentralising and concentrating certain staffs, under what is called the Area Management Project, to the great detriment of the economies of the towns and related rural areas, and to the detriment of the overall morale, efficiency and independence of the Australian Post Office is against the public interest and should be made the subject of special investigation by the Senate's Social Environment Committee and by the Senate's Finance and Government Operations Standing Committee. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to refer the above matters to the two committees of the Senate referred to, and in the meantime will order that: 
There will be no transfers of persons, areas of authority or operations under the Area Management Project; and, 
No further appointments to positions under Area Managers or above them in the State Administrations or Central Administration of the Australian Post Office until the two committees of the Senate have investigated the matters and reported to the Senate and the Government. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise. Will the Minister note that many responsible citizens fully agree with the opinion expressed by  Mr K.  Beazley, M.P., the Australian Labor Party's spokesman on education, that 'The Little Red Schoolbook' aims to produce violent, cynical, disillusioned slobs at the age of IS and is a mixture of marihuana and militancy? Will the Minister also note that as a teacher of many year's experience I have read the book and regard it as an ideal text book to indoctrinate the kind of student whose violence, political extremism and lack of morality are poisoning university life and promoting the defiance of law and order, which the Government is pledged to uphold? Will action be taken against this publication? 
Does the Minister representing the -Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that election motivated protests by  Mr Whitlam  and other senior Australian Labor Party leaders about the resolution on Vietnam last week by the Victorian Branch of the ALP are entirely illogical? Is not the decision of the Victorian Branch of the ALP endorsing a military victory for North Vietnam merely the logical complement of the propaganda campaign waged by the Australian Labor Party all over Australia in past years - a campaign which can only assist in another way. a Vietcong takeover of South Vietnam? 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party associates itself with the tribute to the late senator and offers its most sincere condolences to his relatives. 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. When a young man who has been called up for national service rejects his obligation, is it the position that a vacancy is merely left unfilled so that another young man who would otherwise not have been called up is called up to take the place of the person who rejects his obligation? If the latter is the case, should not a little of the sympathy be diverted to the man who is called up because another person rejects his call-up? 
 The Democratic Labor Party believes in principle that the motion which has been moved on behalf of the Opposition by  Senator Bishop  is entirely justified. We believe that there has been too much frustration and too much delay in the development of an Australian aircraft industry. Our attitude has been set out in debates upon the subject over several years, particularly by the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party, Sentor Gair. In every policy speech which he has made at election time for quite a few years he has set out the strong view of the Democratic Labor Party that Australia must have its own aircraft industry. We believe that from a defence point of view in particular it is vital. Britian can no longer assist us in our defence as it did to our advantage so many times in the past. The United States, particularly in view of what is happening at present, is a doubtful quantity. Australia, while seeking to retain those desirable alliances which have helped it in the past, faces the situation that realistically it has to be as self sufficient as possible in defence in future. If we base our defence on the prospect of supplies from overseas we have to face the fact that our sea routes may be cut. Britain has vacated the Indian Ocean. The Pacific is no longer safe from the point of view of our communications. One of the most significant things that we must bear in mind is that Soviet and Chinese submarine forces have been exercising for some time in the region of the Solomons, which covers the area across which our communications and defence supplies would have to come if we were not providing the bulk of our defences. 
In those circumstances the Democratic Labor Party has firmly advocated a policy of Australia developing its own aircraft industry. All over the world today it has been demonstrated that there is uncertainty in any country relying upon supplies of weapons from elsewhere. Tank weapons which were freely available from Sweden suddenly became not freely available. While we were relying on the Mirage there was a period when France refused to supply the Mirage to certain countries with whose policies it disagreed. In Italy there has been trouble in regard to the supply of defence parts to certain countries. In those circumstances the DLP says that when a country cannot rely upon getting its aircraft or weapons from overseas *t is that country's duty to try to be as self sufficient as possible. That applies particularly to a country such as Australia which has 12 million people. Self sufficiency involves being able to supply to the highest degree that the country possibly can. We recognise the limitations of costs and the other limitations. Bearing all that in mind we say that ultimately it may be less costly to develop one's own industry than it would be to rely on overseas supplies which may not be freely available. Therefore the Democratic Labor Party has persisted in its altitude that Australia must be self sufficient in regard to aircraft, in the face of repeated sneers from critics and sections of the media which have always attempted to suggest that Australia's own aircraft industry would be too costly and that we cannot expect to be able to operate our own industry. 
Our attitude has been reinforced by the views expressed by  Senator Bishop  about the people who are at present in the industry. Many are people who have given a large part of their lives to the Australian aircraft industry. Many are people who were attracted from other countries by the promise that Australia was developing its own aircraft industry and that there would be a career for them in that industry. Yet it must be admitted - I say this because I have had contact with these people and they have said it to me - that the people who have commited themselves to the development of an Australian aircraft industry and who have believed that Australia intended to offer them the opportunity of a career in that industry today are uncertain of the future and are contemplating leaving the industry permanently, as  Senator Bishop  said. They are people with special skills. If they go they will be very hard to replace. 1 believe that Australia will be very badly served if we permit all these delays and all this frustration in regard to the development of an Australian industry to drive out of the field people who will be essentia] particularly if the time comes when Australia is at war and is faced wilh the necessity perhaps of building aircraft but at the very least of providing maintenance for those aircraft - 'maintenance of the type which can be given only by highly skilled personnel. 
What is disturbing these people at present is the uncertainty about the future of the industry. Like other people they have been told that a rationalisation is going to take place. But the Government for quite a considerable time has been uncertain as to what form that rationalisation will take. I can understand the Government's position. The future of an aircraft industry is not the kind of thing that one can resolve by the toss of a coin. It is not the kind of thing on which one can make decisions in a moment. The future of an aircraft industry is something which involves very careful study and inquiry; it is something which requires very careful decisions. 
The people engaged in the industry are particularly concerned with the suggestions that private enterprise will take an increasing part in the industry in the future. They want to know whether this means that the Government will hand over to private industry the major control of the aircraft industry of the future. People working in the industry at the moment feel that experience abroad shows that a strong government interest in an aircraft industry is an essential if that industry is to succeed and operate as it should operate. Experience abroad has shown that private industry increasingly is being frozen out of the field and that governments more and more are being called on to exercise a controlling interest in the aircraft industries in country after country. They feel that it would be a bad day for the future of the Australian industry if the Government made a decision which would allow the main control to pass out of its hands. Some people concerned with the industry even have come to the conclusion that to hand the industry over largely to private enterprise would be the first step towards phasing out the Australian aircraft industry. Therefore I believe in the views that are expressed by people who are good Australians, some of whom have told me when I visited them that they were prepared to commit their future careers to this industry. I believe that these people have justifiable doubts. 
I believe that the Government at a very early stage has to indicate to these people what it proposes to do so that they can make a decision as to their future. I had it said to me by one person engaged in the industry that 80 per cent of those who could be classed as top ranking aircraft experts will leave the industry if it passes substantially into private hands. They will do this because they consider that there will be no future for an Australian industry which is substantially in private hands. They feel that the Government would be abrogating its responsibilities if it acted in this way. I say bluntly that it will be a tragedy for the future of any aircraft industry in this country if these people, who are irreplaceable, decide to go into other fields because they feel that their future is not secure in the aircraft industry. What would be the position if a crisis occurred? What would happen if war broke out and it was essential that the services of these people be utilised? I believe that it would be a matter of the utmost difficulty to reassemble these people if such a situation arose. However, if we had a viable Australian aircraft industry these people would be there on the spot and available for action. 
I think that one must pay a tribute to people working in the aircraft industry. I think anyone who has considered the record of the 'Ikara' and 'Turana' missiles and realises the intense interest that has been shown overseas in these weapons can only come to the conclusion that we are very fortunate to have in our aircraft industry men who are capable of developing those weapons. I agree with what has been said about the light aircraft. Surely this project deserves every support from the Australian Government. I realise, as has been said, that the Government has given millions of dollars towards the development of this aircraft. I have taken the trouble to visit the aircraft organisation in Melbourne which is concerned with this project. I feel that the Government is being too slow in making up its mind about this project and as a result is inducing a feeling of frustration in the minds of many of the expert personnel and this could well lead to their leaving the industry. This would have disastrous results to Australia's future. I think that we should be proud of what people in industry have done in regard to missiles. I think we should be proud of what they have done in regard to the light aircraft. 
I suggest that one particular weapon which has been shown to be extremely important these days is the helicoper. I would hope that some opportunities will be given to the Australian aircraft industry to develop an Ausralian helicopter. It has been said to me that if one of the helicopters we have at present breaks down - and there are few enough in Australia - it has either to be discarded or sent to the United States of America to be put back into operation. If this is so I think that such a state of affairs is scandalous. I would think that the manufacture of helicopters would obviously be one field that Australia could enter in order to provide part of a future at any rate for our aircraft industry. 
I hope that I am not being over-critical.  Senator Gair,  the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, has said in every policy speech presented on behalf of my Party that the Democratic Labor Party stands for our own aircraft industry. We realise how costly this can be. We realise that a decision cannot be made in a day and that we have to examine and inquire into the whole matter very carefully. But we have examined this and inquired into it. We have come to the conclusion that whatever the potential disadvantages might be they are f"r outweighed by the obvious advantages that would accrue to this country from the possession of its own aircraft industry. 
Australia by virtue of its bulk and climate is eminently suited to the operation of aircraft. It seems to me an amazing thing that we in Australia cannot yet say to the world that we have an aircraft industry worthy of our future. Therefore, as I have said, I feel that  Senator Bishop's  motion is justified in that it accuses the Government of a certain amount of frustration and delay. I hope that the frustration and delay will be eliminated. I hope that the many good people in the industry who have done so much to put it on a sound basis and who are now wondering whether there is any future for them in the industry will be given the assurances by the Government that are needed to retain their services. If that happens I believe that ultimately it will be good for the people of Australia. 
Could the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and 
National Service explain the much-used term flow-on'? How is it that an increase in salaries for Victorian public servants becomes the basis for a claim for increased salaries by Commonwealth public servants? 
I enter into this debate with a feeling of deep disappointment. This evening I heard the television programme This Day Tonight'. At the beginning of the programme it mentioned that we should all listen to the startling revelations in the Senate. At the end of the segment an announcer said: 'Don't forget. Listen to the Labor boys in action tonight.' 
It was said on This Day Tonight'. There were 2 advertisements for this particular adjournment speech. My word, the Australian Labor Party must have a pull inside the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I came along and expected something worthwhile. But what have we heard? We have heard a statement from that notable newspaper of the Australian Union of Students and the alleged minutes of some meetings supplied by an anonymous pimp or informer who was not prepared to make the allegations in his own name. I feel that if there is anything worse than a pimp or an informer it is a proxy for a pimp or an informer. For that reason I regretted having to listen to what we heard tonight. 
Members of the Liberal Party will speak for their own Party. But I was interested in the reference to the fact that this organisation in some way was tied to the Australian Democratic Labor Party. I am not a member of it.  Senator Gair  is not a member of it.  Senator Byrne  is nol a member of it.  Senator Little  is not a member of it. We have never been members of that organisation. We have never been asked to join it. I am a little bit disappointed in this respect because the list of its members is so impressive that I would have been honoured to be in their company. 
All I can say is that the statement which appears in that newspaper of the Australian Union of Students is typical of the malicious lies in which that organisation indulges and of which I had a personal example within recent weeks. Some weeks ago, on the Michael Willesee show, the  president  of this organisation which claims to represent 148,000 students - of those students, 146,000 would not even know it exists - was permitted to launch an attack on me in which he said that I had taken part in a student campaign against the paying of fines for students at La Trobe University, that I personally organised the campaign and that I addressed a big meeting of 60 students at Yarrabundy Avenue, or somewhere or other, in Drummoyne last February. 
It is a good cause, but I knew nothing about it. I had had nothing to do with the campaign. He said that I had been at Drummoyne in February. I have not been in Sydney since May 12 months. 
I say thank God for that because some of the company there is not very good at times. I communicated by telephone with  Mr Willesee.  I was informed that he would ring mc back. He has not rung me since that time. I wrote to him and pointed out that this statement was an untruth. I asked him for the opportunity to repudiate the statement and asked him what he intended to do. I did not receive a reply. 
I wrote to the Australian Union of Students, this reputable body which has been quoted as the authority for these statements. I wrote to  Mr Newcombe  and pointed out that he had told an untruth. I asked him what he intended to do about it in order to clear what he had said. I have received no reply. I wrote to the Secretary of this highly reputable body and asked him what he intended to do in view of the fact that his  president  had told a malicious lie. I have received no reply. 
I would not believe any statement made by the Australian Union of Students on a bet. It stands convicted of having publicly told a deliberate and malicious lie about a member of this Parliament. When that body was asked to repudiate that state ment, it did not have the guts even to reply to this letter. I listened to what was said here about people being associated with undemocratic bodies and what was said about a Minister. We have somebody who is spoken of as a prospective Minister. He attends certain organisations called moratoriums and he advocates that the, should break the law. On other occasion: he has come before the Parliament in association with people that others would  no  touch with a barge pole. In their company he has advocated again that the law b( broken. 
I have no hesitation in stigmatising whawe have heard tonight as humbug anc hypocrisy of the worst type. I anc confirmed in my opinion by the fact tha: this information obviously has been supplied to the Leader of the Labor Party ir this chamber by an organisation which has been shown within the past month to be an organisation which is prepared to propagate deliberate lies about people. I would never believe anything from the Australian Union of Students on a bet. 
I direct my question to you,  Mr President.  It refers to a circular which I forwarded to you yesterday from an organisation which claimed that it was arranging for demonstrations at this House during the course of the South East Asia Treaty Organisation conference to be held here later in the year. The circular also claimed that if sufficient numbers were present it was proposed to prevent delegates from overseas countries entering the House. I now ask: In view of suggestions that the present powers over the precincts of Parliament are not as adequate as they should be, can you give any information about any proposals to improve the control of this Parliament over its precincts, particularly in view of an incident that happened in the Victorian Parliament within recent weeks? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is there any truth in the statement which I have seen publicised this week that Francis James has not been released by the Red Chinese because the Australian Government will not comply with a demand that an Australian passport be given to the journalist, Wilfred Burchett? 
In the absence of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I regret that I cannot give a comprehensive reply to the question asked by  Senator McManus.  In any event, my feeling is that the question should be placed on notice because the whole history of the case of  Mr Francis  James has been one of speculation. Indeed I think that it might well be that speculation in this context might have a tendency to militate against an ultimate solution of the matter. I shall have the question referred to the Department of Foreign Affairs. If there is an appropriate reply to come to  Senator McManus,  I will see that it comes. 
 I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. My question refers to what appears to be a claim in the other place by the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  that confidential advice on foreign policy tendered to the Minister by officers of his Department had been made available by persons in the Department to members of the Opposition and also to representatives of the media. Will the Minister inquire into this most serious allegation and report to Parliament? 
I have been asked by certain members of the Russian Orthodox community of Melbourne to bring before the Senate the question of a journal called 'Voice of the Homeland' which, as far as can be ascertained, is printed either in Communist East Germany or in some other Sovietdominated country. It is printed in a variety of languages and is posted all over the world to political refugees who have left the Soviet Union or countries under its domination. This is not the first time that the question of this newspaper or journal called 'Voice of the Homeland' has been raised. It has given considerable concern to refugees from Soviet countries who over the years have received copies of this journal for which they have not asked. They are deeply disturbed when, having changed their addresses, they find that persons in that Eastern European country are able to post the journal to their new addresses. They are in no doubt that this indicates the existence in Australia of a Sovietsponsored espionage organisation which keeps tab on the movements and addresses of political refugees from the Soviet Union. 
One of the principal activities or objects of this journal appears to be the intimidation of such refugees. The journal is notable for the fact that it ridicules and smears in particular those refugees who are most prominent for their opposition to communism, and especially those refugees who are associated with the Russian Orthodox Church in this country. There has been a particular example of the type of publicity in which this paper indulges following the visit to Australia last February, under an arrangement by the Soviet Embassy, of Metropolitan Nikodim who represents the Soviet-sponsored Patriarchate in Moscow. The purpose of Metropolitan Nikodim's visit was to set up a branch of the Sovietsponsored Moscow church in opposition to or rivalry with the existing body which opposes communism. But Metropolitan Nikodim left earlier than it had been originally announced that he would leave when he found that his endeavours to divide the Russian Orthodox community had failed. 
One of those who took a strong stand against Metropolitan Nikodim's visit was Bishop Constantine of Brisbane. It is notable that as a result of his firm stand against this attempt to divide the Russian Orthodox community and to set up a breakaway church here, he has been attacked and maligned by 'Voice of the Homeland' ever since. In issue No. 19 of March 1972 this paper which, as I said, is mailed from the Soviet Union or one of its subject countries to Russian refugees throughout the world, devoted considerable space to an attack on Bishop Constantine of Brisbane. It declared that he was negligent in his pastoral duties and that he was not regarded with confidence by members of the church in this country - statements which the briefest examination of the facts would reveal to be complete lies. The article wound up by describing the Russian Orthodox Bishop of Brisbane as a 'fascist 
Jew'. That this paper published under communist or Soviet auspices should describe the Bishop as a fascist Jew is the clearest possible proof that the. denials of the leaders of the Soviet Union that they are anti.semitist are completely untrue. By using that particular epithet they have revealed the truth of the allegations made by Jewish people in this country that there is vicious and vile anti-semitism in the Soviet Union today. 
The Russian Orthodox people in this country bitterly resent that this organ can be posted to Australia to people who have never asked for it and do not want it. It is obviously the inspiration of an espionage organisation existing here for the purpose of keeping tabs on the refugees. They desire to express their complete confidence in their bishop and they are indignant that this journal is allowed into this country. I understand that this journal was brought to the notice of the Postmaster-General on a previous occasion, and if I remember correctly the answer was given that the Post Office must comply with certain international obligations that make it very difficult to deal with the matter. However, I hope that the Government will again have the Post Office examine this matter, and if necessary make representations to the Soviet Embassy asking that this particularly despicable type of journalism be not foisted upon Australia. In conclusion I express my sympathy with the Russian Orthodox people and the Jewish people in this country, and I regret that such a paper is permitted to be sent through the mail to people who, as I said before, do not want it. 
Further to the question just addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service by  Senator Cavanagh  I ask the same Minister: Is it not a fact that the legislation under which the rank and file of a trade union can be financially assisted in an endeavour to assert their rights was passed by the Chifley Government in the commendable belief that members of the rank and file of trade unions are entitled to have their ordinary rights in a union preserved? 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the 6 Bills before the chamber. As a member of the Senate Select Committee on the Metric System of Weights and Measures I fully endorse what was said by  Senator Poyser  as to the manner in which it was chaired by an old and revered friend of ours, the late  Senator Laught.  I support fully what  Senator Poyser  had to say about the wonderful assistance given to the Committee by its technical adviser,  Mr Alan  Harper. I have no doubt that the smoothness with which the operation of converting to the metric system of weights and measures is now proceeding is to a large degree due to the tremendous ability and organising flair that  Mr Harper  possesses. 
The Committee was told during its inquiry that for every year Australia delayed bringing in a metric system the cost would go up 8 per cent. In those circumstances, it is good to see that the Metric Conversion Board is making such rapid progress while at the same time being careful to ensure that nothing is done which might prejudice the whole conversion. I think that the conversion to the metric system is something which will be for the good of Australia. I think that we can be proud of the way in which it is being carried through. I believe that we must all be grateful that the board which the Government appointed is proving to be most effective in performing a very difficult task. 
The Democratic Labor Party supports the Papua New Guinea Loan (Asian Development Bank) Bill. Obviously the steps of the people of Papua New Guinea towards independence will require development, and for development capital must be available. 1 noticed that the present delegation from the Territory which is visiting Australia is holding talks with our Government about the financial question. 1 hope that those talks will be satisfactorily resolved. 

 Senator Gair and I today had the pleasure of meeting members of the delegation aud discussed the future with them. If those discussions can be taken as an example, Australia should have nothing to fear about the future development of that country. They impressed us with their arguments and statements. They made singular common sense. It was quite obvious that they appreciated the seriousness of the problems before them. It was obvious also that there was no desire on their part to completely cut the painter with Australia. There was a feeling that the future association between Australia and New Guinea would be for the benefit of both sides. There are people in the community who wonder about this aspect. They say, quite rightly, that New Guinea faces very serious problems in the future. I hope that the feeling of pessimism held by some people will not. be justified and I hope that the optimism expressed by others will be shown to be soundly based. I think that among the Australian people generally there is a feeling of good will towards the new nation which will come into being before long. 
Finally, I want to say that 1 do not agree with  Senator Keeffe  that the history of Australia's association with New Guinea has been merely one of merciless exploitation. We may have made some mistakes. Most countries which had colonial territories under their control made mistakes, but my feeling is that even allowing for those mistakes, Australia has nothing to be ashamed of in what it has done to develop that Territory and to bring it to the threshhold of independence. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. It follows the statement in a previous question asked by  Senator McLaren  in which he suggested that opposition to The Little Red Schoolbook' was motivated by bigotry and wowserism. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator McManus,  a request has been made that you withdraw that statement. 
If  Senator McLaren  is prepared to state that he did not say that opposition to 'The Little Red Schoolbook' was motivated by wowserism and bigotry, of course I will withdraw it. But I listened to what he said and my understanding of what he said was very clear. I could draw no other conclusion. If he wants to run away from it now, well, let him. 
Who was it? 
I withdraw it and I will recast my question. My question relates to a statement which was made by an anonymous senator some minutes ago in which he said that opposition to 'The Little Red Schoolbook' was motivated by wowserism and bigotry. My question to the Attorney-General is this: Is that not a remarkable statement by a member of the Australian Labor Party when some of the most forthright opposition to 'The Little Red Schoolbook' has come from the official spokesman on education for the Australian Labor Party? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Referring to the question asked of me earlier about whether 1 would take steps to make the book available, 1 suggested the use of the facilities in the Parliamentary Library. It has been pointed out to me that currently only one copy is available. I will discuss with the Library the question whether more copies can be made available. That clears up that situation. Various objections have been raised to the question being asked by  Senator McManus.  I have considered the last point of order and at present I cannot rule that  Senator McManus  is out of order. 
I will continue with my question, which is directed to the Attorney-General. Will he arrange for honourable senators to be supplied with copies of the very forthright statements condemning The Little Red Schoolbook' which have been made by  Mr Beazley,  the official spokesman on education for the Australian Labor Party, and also in the last few days by  Mr Duthie,  who is one of the most respected members of that Party - neither of whom could ever be accused of bigotry or wowserism? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Order! That comment is not in order. 
The Democratic Labor Party has considered this matter. We had determined that we would vote for the proposition as put forward by the Government. We felt that there was a necessity for extra time and we would prefer it to be available at the beginning of the day rather than at ;.he end. However, we have no strong feelings about it. If the Government is prepared to consider  Senator Willesee's  plea, we will go along. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator DrakeBrockman)  adjourned. 
I am very glad that the Senate has been given the opportunity to debate the report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse which inquired into the drug question and of which I was privileged to be a member. I think that in all modesty it could be said that it was a very hard-working committee. I am quite sure that in  Senator John  Marriott we had a most effective  chairman  who co-ordinated our work and acted as a medium between us. the Press and the general public in a way which did credit to him and to the Senate. I feel that a good deal has been achieved already by the. report, which we all know has had a considerable sale not only in Australia but all over the world. This question of drug addiction is arousing considerable concern in every part of the globe. 
I believe that it will be found that one of the achievements of the report will be this: It has transferred the emphasis in regard to drug addiction to the point where the drug addict is regarded as a person who is ill and not as a person who has committed an offence. I believe that that is all to the good. I also believe that the report of the Committee has directed attention to what needs to be done if we are to prevent drug addiction from becoming a serious problem in this country. We were gratified to learn - the evidence to this effect was strong - that in Australia we have not yet a serious drug problem. But when we look at what is happening in other parts of the world we see that we must alert ourselves to the possibility that drug addiction will become a problem. We must do what we can to provide adequate treatment for those in this country who have succumbed and we must take measures to ensure that our young people, who are particularly prone to the risks of this kind of addiction, are adequately informed and protected against the possibility that they will become addicts. With the assistance of experts not only from Australia but also from all over the world, the Committee was able to amass a significant amount of evidence as to the right methods to deal with this problem. 
There were certain aspects which obtained a good deal of attention. I felt that the evil of the taking of drugs to the point of addiction by middle aged people, the extent of which had not been realised before, was spotlighted. Already action has been taken by governments in this country to ensure that certain of those drugs are no longer as freely available in the community as they used to be. Not only have governments taken steps to make such drugs less accessible, but also they have seen to it that information is made available to the public to point out the dangers of becoming addicted to these headache powders, Relaxa-tabs and other powders. I believe that has made a big contribution to making people understand the dangers and making them realise that they have to be careful to avoid those dangers. 1 think that a disproportionate amount of attention has been concentrated on the drug marihuana. The experts who came before the Committee made it clear that there was, as yet, no confirmed medical opinion throughout the world as to the possible long term effects of marihuana addiction. In those circumstances I was one of those on the Committee who felt that until we have adequate evidence of the possible long term effects of marihuana addiction we should maintain the present restrictions. I think also that most if not all, of us were influenced in our attitude by the belief that there was some evidence - not overwhelming evidence, but some evidence - that indulgence in marihuana led to indulgence in other and more dangerous drugs. For that reason, we adopted an attitude of caution. I believe that that attitude is justified. 
As  Senator Wheeldon  pointed out, there are different types of drugs. Some drugs, such as alcohol and tobacco, are socially acceptable. My feeling is that, from the point of view of young people, it is better not to make marihuana easily available to them. I am not one of those who feel that the use of alcohol or tobacco can be prohibited. But I do feci that an immense amount of money is being spent uselessly on those 2 drugs. I see no reason why we should add another drug, the cost of which would spiral as the cost of all these drugs seems to spiral as the public comes to accept them more and more. I remember that in the early days of the Australian Labor Party, leaders of that Party - men in prominent positions - advocated the prohibition not merely of alcohol but also of tobacco on the ground that the worker was wasting on them money which ought to have been spent on his wife and family. A different attitude now prevails. It is felt that these drugs have become socially acceptable and that therefore they cannot be prohibited. 
But I still believe, as I told some of the students who appeared before us. that there is no reason why when they are spending so much money already on alcohol and tobacco they should spend money on something else which most of them admitted could never in any circumstances be regarded as a necessity. I think that the danger in adopting a more permissive attitude in regard to drug addiction can be seen from what has happened in the United States of America, where there has been a more permissive attitude. I was interested to read an article by  Dr Margaret  Wallner, a qualified medical practitioner who is attached to the university health service of the Australian 
National University and who has just visited the United States. In the course of a very interesting article which appeared in the Canberra 'Times' she pointed out that at a narcotics round table conference she had met a group of responsible and articulate students from one of the best known high schools. She was amazed to find that every one of those students admitted that at some time or other, and even then, he or she had taken drugs. Most of them said that they felt that they had taken them perhaps for some years. A number had found that they could give them up. Others were still indulging. 
A rather remarkable factor that we found in our considerations of the Australian evidence - it was pointed out fairly strongly to us - was that a considerable number of young students who indulged in drug taking found, when they reached what we might refer to as a more responsible age, in the twenties, and perhaps because of intentions to marry or because of family responsibilities, were able in most cases to give up the drug taking without, as far as they could see, any serious effects. But there is always a small number of people, as they themselves admitted, who are not able to give up the particular drug and who graduate to other drugs. They form part of the problem. The matter that impressed me in  Dr Wallner's  article was that in the United States while these older people said that they felt that they could take the drugs and leave them, the tendency was that the age at which young people experimented in drugs was falling to the degree that now - I quote her words - 'large numbers of children under 10 are being noticed in drug treatment facilities'. The drugs which they had been taking were marihuana, barbiturates and a number of other drugs which, she was told, the children had said they got from the bathrooms in their homes. 
It is serious that young children aged 10 and under are experimenting with drugs. That makes it more important that in the community steps should be taken to guard and warn young people against the evil possibilities of drug taking. For that reason I am indebted to  Mr Beazley,  the Australian Labor Party spokesman on education, for his article on the dangers of 'The 
Little Red Schoolbook'. In his article he pointed out that in the book the use of marihuana is excused. In fact it is stated to children that there is nothing very wrong with taking marihuana and that it probably will not do them much harm. But 'The Little Red Schoolbook', according to  Mr Beazley,  also states: 
LSD is dangerous but the effects of  mescalin  and LSD (or acid) vary enormously from person to person. There are cases of people who have taken LSD regularly over long periods without any bad effects. 
In view of the evidence that we had from medical men on what LSD can do to people, I think it is criminal that in our community there should be permitted a book which tells young children, who are not equipped to make their own decisions on these matters, that it is possible to take LSD regularly over long periods without any bad effects. If that kind of information is disseminated widely in the community and if it is accepted widely among children, I have no doubt that if we have not a drug problem now we will have one before long. 
There are other problems. Alcohol is undoubtedly the worst. Some people say: If alcohol is the worst, why is it not prohibited? Instead of taking action as is intended in regard to tobacco - warnings, advertising and so on - why not take action in regard to other things?' Alcohol has become socially acceptable. While many people say that they take it for social purposes without ill effects, governments will always be loath to take action. I think I should mention another factor which has been brought to notice by  Dr Wallner  in her article headed 'Drugs and VD: twin perils of youth*. One of the dangers of 'The Little Red Schoolbook' is that it advocates or tolerates a permissive attitude in regard to promiscuity. It tells children that they may indulge in promiscuity and not let their parents know. It then suggests to the children that if they do that, they can avoid any of the consequences. Of course, they avoid any of the consequences by use of the contraceptive pill. I point out that in that book the statement is made that venereal disease, or social disease, can be irritating but it is not serious and it can be cured. I think it is criminal to tell young people that kind of thing. 

 Mr Beazley made a very strong point about the seriousness of telling young people that they can avoid the consequences of promiscuity because of the pill. He spoke the truth when he said that there are strains of such disease which resist antibiotics and that that is not mentioned in 'The Little Red Schoolbook'. The fact that the children concerned might infect others is not mentioned either. To show the seriousness of this matter let me return to the article by  Dr Wallner,  who is attached to the university health service at the Australian National University. She said that the nurse at the junior high school nearest to where she was staying informed her that she was besieged with the problem of this social disease and that conservatively one-quarter of the ninth grade, aged IS and under, had the disease and had to be treated. She was informed that the Student Health Service at the California University which sees 500 students a day now treats as many students with that disease as it treats for the common cold. I do not think that it is too much to say that one of the main causes of the spread of that form of disease, which medically can cause blindness, heart trouble, sterility and insanity, is that young people have been led to believe that promiscuity is without danger because a particular form of drug is now available to them. When young children arc told it in 'The Little Red Schoolbook', I make no apology for saying that to condemn the availability of that book to young people is not bigotry or wowserism,; it is simply plain commonsense. 1 believe that the drug problem in Australia is not a serious one, but it is one which can become serious. All kinds of people say that if action is taken in regard to drugs and other social problems personal liberty is being interfered with. I have always been of the opinion that a great deal of the publicity in favour of permissiveness comes from people who do not care as long as they can make a quid out of it. It is the rattle of the cash register that they are interested in, not matters of personal liberty or the right of the individual to do his particular thing. Therefore I believe that the Government must take action to protect our young people and to ensure that they are warned in a sensible way, because they can be warned in the wrong way. 
We must take action to warn young people in a sensible way of the possible consequences of experimenting with drugs and against other forms of licence. If the problem were put before them in the right way - in a rational fashion without scare headlines and without some of the media going to the extremes to which they have gone - I believe the young people of this country would be sensible enough to make the right decision. But, while they are making that decision, it is our duty as members of Parliament not to shrink from the task of taking action against those people who, because they think there is money in it, want to produce books, drugs and other things which could have grave social effects upon our community. It is our duty not to be bemused or scared by the fact that these people often contribute money to funds so that they can buy publicity in the media for the purpose of advocating their particular form of money making. 
I am gratified, as I believe are other members of the Committee which inquired into this mater, by the manner in which the public has shown its interest in what the Committee has had to say. I am gratified by the fact that other countries have felt that Australia could contribute something of worth to the consideration of this problem. I believe that the Government was wise when it acceded to the desire of the Senate to establish a committee to inquire into this very serious problem of drug trafficking and drug abuse. I believe that inquiries of this nature enhance the reputation of the Senate. 1 conclude by saying that I was very proud to be a member of the Committee. I found my colleagues on it to be people with whom it was a pleasure to co-operate in doing something that we felt was for the good of the state. I am grateful to  Senator John  Marriott who, as I said before, was a most effective  Chairman  of the Committee. He did everything for the Committee that could be done. 
The Democratic Labor Party will support the motion moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  Action was taken by the Senate, and rightly so, in the last year or two to ensure that time was set apart for general business and for the consideration of reports presented by standing and select committees. Having done so, and having promoted the interests of rank and file senators, we think it is a fair thing for the interests of the Government to be given consideration in this case. I believe that everything that needs to be said in relation to an urgency motion can be said in 2 hours. The object of an urgency motion is to give notice of a matter which is regarded as being of extreme public importance. I think that what is wanted is achieved when, in the space of 2 hours, the Senate indicates from all sides what it feels in regard to that matter and the matter receives publicity as an urgency motion. We think that 2 hours is quite enough. 
I am fortified in that view by the fact that I have never been bored so much in all my life as I have been by the speeches in the closing stages of the 3 hours allotted for some urgency motions. Everybody knows that on most occasions the Whip is running around trying to get somebody to fill in. I think that consideration also has to be given to the fact that, whereas in the old days in the Senate there was one Opposition party which used the practice of moving urgency motions, now there are 2 parties in opposition which exercise that privilege. Whilst it has been said by  Senator Cavanagh  that that privilege has not been abused or over-used in the last few weeks, there is always the possibility that matters will arise and that this will happen. I have been in the Senate chamber on quite a number of occasions when both the Australian Labor Party and the Australian Democratic Labor Party have placed before the  President  letters in regard to urgency motions. Therefore, we think that what  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson is asking for is only fair. We propose to support it. 

 - Senator Cavanagh has referred in condemnatory terms to the solidity of the 
Democratic Labor Party. I agree with him that on this matter we are solid. We are solid against the motion. 
We assure you that  Senator Cavanagh  nearly spoiled everything. 
No, we would not. In the 13 years that I have been in this Senate I believe that the one-hour limit on speeches on non-broadcasting days has never been abused. I realise, as I have seen it happen on numerous occasions, that on days when the proceedings of the Senate are not being broadcast Whips frequently have a great deal of trouble getting somebody to fill in. Although feeling was a bit strong between the ALP and the DLP when I first entered this chamber, the late Sid O'Flaherty, the Opposition Whip, came to us on more than one occasion to beg us to fill in to keep things going. 
I do not want to suggest that the onehour limit merely resulted in a lot being said which ought not to have been said or which was not worth hearing. I have heard some very boring speeches of one hour's duration. I will not mention any names at the present time. I have heard also honourable senators who are experts in particular subjects place before the Senate speeches which, in my view, not merely enhanced the reputation of the Senate but also gave those senators an opportunity to say many things which needed to be said and to place many things in their right perspective. I believe that there always will be occasions when individual senators will want to speak for more than 30 minutes, and when they will have things to say which will justify their speaking for more than 30 minutes. 
Therefore my Party has been solid. It has been unanimous in its feeling that the present state of affairs should be maintained. I have not heard many complaints about the present system. I have heard compaints about one or two honourable senators who on occasions took us around the wilds of Yuendumu and other places for nearly an hour on end, and perhaps we were not terribly happy about that, but the honourable senators concerned felt strongly about the subject matter. They had! a case to put and, in my view, on the daysthat the Senate proceedings were not being broadcast, they had a right to put their case even though they took longer than 30 minutes to do so. The feeling of my Party - it has been my personal feeling for 13- years - is that there is nothing wrong with, the present time limits, and I believe they should be retained. 

 Senator WILLESEE (Western Australia). (9.49)  -  Even though my good friend  Senator McManus  and his colleagues are voting: with us tonight - I do not confine these remarks to them - I must say that many years before I came into this Parliament I read a book called 'Inside Parliament' written by Warren Denning who was a journalist in this place and who later wrote Caucus Crisis'. It was an unhappier experience for me to read that. 'Inside Parliament' was much more pleasant. He impressed me very much when I was a very young person. Honourable senators will realise that he wrote the book a long time ago. I agree with Voltaire who said, or is reputed to have said: T will disagree with what you say but I will defend with my life your right to say it'.  Senator McManus  quite rightly indicated in a very charitable manner that although some of us may speak for only 5 minutes it may seem as though we have spoken for an hour. But there are times when an hour is very well spent ir&gt; discussion. Back in 1970 when this subject was being discussed a survey was made of the average speaking times in the Parliament. I will take a little longer tonight than I usually do so that I can give some details of non-broadcast times because we are agreed on what the broadcast time allotments ought to be. 
I turn first to Supply Bill (No. 1), and I am sure that my friends will not mind my mentioning the names of some of the senators who spoke in the debate on that Bill. They were  Senator Keeffe, Senator Greenwood, Senator Cavanagh, Senator Georges, Senator Little  and several others. Their average time of speaking on that Bill was 17 minutes. In a debate on fauna conservation, as would be expected, the name of  Senator Mulvihill  topped the list. We have had a lot of jokes with  Senator Mulvihill  about this subject, but let me say that the first I ever heard of conservation or ecology was from him. My great education on those matters came from  Senator Mulvihill  long before those topics were popular in the community. He spoke for 28 minutes.  Senator Poyser, Senator Byrne, Senator Georges  and  Senator Lawrie  also spoke in the debate, and their average time was 16.4 minutes. I turn next to an Appropriation Bill. Putting an Appropriation Bill before the Senate is rather like the approach of a sergeant-major to his troops in asking whether there are any complaints. He is asking for the lot. The speeches on that Bill lasted for 17 minutes, 20 minutes, 3 minutes, 3 minutes and 2 minutes.  Senator McManus  spoke for only 3 minutes that night. Perhaps he was not feeling well. 
But it was a good speech. 
I merely say that the Australian Democratic Labor Party decided last week to support  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's proposal. 
I  seek leave  to present a petition from 259 citizens of the Commonwealth. 
My question, which is asked of the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration is: Where the passport of an Australian citizen travelling abroad has been cancelled, has that Australian citizen the right to see the allegations which have been made about him? Has he the right to submit material in rebuttal of those allegations? If so, to whom should he apply? 
asked the Attorney- 
General, upon notice: 
Will the Attorney-General supply a list of persons who have been financially assisted, after application to the Registrar, in Arbitration Act actions during the past 5 years, and the trade unions concerned. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Since 1st January 1967, the Registrar has, pursuant to regulation 138 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Regulations, directed that financial assistance be given by the Commonwealth to the persons set out in the following list. The list also sets out the respective trade unions involved in the proceedings brought by those persons. In some cases, such as those where the applicant was awarded costs against the respondent or where the proceedings have not yet been completed, no application has been made by the applicant for a payment pursuant to the regulation. An asterisk has been placed against the names of persons in respect of whom the Registrar has determined that an amount should be paid pursuant to the regulation. 
 The Democratic Labor Party will support the motion. The Senate either has all night sittings or, when occasions such as this arise, agrees to sit an extra day. My Party is in no doubt whatsoever about what it wants to do. It thinks that it is better for the Senate to meet tomorrow than to have all night sittings. 
 Make them all like the Australian Workers Union. That is a good union. 
No.  Senator Georges  is not a left winger. 
Call it. Why should they be outside? 
The Committee stage is the meat of the Bill. Why not got to the meat of the Bill? 
Well, when do we get to the Committee stage? 
That is what you are doing. 
Which are the ones? 
 I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. Will the Minister give consideration to the statement of  Mr Morgan  of the metal trades employers' organisation that that body will negotiate direct with the amalgamated metal unions on fresh wage claims? Did similar negotiations last year result in a 9 per cent wage increase with flow-on claims which left arbitration for dead and the wage system in chaos? Is the announcement by metal employers based on their confident belief that they can compensate themselves for wage concessions through the tariff and price increases and throw the burden on the farmer, the small business man and the person on a fixed income, and will it throw new burdens on export industries? Finally, is the motto of the metal employers 'I'm all right Jack'? 
I have listened for about two or three weeks to the contributions of Opposition senators to the debate on this Bill; I think it is about time somebody else got a chance to speak. I want to say that the Australian Democratic Labor Party will support this motion. After the long hours during which we have listened to second reading speeches on this Bill - many of them were repetition - I do not know of one further argument that could be put before this chamber, even if we were to sit for the next couple of months. Every aspect of the Bill has been fully debated. We have had lengthy debates on it at the second reading and committee stages. I have not troubled the chamber on the matter. The Australian Labor Party has had plenty of opportunities to put its case. If it alleges that it is sincere in its actions, I would like to know why it has. required! three or four divisions to be conducted, one after the other. If it is- anxious to debate the provisions of the Bill, I would like to know why, immediately after one division ' has been' concluded, Opposition' senators have called for another division on practically the same question, and then for a third and a fourth division. If anybody tells me that that was not a filibuster then he does not know the meaning of the word 'filibuster'. 
I know the meaning of it, having had to listen to  Senator Milliner  and his colleagues for the last couple of weeks. During that time we have had interminable speeches repeating the same thing over and over again from people who claim that they want the Bill dealt with in a reasonable manner and without any trouble. What has happened during that time? What happened on Friday afternoon is a disgrace to the Senate. What has happened tonight is a disgrace to the Senate. I have been a member of this chamber for many years. During that time I have never heard such insulting language used to a  Chairman  of Committees as was used in this chamber tonight. In my view the traditions of the Senate have been dealt a very severe blow over the last 2 sitting days. I have been present when honourable senators, including members of the Australian Labor Party, have had grievances against Ministers and have expressed their feelings in a reasonable way in accordance with the forms of the Senate. They have not grossly insulted a  Chairman  of Committees in the way that the  Chairman  of Committees was insulted here today and last Friday. 
When people call out the most insulting language that one could imagine and are put out of the Senate for misbehaving in that way and others get up and repeat it the Senate ceases to be a Senate; it becomes in the view of some people a place in which they can indulge in hooliganism. I feel that action ought to have been taken after the events of last Friday. I believe that there should be discussions between the  President  of the Senate and the leaders of the parties with a view to obviating this kind of thing in the future. I intend to vote for this motion because I feel that the disgraceful way in which the proceedings of the Senate have been carried on in the last couple of days leaves me with no alternative. The sooner we get into recess and get the nasty taste of what has happened out of our mouths the better. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. For some time I have noticed repeated statements on behalf of the Australian Labor Party that the Attorney-General and the Government are not trying to catch draft dodgers, and today I have heard a complaint from a representative of the Australian Labor Party that the AttorneyGeneral is showing too much zeal in trying to catch draft dodgers. I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Can he inform me about these representations from the Australian Labor Party? Does the ALP want draft dodgers caught, does it not want them caught, or has it not made up its mind? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the MinisterinCharge of Tourist Activities. My question refers to the failure of an Australian travel agency which occasioned considerable inconvenience and loss of money to a number of travellers to and from this country. Will the Minister make a statement on what extent, if any, the Commonwealth was involved in action taken in regard to this matter and what extent, if any, the Commonwealth is involved in action at present being taken by a number of authorities? Will the Minister state also whether, in view of the fact that a number of important travel agencies are located in Canberra, the Commonwealth contemplates action to ensure the rights of travellers in the future? 
I merely wish to speak to the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and say that of course the Australian Democratic Labor Party will support it. We feel that it is a very sensible proposal and that particular aspects of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse - which inquired into the drug question - should be under reasonably continual review as the occasion arises. We think that this is a valuable suggestion and for that reason we shall vote for the amendment. I say finally that I listened to  Senator Turnbull  with considerable interest. When he finished I thought of a play by George Bernard Shaw 'When Doctors Disagree' because, as  Senator Turnbull  himself admitted, there may be eminent doctors who disagree with him on certain aspects which he put forward. It is a fascinating matter but it is not for me to discuss at this moment. Once again I merely say that we will support the amendment. 
Three months ago I asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration the following brief question: 
In the case of the cancellation of the passport of an Australian citizen travelling abroad, has that citizen the right to see the allegations made against him and is he given the opportunity to rebut them; if so, to whom should he apply? 
That is a simple question and I would expect it to take perhaps half an hour to compile an answer to it. I am unable to understand why I have not received a reply although it is 3 months since the question was asked and I request the Minister to obtain an answer for me. 
 I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Will the Minister take note that at meetings and demonstrations throughout Australia the gravest possible concern is being expressed by migrants to this country from behind the Iron Curtain at a revival, instigated by the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, of a system' of repression, tyranny and deprivation of human rights such as one had hoped would have disappeared to some degree in those countries? Will the Minister make available details of the recent trials of intellectuals, writers and others, particularly in the Baltic countries, in the Ukraine, and especially in Czechoslovakia where it is being freely said today that liberty has been destroyed completely? 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party also supports these Bills. I think we all agree that with so many new countries if I may use that term, coming into the diplomatic field, it was eminently desirable that action should be taken to place clear!) in perspective this question of consular and diplomatic privileges and immunities. It could be said of most older countries that they did observe certain customs and diplomatic etiquette. It is not sufficient in the new kind of world in which we live, when new countries are entering the diplomatic field, however, that privileges, immunities and so on be based upon custom or a general willingness to observe them. Therefore it is all to the good that the convention which was agreed to in Vienna should be adopted by the various countries of the world and it will also be to our good. There have been one or two disquieting cases concerning certain consular representatives coming into Australia. Without stressing the point, I say that some concern has been expressed at the contents of luggage which some of thse people have been bringing into this country. Fortunately, the diplomats who have come here have in almost every case been men of very high quality; there has been nothing to fear from them. However, there have been one or two disquieting cases of bringing into Australia what I might term contraband. Therefore it is all the more desirable that the question of what may be brought into this country and what may not should be set out very clearly and definitely for the benefit of persons having diplomatic relations with this country. 
I appreciate the final point made by  Senator Wheeldon  that it is undesirable that attacks be made upon diplomatic buildings. All of us, I think, would deplore any form of violence against diplomats who represent other countries in Australia. 1 would point out, however, that the number of attacks upon embassies in Australia have been equal to if not exceeded by attacks on Australian embassies in certain other countries. It has not been a one way traffic and we are not entitled to suggest that Australians are more at fault than certain other people. It is to be deplored that there should be at any time attacks upon the buildings of diplomatic personnel and I am glad that Australia has stated in its adherence to the convention that it intends to rely upon the highest standards in those matters. The Democratic Labor Party fully supports the Bills. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware of statements being publicised - for example in the editorial of World Agricultural Report', an Australian publication - that because of failure to attack the problem of bovine brucellosis Australia by 1975 could be banned from her best overseas beef markets and the beef industry could be almost ruined? What truth is there in these reports and do they represent cause for alarm? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
In the case of the cancellation of the passport of an Australian citizen travelling abroad, has that citizen the right to see the allegations made against him and is he given the opportunity to rebut them; if so, to whom should he apply. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The Minister for Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Section 8 of the Passports Act 1938-1966 prescribes that an Australian passport may be cancelled by the Minister or an officer authorised in that behalf by the Minister. The decision whether to disclose the grounds for cancellation is determined in the light of individual circumstances in each case. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs afford the Senate any information on the claim given publicity today that a naturalised Australian citizen who was not born in Yugoslavia on a visit to Yugoslavia  has been deprived of his liberty on the plea that he owes military service to that country? 
I ask of the Minister representing the Minister for the Army a question which refers to the recent statement by Lieutenant-General  Sir Thomas  Daly, the former Chief of the General Staff, that abolition of national service, as proposed by the Australian Labor Party, would reduce the Army's strength from 40,000 to 20,000 and the number of infantry battalions from nine to live, and would cause 4,000 officers and non-commissioned officers to be redundant and therefore left without jobs. In the opinion of the Minister, what would be the effect of such drastic action to reduce the size of the Australian Army and to deprive 4,000 highly trained officers and non-commissioned officers of their jobs? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, refers to the revaluation of the Australian dollar which was supported recently by the Leader of the Opposition in another place,  Mr Whitlam,  and which was opposed by the Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister because of its serious effects on our rural industries. Will the Minister ask those responsible to ensure that in any decision upon this grave matter regard will be had to the statement issued by  Mr F.  M. Wiltshire, the  President  of the Australian Industries Development Association, in which he said that revaluation would have the most serious effects on Australia's manufacturing industries and would lead to considerable unemployment? 
I seek leave to make a statement on a- matter on which I believe I have been misrepresented. 
Yes, 
As you know,  Mr President,  last night  Senator Georges  made a statement in regard to the Prime Minister. The 'Canberra Times' in' reporting it today states as follows: 

 Senator Georges replied, '1 have not accused the Prime Minister of corruption. That was suggested by  Senator McManus'. 
A number of people have expressed surprise. I also am surprised. I- will merely read from Hansard - I think that is all that is necessary- the report of what happened.  Senator Georges  made his statement. I said: 'That statement is an allegation of corruption'.  Senator Georges  said: 'It is an allegation of patronage'. I then said: 'It should not be made under privilege'. I appreciate that the reporter concerned may have had some difficulties because there were a lot of remarks flying backwards and forwards, but 1 hope that he will quote the Hansard report and make it clear that I did not accuse the Prime Minister. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry advise whether the Commonwealth has been concerned in discussions on the mercury content of fish and the ban arising therefrom which is proving to be a grave threat to the Victorian fishing industry? Will the Minister examine the situation in other fishing countries where the mercury content permitted is double that which is allowed in Victoria and discuss with the State action to relieve the grave effects of the ban on the Victorian fishing industry? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General concerning the question asked previously by  Senator O'Byrne  in which he named persons who were in the employ of the Commonwealth, said that they were unworthy to be in that employ and asked for action to be taken against them. Because an important issue of civil rights is now involved, is not the appropriate action for the honourable senator to take in such a case to place the evidence before the Public Service Board for investigation first rather than to blacken the character of these persons in the Senate where the senator concerned has the protection of privilege and the people concerned have no power to defend themselves? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Will the Minister take note of the fact that there is considerable dissatisfaction in the Goulburn Valley and other northern Victorian fruit growing areas over the progress of the tree pulling programme for the purpose of rationalising production in the industry? Will he particularly take note of the fact that I am informed by a number of constituents that the procedures in regard to compensation for the tree pulling are proceeding far too ;lowly and that there is a belief in the district that the allocation of quotas is on a most unsatisfactory basis? As this industry has had a most difficult time, will he arrange for officers of his Department to examine the situation and endeavour to allay the discontent? 
The Democratic Labor Party is firmly opposed to terrorism and violence wherever they occur, whether among migrants or in the trade unions. We have the utmost sympathy for those people who may suffer as a result of terrorism and violence, and we will give full support to any measures which the Government may think necessary to stamp out terrorism and violence. That has always been the attitude of the Democratic Labor Party. I have rarely had to raise this matter among migrant groups, because migrant groups have a proud record of adherence to the law. Some years ago an investigation carried out by a committee which included representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions reported that among migrants there was, if anything, a little less crime than among Australian born citizens. On the very few occasions when it may have been necessary for me to speak to migrants about the possibility of violence, I have always urged them to keep the law, not to resort to violence but to observe the law whatever may have been their feelings towards other groups in the community. 
I regret that  Dr Cairns  has in another place suggested that the Democratic Labor Party may have been in sympathy with violence. I would merely say to the doctor that it is on record that he has said that if you do not believe that a law is right, you have the right to disobey it, you have the right to break the law. He led demonstrations of thousands of people who had been instructed to break the law by obstructing the public streets. Then after several of these demonstrations had been held he learned that they were leading to violence, that police were being spat on and described as pigs. When he learned what was happening in these demonstrations he professed regret and attempted to dissociate himself from them. But once you embark upon that course it is very difficult indeed to dissociate yourself from the consequences of urging other people to break the law. The advice the DLP might offer to migrant groups or to other groups in the community is this: The law should be obeyed, terrorism and violence should be completely foreign to our country. 
Only on Thursday last I led a deputation of Croats from sporting organisations to meet the Attorney-General. They desired to place before him their detestation of disorder. They assured him that the persons concerned were not associated with their organisations and that they were prepared to co-operate in every possible way with Commonwealth and State authorities to prevent this disorder. I believe that that is the attitude of 98 per cent of the Croatian people in this country. They are good people, law-abiding people opposed to violence. 
I am pleased to hear from  Senator James  McClelland that he too feels that 98 per cent of Croatians in this country are worthy people. Regarding the motion that has been moved by  Senator Murphy,  I appreciate that his Party takes a serious view of some of the recent happenings and that it felt action should be taken. However, my Party does not believe that a Senate committee is an appropriate body to deal with allegations of this character. From what we saw at question time today I have little doubt that reference of this matter to a Senate committee would result in a senatorial donnybrook which would do little credit to either side. I accept the attitude of the Attorney-General, that police investigations are now taking place both at the Commonwealth and State levels and that we should at least await a report from those police forces, and possibly action. We have all read reports in the Press of raids upon premises and of the possibility of arrests. Therefore, in all of these circumstances, I think we ought to wait to see the picture fully and properly before we determine the action we should take here. Even  Senator Murphy  envisages that action to refer the matter to a Senate committee could possi bly be premature. He has suggested that should it be found that a more appropriate way would be an inquiry or a royal commission by a judge, then he would be prepared to make way for such an inquiry. 
The attitude of my Party is that we feel that the result of the investigation should be awaited and when we receive the report, if it is unsatisfactory, if it does not indicate that there is full knowledge of what is happening, or if it suggests that the matter is not being dealt with properly, we will be prepared to support a royal commission under a judge. I think that in a matter such as this it is necessary sometimes to refer to history. I think that it is necessary to go back possibly to 1916 when President Wilson issued that statement which electrified many of the peoples of Europe. He said that in bringing about peace, peoples and provinces were not to be bartered away from sovereignty to sovereignty as if they were chattels and pawns in a game - even the great game of the balance of power. But before he entered the scene a secret treaty had been made in London between Tzarist Russia, France, Britain and Italy. 
Under the secret treaty of London, Croatia and Slovenia were to be divided between Italy and Serbia. Therefore, the job was done before the representatives of those who believed that government should be by consent of the governed even had been allowed to arrive at the peace table. That was done in defiance of the wishes of the Croatian people who desired to be independent but who, if they had been forced to unite with another country, would have preferred Austria. They were forcibly incorporated in a state which was was given the new name of Yugoslavia. Of course, there is no such thing as a Yugoslavian any more than a man born in Great Britain is a United Kingdomer. There are English, Welsh, Scots and Irish. In the same way, the people who were forcibly incorporated in the new state without regard to the wishes of most of them were Serbs, Croats, Slavs, Albanians, Dalmatians, Italians and several other races. Therefore, they were not incorporated in this new state by their own consent. They were incorporated by force for 2 reasons. Firstly, because it was desired to break up the Austro-Hungarian empire. Secondly - and this is a reason which weighed very strongly - it was desired to reward the Serbian people for their herioic sacrifices during the war. 
Of course, what resulted from such an illmatched union was continual trouble and problems. The Serbs distrusted the Croats. For that reason the Serbs maintained complete control of the Government and they rejected the demands of the Croats for autonomy within a federal republic. There were continual problems. As an indication of the kind of thing that was happening, let me read from a history of the time, an account of an eye witness of a happening in the parliament of Yugoslavia. A man called Racic who was opposed to the Croats ran towards the tribune. The author says: 
The Minister of Justice,  Vujcic,  who sat close to the tribune, jumped up and seized  Racic's  right hand, but  Racic  hurled him back and simultaneously fired at  Pernar- 
He was a Croat member -  a few feet away. Without a sound  Pernar  fell to the floor . . . After the first shot,  Gjuro Basaricek,  whose place had been at the stenographer's table near the tribune, dashed at  Punisa  Racic trying to grab his hand, but Racic faster, aimed sideways at this right shoulder, not half a foot from the gun, and killed him instantly. Then, wilh a swift turn Racic pointed the deadly weapon at Radic. 
He was the leader of the Croatian Party. The account continues: 
The latter's left hand neighbour,  Grandja,  intervened and was trying to push our  President  under the bench, when he received the third shot into his left arm. Instinctively he withdrew it, and a fourth shot, closely following the third, hit Radic in the abdomen. The leader's nephew, Pavle  Radic, had been standing outside the hall when he heard the first shot. Alarmed, he came running to his uncle's side and, screening him from  Punisa  Rack: received the fifth ball, shot into his back . . . 
He died instantly. A few years later, King Alexander of Yugoslavia was murdered whilst on a visit to France. One must realise that there are grave problems associated always with any attempt to force people into a government which they do not want to join and which they believe refuses to give them ordinary and elementary rights. That is the background of the present situation. When the Second World War broke out the Croats divided into several groups. Some of them were associated with Pavelic who became the leader of the Ustasha. Others, such as the writer of this book,  Dr Macek,  the head of the Croatian 
Peasant Party, refused to associate with the Germans, the Italians or the Ustasha. He spent the last part of the war - several years - in a Ustasha prison. He was the leader of a very considerable element among the Croatians. It has been said that there were atrocities and there were. It has been suggested, because of the superior propaganda organs available to one side, that the atrocities were entirely on the sides of the Croats. But if we read the book of  Dr Macek  who was a moderate and who was prepared to campaign to bring peace inside Yugoslavia - he spent the last years of the war inside a Ustasha prison camp - we find that he says that there was equal fanatacism upon both sides. He concludes this paragraph, which I will not read because it is a long one, by saying, referring to both sides: 
Their hordes were not satisfied with attacking each other, but loosed their fury over entire Croatian and Serbian villages. Aged people and terrified women and children paid with their lives. . . . 
There existed a most unpleasant situation and atrocities were committed not on one side but on both sides. Large numbers of people escaped from Yugoslavia during the war and after the war. They came to this country. I have spent a lot of time trying to find out from people whom  I  regard as impartial Croats what is at the back of all this business. Although there has always been some trouble, they say that they find great significance in the fact that there was not a great deal of trouble until the last few years when Australia, following an agreement with Yugoslavia, decided to admit to this country citizens with Yugoslav passports. The Government accepted the word of the Yugoslav Government that they were acceptable people whereas those who came prior to the passport period had had to be screened. I understand from the Attorney-General that that was the case. Am I correct in that? 
At any rate, that is what those people say. 
There may be, but I am repeating what I was told, even as late as yesterday, by a person who came from Yugoslavia and who is neither a Croat nor a Serb. He told me that it is his impression that a great deal of the trouble has been stirred up by recent arrivals whom he called 'passport migrants' - people who had come here with passports since the conclusion of this agreement and who were accepted on the word of the Yugoslav Government. He told me also that there is profound uneasiness among the Croatian people because they believe that in Australia there are a number of agents of the present Government of Yugoslavia who are agents provocateurs and whose purpose it is to stir up trouble. Some young Croats have said to me that they would have no association with some people who profess to be extreme Croatian patriots because they noticed on a number of occasions that when some of these young fellows enlisted to go to Yugoslavia - for the purpose, they said, of starting a revolution or changing the Government - the Yugoslav police were waiting to receive them when they crossed the border. They were picked up immediately. There is a feeling of profound uneasiness among the Croatian people that there are people here in Australia who are agents of the Yugoslav Government and are stirring up trouble. They are persuading some of these young fellows to go there and they in fact are being led off to prison because the whole thing is being organised by a group of agents provocateurs. 
That may or may not be true but all the incidents of violence have not been against the Serbs. II the honourable senator is fair he will recognise that that is so. I believe that the Serbian people are people of great determination. They are the last people to stand back and allow themselves to be ill treated without retaliating. There has been a certain amount of violence on both sides but I will not say who is responsible because up to date no convincing evidence has been produced to determine this. There is every necessity for our police, Commonwealth and State, to inquire fully and strongly Into this matter. We in the Australian Democratic Labour Party urge the Government to take the strongest action against this violence - these bombings - from whomever it emanates. I assure the 
Government that we will give it full support for any firm action that it may be called upon to take. 
I am assured by a number of Croats that a factor in the present situation is that President Tito is more than 80 years of age and that a number of factions in Yugoslavia are preparing for the day when he passes on. I am assured, on very strong authority, that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics is particularly interested in what may happen in Yugoslavia because it always has resented the independent action taken by President Tito. I am assured that overtures have been made by agents of the Soviet Union to the Croatian people in certain places. 
I am pleased that  Senator Mulvihill  agrees with me, although he said that only a small group was concerned, that overtures have been made by Soviet agents for the purpose of getting these people on the Soviet side in the event of the departure of Marshall Tito and the position in Yugoslavia being thrown into the melting pot. I am informed that the anti communist Croats will have nothing to do with these overtures but there is, as honourable senators know, a small Croatian Communist Party which had to be dealt with by Marshall Tito within the last 12 months. That Party has been assured of Soviet help and the Soviet Union at the present time is endeavouring to involve itself in the possibilities which will arise after the death of Marshall Tito. 
do not agree with all the criticism that has been levelled at the Attorney-General because of the alleged failure of Commonwealth and State police to catch the culprits. It is not easy to catch them, particularly when people realise that if they are prepared to help the authorities they run the grave risk of attack themselves. Mention has been made of the Ships' Painters and Dockers Union in Victoria. A number of Australians have been murdered within the last 3 years. The first man was shot dead in the presence of thirty or forty people, but according to their stories to the police not one of them saw him shot. In every case involving others who have been shot, murdered or seriously wounded those concerned have copped it sweet. They have said that they did not know and could not imagine why anybody would shoot at them. We have seen photographs in the Victorian Press of the homes of some members of the Ship Painters and Dockers Union which today are protected like fortresses. We have been told that a prominent member of the union has disappeared. The Police have expressed the opinion that he is either dead, and his body disposed of, or that he has been compelled to go into hiding because, it is said, he took part in the union elections. Last week the following newspaper report appeared: 
Police believe James  Bazley,  47, the painter and docker who has survived 2 ambushes in 4i months is in danger of further attacks. Police said today that Bazley - recovering in Royal Melbourne Hospital from Saturday's ambush - has 'some bad enemies' . . . Police said that the weapon used in the first ambush ... on 2nd May was a .38 pistol. They believe that a .38 pistol was also used in Saturday's shooting. A bullet passed through  Bazley's  left thigh and a second lodged in his left shoulder in the 2nd May ambush. 
When one speaks of terrorism and violence, what could be worse than that? The (Ship Painters and Dockers Union used to be affiliated with the Australian Labor Party. When I was an official of the Australian Labor Party and a union got into grave trouble, we sacked it from the Party. We cancelled its affiliation. When Joe Chandler of the Building Workers Industrial Union sent a donation to the Party's election funds, we sent it back. I would be interested to know what action the Victorian ALP has taken in regard to this union where a reign of terror exists. Members of the union have been murdered and others have been shot, and the police say that they believe that further attempts will be made upon the lives of these people. 
I did not blame all the painters and dockers. All I am saying is that there is this system  of  terrorism which is just as bad as what  went on  in Sydney the other day. I wonder what the trade union movement has done about it? In the United States  of  America and in Great Britain the trade union movement on occasion has taken the firmest action possible to clean up this kind  of  thing in a trade union.  I  am still waiting to hear what action will  be  taken in the Australian trade union movement where a reign of terror has been going on for the past 3 years in the union I have mentioned. 
I conclude by saying that I hope that this unhappy, unpleasant and unsavoury business will not be allowed to become entirely a political football. As we know, all political parties have associations with different migrant groups, including groups concerned in this trouble. I say in all honesty that surely this is an occasion when the leaders of all political parties should issue an appeal to these people to do all they can to prevent what is going on. Why should not everybody -  Senator Gair, Senator Murphy  and all leaders in the Senate - emphatically condemn this kind of thing? To be fair to them, some have already expressed their condemnation, but why should they not jointly condemn this kind of thing and tell whoever these people are that the whole political force of every party in this country is against what they are doing and that every party will support firm action against them if they attempt to carry on with it. The attitude of my Party is that we will await the report from the Commonwealth and State police. If the report is unsatisfactory, if it indicates that the Government has not full power or if it indicates that further action should be taken we will be prepared to support a royal commission under a judge to advise us as to what should be done. 
I apologise for delaying the Senate but I feel it is necessary to do so in view of representations that have been made to me on the plight of fruit growers in the Goulburn Valley in the northern areas of Victoria. I have received a statement from a representative fruit grower on this question in which he refers to the present tree-pull scheme, that is, the scheme for which the Commonwealth Government is providing some assistance with the help of the States in order to lower production by reducing the number of orchards. I am informed by this representative fruit grower that the present grass roots opinion of the tree-pull scheme is that it is being implemented in such a way that it will make no. difference to the overproduction problem because few growers will be able to take advantage of it. The bankrupt grower will have to leave his farm in any case, but now there will be some money for him to pay part of his debts to the chemical companies; but the grower who has enough liquidity to carry on and who is in a position to take some acres of trees out of production and to diversify will not get the financial help he needs to make such action possible. 
It costs a lot of money to take out trees and to redevelop the land and the present State and Commonwealth delay will mean that the fruit is on the trees before the enabling legislation to pull them is passed. The second point is that there is considerable dissatisfaction at the allocation of quotas, that is for the acceptance of fruit from the different growers. I am not in the position to question the present system which I understand is operated by the canneries; it may be quite fair and just, but there is a lot of doubt and dissension among growers on this question. The suggestion has been made to me that it ought to be possible to do what is done in the assignment system in the sugar cane industry whereby each sugar refinery has on display a map of the growing area showing each grower's assignment, and there is a central council to which appeals can be made. There is also written into the scheme a statement that overriding consideration will be given to the principle of the living area. The northern fruit growers have for years conducted a cost of production survey which could give a factual basis for such an arrangement. I think that is a constructive suggestion. I will not delay the Senate except to say that 2 propositions have been put forward. I believe that the fruit industry in the north is in a very difficult and dangerous situation, and I hope that urgent action will be taken to consider the matters I have raised. 
My question to the Attorney-General refers to an allegation, made in another place by  Dr Cairns,  that the Government was not acting strongly against Croatian terrorists because allegedly the Australian Democratic Labor Party was giving some support to these terrorists. Has the Minister noted that, on the authority of my Party, in my speech yesterday I dealt with that allegation and demonstrated to this Senate that it was completely untrue? Has the Minister noticed, however, that the newspapers which printed  Dr Cairns'  allegation completely ignored the denial which I issued on behalf of the DLP? Is there not room in this country for a Press Council such as the one that exists in New Zealand for the purpose of giving justice to people whose views are incorrectly reported or are even not reported? 
 I do not propose to dignify the farrago that we heard from  Senator O'Byrne  by giving a long answer. I do not think it merits a long answer. He gave the answer to his own allegations. When  Senator Carrick  said that by accusing people of being members of the Croatian Liberation 
Movement  Senator O'Byrne.  was accusing them of being responsible for the violence,  Senator O'Byrne  said: T did not say that'. 
There you are. What is there to answer? He said that they are members of the Liberation Movement but he does not say that they are responsible for the violence. He has answered his own allegation. I think that his speech was of such a nature that it does not deserve to be dignified by giving it a reply, but he mentioned the Democratic Labor Party. He referred to what was said by  Dr Cairns  on a previous occasion this week. On behalf of the DLP I delivered a statement in which I denied what  Dr Cairns  had said. I referred to what he had done. I regret that the sections of the Press which gave prominence to  Dr Cairns'  allegation did not give any publication to my denial, on behalf of the DLP, in my speech yesterday. When I see that sort of thing happening I come to the conclusion that the Press code of ethics is a work of fiction. 
In Australia there is hardly any organisation of migrants from behind the Iron Curtain which does not have a liberation front. There is a difference between a liberation front and a body which indulges in violence in this country. That is what Opposition senators do not appreciate or understand. There was a liberation front in this country which had members with names such as O'Byrne, Mulvihill, Cavanagh and McManus. As Opposition senators know, there was a liberation front, and the leader of their Party was one of the heads of it. 
That is what I said. Opposition senators should be clear on this. They do not appear to be. There is nothing wrong in having a liberation front as long as its members stand merely for the liberation of a country and do not use violence or illegal methods to bring that about. There is nothing wrong with that. 
 Senator O'Byrne.  has  said that  Senator  Cavanagh  referred to  the occasion when a prominent member of the Labor Party assisted in the burning of the British flag in the gutter on St Patrick's Day. He would not have much trouble remembering that. Let us be sensible about it. People are allowed to have a liberation front as long as it does not indulge in breaking the law or resorting to violence. This is one of the principles on which  we  act in this country. 
Members of the Opposition are accusing and attacking these people for doing what was done by Marshal Tito. Marshal Tito left Yugoslavia, went to Russia and became the head of the Comintern section which dealt with Yugoslavia. It was his duty to organise revolution and overturn the government of the country  by  violent means. 
 I can only say from my knowledge of the history of the Labor Party  in  this country that the Labor Party never downed or attacked the right of  people  to  condemn  tyranny in an overseas country  and it conceded  their right to form an organisation by peaceful means to advocate freedom in that country. 
 I will repeat what  Senator O'Byrne  has said. He said that the liberation front does not blow people up.  Senator O'Byrne  is my authority for the the fact that the liberation front therefore cannot be attacked I think that what has been said in this debate is completely ridiculous and does no credit to the Senate. 
Finally, I want to say that the Australian Democratic Labor Party - and I repeat my statement which the Press apparently does not want to publish - has had no association at all with any form of violence; we condemn the violence; and once the police report comes before the Senate we will support an inquiry for a royal commission if this course of action is justified. 
 Look, this is just one great piece of nonsense and the honourable senator knows it. 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. My question relates to the fact that at this time of the year we are accustomed to reading reports that our universities will have to impose quotas on the entry of students and, in consequence, receiving demands that extra universities be provided. However, at the same time we have leaders of universities - a notable example of this came from the Australian National University the other day - pointing out that a considerable num ber of students who enter universities, in some faculties more than 25 per cent, either do not complete the first year or fail and leave at the end of the first year. My question is: Will the Minister give consideration to calling upon the universities to institute some reasonable system of ensuring that those who enter universities arc equipped to get the full benefit from the course rather than the present situation where we have a combination of large numbers dropping out and, simultaneously, the demand for more places? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport investigate and make a statement on the claim by representatives of the new SI. 2m koalin industry at North Ballarat, Victoria, that it will cost more to tranport the clay from Ballarat to Burnie. Tasmania, than it will cost to ship it to Burnie from England and that this will prevent the Australian industry from competing effectively with British companies? Is not this a case for action to assist decentralisation? 
 I  direct  a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In the course of the preparation of his reply to certain complaints from the Ambassador  te?  Yugoslavia, will the Minister for Foreign Affairs bear in mind that official biographies indicate that in the late 1930s Marshal Tito was the head of the Yugoslav section  of  the Communist International located in Moscow and that his duties consisted of organising his fellow nationals for the violent overthrow of the then government  of  Yugoslavia? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for National Development: Is the consent of the South Australian Government necessary for the supply of natural gas from South Australia to New South Wales? If so, what action has  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia, taken to ensure that Australian made pipe will be used, so preserving employment for Australian workers? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry following representations by orchardists in the Goulburn Valley. Is the complaint correct that to obtain a tree pull grant under the present Government proposals, orchardists in Victoria's Goulburn Valley must forfeit their cannery shares? Are such orchardists being told that the cannery shares are valueless, although within the last 12 months such shares were valued for probate at $3 a share and a widow concerned was forced to pay at that rate although in indigent circumstances? Are the conditions so rigid for a tree pull grant that only those in extreme poverty can benefit? 
My question which refers to the recent sales of wheat to Mainland China is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister noted the concern which has been expressed by Japan and at least one other country which has been a customer for Australian wheat that regular supplies of wheat to them as customers might be interrupted if Australia resumes the large scale sales of wheat to Communist China which occurred some years ago? Can we have an assurance that the Government will ask the Australian Wheat Board to bear in mind the importance of having diverse markets for Australian wheat rather than the old position which caused Australia such considerable trouble when the overwhelming amount of our wheat was sold to one customer? 
I feel that I must bring before the Senate a very serious matter which indicates that an Australian citizen has been deprived of his liberty and passport in a European country without in my view any proper process. Today I received a letter from the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  in which he said that on 12th September I asked whether any information could be given about a naturalised Australian citizen who was not born in Yugoslavia but who had been deprived of his liberty in Yugoslavia on the basis that he was required to do military service for that country. The Minister advised me that the man concerned is Johan Jurman who was born at Fohnsdorf Austria on 27th December 1943 of Slovenian parents who claimed Yugoslav nationality. 

 Mr Jurman came to Australia on 1st February 1965 having travelled from Austria, the place of his birth, and he became a naturalised Austraiian citizen on 29th September 1969. On a visit to Yugoslavia in August 1972 he was questioned by the Yugoslav authorities who informed him that he was liable for military service and confiscated his passport until this fact was established. On learning of this the Australian Embassy at Belgrade approached the Secretariat of Foreign Affairs there and asked for the return of his passport but up to the present time it has not been returned. The Embassy is continuing its efforts to obtain it. 
In my view this is a most serious matter. An Australian citizen who was not born in Yugoslavia has been deprived of his passport and liberty in Yugoslavia on the ground that he owes military service to that country. One of the most vital things that any country is required to do is to defend the civil rights of its citizens. As this matter has gone on now for  2  months I believe it indicates an apparent attempt by the Yugoslav authorities to deprive this Australian citizen of his rights. I have no doubt that our Department of Foreign Affairs is doing what it can. 1 believe it is a most serious matter and is one on which the Australian Government is entitled to take the strongest of stands and 1 hope that it will do so. Great numbers of Australian citizens in recent years have gone to European countries. There has been very little trouble of this kind but when it occurs it is up to us to take the strongest of stands on the rights of people to whom we have granted Australian citizenship. I express the wish that our Department of Foreign Affairs will take the firmest of stands with the Belgrade Government on this matter. 
 I shall not delay the Committee for very long. 1 suppose that people who happen to be listening to this debate will not be under any illusion that an election is coming on shortly and that what they have been listening to tonight have been the preliminaries of the election campaign. In assessing the attitude of the Australian Labor Party we must go back to the very honest statement made by a very honest man,  Senator Wilkinson,  who led for the Opposition in this debate. He said: 'Estate duty was originally introduced by the Australian Labor Party because of its philosophy. Over the years the situation has changed, but our philosophy' - that is the philosophy of the Australian Labor Party - 'has not changed.' For this reason Opposition senators are in a rather invidious position tonight when, for electioneering purposes, they are posing as the friends of those who may suffer from estate duty. 
I do not desire to deal at very great length with this matter because we have had exactly the same kind of position before on a number of occasions when propositions have been advanced in this chamber. I recall one instance in regard to assistance to be given to aged people in homes for the aged, and things of that sort. Members of the Opposition have expressed great concern about these matters and on occasions have even voted with us to amend a Bill in the way that it is attempting to do so tonight. However, I think everybody should understand that if this amendment is carried it does not follow that it necessarily becomes law.  Senator Murphy  said, very rightly, that it will become law only if it is then carried by the House of Representatives. So all that we are doing tonight is not altering the law but making a recommendation to the House of Representatives where the Government has the majority. We make a recommendation to the House of Representatives that it should accept this amendment. I have seen this kind of thing happen before. In the House of Representatives the Government simply says that it has the majority and it will not accept the amendment from the Senate. Then the Government points out that it cannot accept the Bill in that form and that if the Senate persists in the amendment the Bill will be held up and the people will not receive the ameliorations which are proposed in those clauses of the Bill. 
In normal circumstances we could do that, if we had plenty of time ahead of us, but the sittings of the Senate will end next week or the week after for the election. In those circumstances we would be faced with the situation that, if we delayed this Bill, other proposals in the Bill which will be of advantage to people in regard to estate duties will not come into effect and might be held over for months. 
 Senator Cavanagh  says that it is not a possibility, but I have seen it happen. We have supported an amendment for the amelioration of a Bill and the Australian Labor Party has voted with us, but then when the Government has stood firm and said that the Bill would not come into existence and other good provisions of the legislation would be lost, I have seen the Australian Labor Party come into this place and vote for the Bill as it stood because it was afraid to accept the responsibility of losing the good things in the Bill. So all the . electioneering speeches do not obscure the main facts of the Bill 
There are valuable provisions in the Bill to improve the situation in regard to estate duties. If we delay the passage of the Bill we will be faced with the situation of the Government saying that the people will lose the whole Bill. This has happened on so many occasions. On those occasions the Australian Labor Party has consistently turned round and allowed the Bill to go through. I am rather sorry that this  matter  has been the occasion for a straight-out electioneering embarrassment exercise, I know that in their hearts members of the Australian Labor Party do not believe in the amendment because, as was said by  Senator Wilkinson  who led for the Australian Labor Party on this Bill, estate duty was originally introduced by the Australian Labor Party because of its philosophy. He added that Labor Party philosophy had not changed. 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. My question refers to the extraordinary happening yesterday where a school and school children in the national capital area were made available for the production of a commercial film of a political character. I regard the happening as extraordinary because I am a former school teacher. I ask: As it is specifically admitted that this was a commercial film, will the child labour employed in the production be paid the award rate? 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party will support the Bill because obviously its passage is certain as it has the support of both the Government and the official Opposition. 
I said that we will support the Bill and that ils passage is certain. I think  Senator Wilkinson  will agree that when the Opposition and the Government combine they have the numbers. Australia has had a commendable practice of trying to keep air navigation charges within reason so that fares can be kept within reason. Everywhere costs are rising. Those who have studied the Bill admit that what is being done is inevitable. In those circumstances I will not delay the passage of the Bill. 
 I rise merely to say that I support your ruling,  Mr Deputy President.  I would point Out that a clear statement was made by  Senator Cavanagh  that  Senator Jessop  was supported by a  Mrs Nicholson  who,  Senator Cavanagh  said, had been a Liberal Candidate. The. implication was that, as she was a Liberal candidate, he was using politically inspired information.  Senator Jessop  said: 'I want to correct the situation and point out that she is not the  Mrs Nicholson  concerned'. I think he has a perfect right to seek an opportunity to rectify the situation and the Chair, as has been done a thousand times in the Senate, gave him the opportunity of doing so. I regret that it should have been found necessary to move such a motion, which seems to be designed to attempt to throw a smokescreen over the fact that  Senator Cavanagh  named  Mrs Nicholson. 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry refers to reports of considerable concern being expressed in Japan at the resumption of large scale wheat sales by Australia to China and of fears that these sales may mean that supplies may not be available to the Japanese market which has been opened up in the last few years. Bearing in mind that the wheat crisis of several years ago was caused by over-emphasis on vast sales to China which were cut off without warning, and also bearing in mind that the wheat crisis was alleviated by diversifying our sales to other countries such as Japan, can we be assured that our wheat authorities will act to keep our new customers, at least as a safety provision. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Does the Australian Government have any objection to the existence in Australia of organisations of former overseas nationals from countries under dictatorships, such organisations supporting the freedom and autonomy of their country, provided that they do not resort to violence and do not break the laws of this country? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. What is the Government's attitude to proposals for a feasibility study of prospects of obtaining oil from Australian coal, including brown coal available in large quantities in the Gippsland area of Victoria? Will the Government study the paper on this sub ject that was delivered at the World Petroleum Conference in Moscow last year? 
I find this discussion particularly interesting because I have always been under the impression that there was no political test for an appointment to a position under the Commonwealth Government. Now I find that there is an obvious attempt by members of the Australian Labor Party to demand a political test. The suggestion that has been made is that a person may have been appointed a commissioner because of his political views. I have watched these appointments over the years and it has interested me that as far as I know none of the many friends and supporters of the Australian Democratic Labor Party in the trade union movement has ever obtained an appointment to one of these positions. 
 Mr Horan  always said he was a member of the Labor Party. He resigned from the Party, which at the time claimed to be the ALP and with which I was associated, before he was appointed. So I can only say that no person who has ever been associated with the Democratic Labor Party, in spite of the considerable number of trade unionists who have been associated with it, has ever been appointed to one of these positions. 
He was a member of the Australian Labor Party and when the split occurred he resigned from the group with which I was associated and which still claimed to be the legitimate Party. He resigned from that Party before he was appointed. I would know this better than  Senator Poyser  because I was the assistant secretary at the time and I received  Mr Horan's  resignation from the 
Party before his appointment. The Australian Labor Party's attitude is that a person should be appointed to a position not on his ability as a trade unionist and on his knowledge of industrial affairs but because he is politically orthodox. I ask those listening to this debate to realise that if a Labor government is elected its primary consideration in any appointment to any position apparently will be that the person under consideration is sympathetic to the political standpoint of the Australian Labor Party. To me, that is a revolting prospect. 
 Senator Poyser  is Baying it. He has said today that a man who has sympathies with the Democratic Labor Party is not eligible for appointment as a commissioner.  Senator McAuliffe  has said it, too, and I am surprised at this because I have had a lot of regard for him. I can only wonder whether his arm has been twisted from the Brisbane Trades Hall. 
 Senator Milliner  laughs, but he and I have been in the game for a long time. We have been around the course. I know how these things are done, and so does he. It was said that  Mr Brown  was just a clerk in the office of the Australian Workers Union.  Mr Brown  had been secretary of the Federated Clerks Union in Queensland. 
 No, but he had that experience. I would have thought that, when one selected a man for a position such as this, one would examine his whole field of experience.  Senator McAuliffe  says that this man, who has been secretary of the Federated Clerks Union in a most important State, is ineligible to be appointed as a commissioner because he does not like his political views. It is a scandal that a senator should come into this chamber and advocate that in making an appointment to a position one should ascertain a man's political views first and his experience and qualifications for the position should come at some later stage. 
That is what we could look forward to under a Labor government. If that is the way things are to be run, the people of Australia had better have a good look at what will happen. It will be a bad day for this country if people are appointed to jobs only if the Australian Labor Party approves of their political views.  Mr Brown  is not a member of the Democratic Labor Party, but members of the Australian Labor Party have said: 'We think he has sympathies with it'. In Japan before the war there was a crime known as dangerous thoughts. People were arrested and put in prison in Japan before the war for having dangerous thoughts.  Mr Brown  is not a member of the Democratic Labor Party but the Australian Labor Party suspects that he sympathises with the DLP and so, because of his dangerous thoughts, they say he is not eligible to be appointed. That used to be described as fascism but today it is the policy of the Australian Labor Party. I know that honourable senators opposite will say: 'We did not say that' because this matter is now being put right at their front door. 
I have been in the Senate for years and I have read of man after man who was a member of the Australian Labor Party being appointed as a conciliation commissioner. I have never said that he should not have been appointed because I did not like his political views. If he had the trade union experience and was a man of integrity, why should I have objected because he was a member of the ALP? 1 have a lot of good friends who are members of the ALP and they are very good people, too. It is appalling that, 17 years after the establishment of the DLP, when a man has received the nomination for appointment as a Conciliation Commissioner members of the Australian Labor Party stand in this Senate and say that he should not have received it. They do not say that he is a member of the DLP, but they say: 'We suspect that he is sympathetic to the DLP'. Where are we getting to? What has been put forward today is an absolute scandal. If honourable senators opposite think that  Mr Brown  is not qualified because of his trade union experience or if they do not think that he has sufficient experience in industrial affairs they are entitled to stand and attack him. But they should not attack him because, although he may not be a member of the DLP, they suspect that he is sympathetic to the DLP. 
I have listened in the Senate night after night to honourable senators opposite. 1 listened to them last night talking about Rugby League. Despite all the imporant issues that are before this Senate, I listened to a long talk from somebody about how good Rugby League was. Then I listened to somebody else who wanted to say what a good thing Rugby Union was and 1 put up with it. But we have now reached the stage where a man who has been the secretary of a big union and who now occupies an important position in another big union has received the nomination for a job and members of the Opposition get up and say: We are against it, not because he does not have the experience, not because he is not qualified and not because he is a member of the DLP, but because we suspect that he is sympathetic to the DLP'. All I can say is that this entire procedure indicates the kind of attitude that will be adopted by a Labor government, where dangerous thoughts will be a crime. 
I accept the statement of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  that, in his view, the approach of the Australian Labor Party is that there should be ho political or religious test for appointment to these positions, but obviously that is not the view of some of those who sit behind him. It has been indicated definitely , by  Senator McAuliffe  that  Mr Brown  was appointed on political grounds. Let everybody listen to the record of this man as I read it. He is in his early 40s. He became a trade union official at the age of 19 and he has held full time positions in the trade unions for 19 years. He was the first full-time secretary of a trade union in Papua New 
Guinea, that is, the Public Service Association. He formed the first trade union in Papua New Guinea for private employees. He was secretary of the Clerks Union in Queensland from 1965 until 1972. He was vice-president of the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations. He was a member of the executive of the Queensland branch of the Industrial Relations Society, a member of the Brisbane Regional Panel of the Australian Frontier and a member of the Immigration Advisory Council. It has been said that he was only a clerk in the Australian Workers Union.  His  position with the AWU is stated as being Industrial Officer. The suggestion is that the man who has all those qualifications got the job only because, while he was not a member of the Democratic Labor Party, it was suspected that he might have been sympathetic to the DLP. 
I am sorry that the question of  Mr Brown's  health has been raised. I have always understood - and I used to be a public servant - that before one could be appointed to a Public Service job one had to pass a medical examination. In this case he would have had to pass a medical examination because persons occupying these positions are eligible for superannuation. 1 think it is a shocking thing that a senator should get up and say that he is a physical wreck. 
A physical derelict. 
I thought  Senator Mulvihill  said that. I ask him to say what he said about it. 
He said that he was a physical derelict. 
That was my hearing of it. Surely there is some privacy for the state of a man's health. 1 did not know that there was anything wrong with his health.  Senator Mulvihill  could not have known that there was anything wrong with his health unless he had had access to his medical adviser. I think it is a scandalous thing that the statement should be made under privilege - he cannot challenge in the courts - that a man is a physical derelect, by a person who would have no knowledge at all of the state of his health. How could  Senator Mulvihill  have any knowledge of the physical health of this man? Are we in the position where anybody can come into this chamber and point to any person and say: 'You are a physical or mental derelict'? I think that is a shocking state of affairs. If that is an example of the kind of government we would have under the Australian Labor Party, the people of Australia will know what to do on 2nd December. I want to refer to only one other matter, that is, the reference which has been made to  Mr John  Horan. I think it is regrettable that members of the Australian Labor Party have attacked his appointment and said that he was a member of the Democratic Labor Party. 
 Senator Poyser  said that he was a member of the DLP. 
There we have the statement that he should not have been a Commissioner because he was associated with the DLP. 
John Horan was a personal and very dear friend of mine. He was a man of outstanding integrity and he was a great Labor man. 1 am sorry that his name has been brought up in this place to be bandied about, because he was buried only- 
I think you might listen to this in silence because of what I am about to say. I am sorry that his name has been bandied about in this place because he was buried 2 days ago. Let me say this. He was a great Labor man in the West Australian Labor movement. He came to Victoria and he was a great man in the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Parly. He became an official of the Transport Workers Union and later the Federal Secretary of that union. In 1955 he was elected President of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party, by acclamation, after he had been President of the Victorian Trades Hall and one of the best presidents in its history. 
When the split occurred John Horan stayed with us to a point. But when it appeared that there were going to be 2 branches of the Labor Party he was so good a Labor man that he came to me and said: 'I have been Labor all my life. I have been proud. I looked forward to being President of the Labor Party and now there has been trouble and I have been told that I am not permitted to preside al the conference of the Victorian Labor movement.' And he said: T am finished.' Shortly after that - we still claim at that time that we were 'the' Labor Party - he came to me and said: 'I am not prepared to go on in a divided organisation; I will resign'. I therefore owe it to his memory to say that he was never a member of the Democratic Labor Party, because he said he was a member of 'the' Labor Party, and in his view there could only be one. 
When he was appointed a conciliation commissioner I know what Albert Monk - and I think you would take him as a good judge of character - thought of his qualifications for appointment, and I know that even people like Jim Donnegan, who is a communist and Secretary of the Ships' Painters and Dockers Union, paid a tribute to him one of the greatest commissioners who had ever been appointed. I leave it at that. I think we owe it to his memory not to bring his name into a dogfight. I thank  Senator Murphy,  who knew him, for the very kind words he said about John Horan. 
 I  give notice of the fo lowing contingent motion: 
Contingent upon the re-appointment of the legislative and general purpose standing committees, I shall move: That there be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence the following mailer - The adequacy of the Australian Army to perform its necessary part in the defence of Australia. 

 Senator McMANUS (Victoria) - I  give notice of the following contingent motion: 
Contingent upon the re-appointment of the legislative and general purpose standing committees, I shall move: That there be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence the following matters - All matters relating to the recognition of China and the status of Taiwan. 
 Mr President,  because I was acquainted with 3 of those who are mentioned in this motion,  Senator Gair,  the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, has asked me to speak on his behalf. I was not acquainted with  Mr Thorby  but I have read of his achievements as a member of this Parliament in which he was a notable figure and I regret sincerely that he has passed on. I offer our sympathy to his relatives.  Mr Riordan  was a member of one of the best known Queensland Labor families and for many years he represented a very difficult seat in the north of Queensland. He was well known to many members present, I think, and his ability was recognised by the Chifley Government by his being promoted to Minister for the Navy.  Mr Tom  Burke I knew quite well. He was a man of tremendous integrity and I respected very strongly his political outlook. I met him on a number of occasions both before and after the events which divided the Australian Labor Party. He was always very loyal to that Party and I believe that during his term in this Parliament he made his mark as a member.  Mr Mortimer  was a member while I was here. I think we all deeply regret the untoward happening which has deprived his relatives of him. 1 offer to his relatives and also to those of  Mr Riordan  and  Mr Burke  the very sincere sympathy of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
I would point out that there is an oversight.  Mr Paul  Jones, who represented the Australian Labor Party for 2 terms in the Victorian seat of Indi, died within the last couple of weeks. I knew  Mr Jones  very well. He was not associated with the Australian Labor Party in the last few years, but he was a very kindly man who was extremely popular in many Labor circles. He was a member of the Federal Parliament for 2 terms, achieving office on the first occasion in a rather remarkable way. The Country Party candidate forgot to nominate and  Mr Jones  was elected unopposed. However, on the second occasion he was elected in his own right.  Mr Jones  was not. only a member of the Federal Parliament. He was also, for a very considerable period, a member of the Legislative Council in Victoria. I feel sure that it is only an oversight that reference to his death has not been made this afternoon. 1 express our sympathy to his relatives, and I request the Leader of the Government in the Senate to act to include the name of  Mr Paul  Jones in the condolences motion. 
Deaths of former Presidents Truman and Johnson, and of  Mr Pearson 

 Senator MURPHY (New South WalesLeader of the Government in the Senate) -  Mr President,  also since the last meeting of the Senate the deaths of former Presidents 
Harry S. Truman and Lyndon B. Johnson of the United Stales of America and of Lester B. Pearson, a former Prime Minister of Canada, have occurred. 
The task of presiding over the administration of a nation as large and as powerful as the United States is onerous.  President  Truman and  President  Johnson made no lesser effort to satisfy the demands of this unenviable office than their predecessors and successors. Both came to office under circumstances of war with formidable consequences. It is inevitable that the head of the world's most powerful nation should have unparalleled opportunities to exert his personality and leave his mark on history. The history books have already recorded the achievements of Harry S. Truman. However, the historians have not yet fully assessed the contributions of Lyndon B. Johnson. Neither man's task was simple and in their own ways they sought to define America's role in the world. 
Both men came from humble rural beginnings in the United States heartland. Harry Truman was the son of a horse trader and provincial politician. He was born on 8th May 1884 in Missouri. He was a bank clerk, farmer, artillery captain in the First World War, and a county judge before being elected to the United States Senate at the age of 50 in 1934. He succeeded to the White House in April 1945 following the death of Franklin D. Roosevelt. 
Some of his decisions at home and abroad, particularly in times of war, will be forever disputed, including his decision to use atomic weapons against Japan during the Second World War. After the war his presidential contribution was seen in a different context - through the Truman Doctrine 'to support the cause of freedom wherever it was threatened' and from his attempted role in the emergence in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation in 1939. His influence was obvious in efforts to make the benefits of scientific and technological progress available for developing nations through his 4 point programme. His $ 12,500m Marshall Plan of 1948 was the greatest contribution to the rebuilding of nations devastated by the Second World War, and the economic rehabilitation of Western Europe. His domestic policies were no less ambitious but probably less productive. He attempted to carry out Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal programme to distribute more equitably America's wealth and guarantee civil rights to black Americans. 
Some have said he was ahead of his time in these attempts. Most of his proposals were rejected by Congress. He faced the added difficulties of post war shortages, inflation and industrial unrest. 
At least until the last budgetary announcements by President Nixon the United States was still attempting to carry out the domestic principles laid down by Roosevelt and his successor Harry S. Truman. 
Contemporary observers are of the opinion that Lyndon B. Johnson achieved more in domestic legislation than he did in foreign affairs. A Texan, born on 17th August 1908, he was elected to the Congress in 1937 and later became a senator and Senate majority leader. The eighth Vice-President to succeed to the presidency, he was sworn in as the 36th  President  within half an hour of  President  Kennedy's death from an assassin's bullet. Domestically,  President  Johnson was one of the great reformers. He was responsible for an admirable succession of social and domestic measures. Among them were the anti-poverty programme, the Civil Rights Acts of 1964, the medicare scheme to provide health insurance throughout the community, and an attack on slum housing and urban decay. He lifted the level of administrative thinking on conservation and environmental preservation; he was responsible for the most extensive anti-crime bill in United States history; he was in the forefront of concern with consumer legislation. 
He developed an affection for Australia and visited this country 3 times. He was the only  President  to visit Australia while in office, and did so twice. The Vietnam war was the great tragedy of his career.  President  Truman and  President  Johnson were both members of the Democratic Party, a reforming party with pluralist principles as guidelines. The role that this Party and its presidential leaders have played in the search for a greater, more just, and more generous America is considerable. I am sure that all honourable senators will join with me in having this Parliament convey its sympathy to the families of the late Presidents and to the American people. 
Former Prime Minister of Canada, Lester Bowles Pearson, died on 27th December. He has been widely acknowledged as one of the most eminent figures in Canadian and world affairs and an international statesman in a nation which has been in the forefront of forthright and progressive policies in world affairs. His unyielding contribution worked towards the transformation of Canada's reputation from that of an imperial dominion subject to Britain and American economic colonialism into an independent force in the community of nations. Canada and Australia have much in common - modest populations and vast areas, much of them arid and unsettled, and are medium powers within the context of power blocs and multi-national associations. 
Lester Pearson's achievements were mostly in the areas of diplomacy and foreign policy. Many throughout the world remember him for his work as Canadian Minister for External Affairs, an office he assumed in September 1948. He was one of the founders of the United Nations and described it as 'our best hope for world peace' and clung vehemently to its principles and ideals. In the sphere of his United Nations activities he worked closely with  Dr. H.  V. Evatt, a distinguished Australian Minister for Foreign Affairs whose contribution and death were recorded in this chamber several years ago. 
Lester Pearson recognised, as stated in his autobiography,  Dr Evatt's  role as a persistent and diligent champion of smaller nations. Lester Pearson led Canada's delegation to the United Nations General Assembly to 9 sessions and was elected as  President  of the General Assembly. He was born in April 1897 at Newtonbrook in Ontario and was a graduate from the universities of Toronto and Oxford. He served with distinction in the Army Medical Corps, the Canadian Infantry and the Air Force during the First World War, After the war he was for a time Professor of History in Toronto. During the Second World War he was Canada's Ambassador to the United Nations. 
Lester Pearson became the Prime Minister of Canada in April 1963, at the height of his career, and dedicated himself to a united Canada based on an equal partnership between its French and English speaking communities. National honours were heaped upon him and he was the only Canadian ever to receive the Nobel Prize for Peace. I am sure honourable senators will join me in paying tribute to him at this time and in expressing sympathy to his family and to the Canadian people. 

 Senator WITHERS (Western AustraliaLeader of the Opposition) - On behalf of the Opposition I would like to be associated with the remarks of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy). President  Truman and  President  Johnson had somewhat similar careers in that both came to the presidency under similar circumstances. Both were serving as Vice-President at the time of the death of the  President.  In addition, they were able to gain endorsement as  President  in their own right by their own election. 
The similarity continued: In the immediate post-war period the late  President  Truman realised that if the Western world did not make a strong stand all of Europe would quickly fall to the Russian communist empire. As Russian influence seemed likely to spread into southern and western Europe,  President  Truman introduced the Truman doctrine which granted aid to Turkey and Greece and forestalled Communist intentions there. He was the  President  under whom the Marshall Plan was developed. He was the  President  who, when faced with the deterioration of relations in Berlin, inaugurated the Berlin airlift. He developed the military power of the West through the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation to meet the Soviet military threat. He quickly reacted to Communist aggression in Asia when North Korea invaded South Korea in 1950. For those of us who sit in the Parliament perhaps one of his most courageous acts was that of exercising presidential authority in removing General MacArthur when the General quarrelled with the political directions given to him by his Commander in Chief. Whatever else might be said about  President  Truman, he certainly was positive in his response to aggressive communist intentions, whether in Europe or in Asia. I think it may be said that it was the result of his strength which enabled the present detente between the United States of America and the Soviet Union to come about. 
On assuming the Presidency  President  Johnson faced a somewhat similar problem to that faced by  President  Truman in that in South East Asia revolutionary aggressive communism was undermining the security and stability of the area. It is to the eternal credit of Lyndon Baines Johnson that he responded to the situation. I know,  Mr President,  that arguments will go on for years over the actions of  President  Johnson within South East Asia but, whatever else may be said, eventually his successor,  President  Nixon, was able to deal with this matter at a peace table. Although it has been said often that  President  Johnson failed in foreign fields - an argument with which I do not agree - there is no doubt that he introduced a vast number of social programmes and gave real meaning to the civil rights programme in the United States. I suppose many Australians remember  President  Johnson better than most Presidents because, as  Senator Murphy  said, he was the only serving  President  to visit this nation - once in 1966 and again in 1967 to attend the memorial service for the late Prime Minister,  Mr Harold  Holt. 

 Mr President, both men provided a great service to the free world democracies and both will be long remembered by those who support liberal, free institutions as opposed to the militant, illiberal and degrading institutions of the communist world. 
The life of Prime Minister Lester Pearson in some ways spanned those of both  President  Truman and  President  Johnson. It will be interesting to see how history judges these 3 men because  Mr Pearson  took a somewhat different line from that followed by the 2 great American Presidents. He was a firm believer, as  Senator Murphy  has mentioned, in the use of the United Nations to bring about world peace. That was recognised by the fact that in 1957 he was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. I think history is yet to judge which of these 3 men followed the best course of action. The Opposition joins with  Senator Murphy  and supporters of the Government in extending its sympathy to the relatives of those 3 deceased gentlemen. 
My question is directed to the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It refers to the statements made by  Mr Francis  James alleging that he was arrested and imprisoned without trial, tortured, denied access to representation and his health gravely affected in Communist China. I ask: Does the Government intend to investigate these statements? As the custodian of the rights of Australian citizens will it demand an explanation and/ or apology and reparation? In default of such action will the Government warn intending travellers to Communist China that the Commonwealth Government accepts no responsibility for the freedom and safety of Australian travellers there? 
I understand and can sympathise with the exuberance of a government newly in office, but I hope that on some minor matters the exhubrance of the new Commonwealth Government will be tempered with a little more common sense. I was amazed to read in the Press during the period since the last election that a judo team from Taiwan which had been invited to participate in an international tournament in Sydney had been told by the Australian Government that its members could compete as individuals but that they could not compete as a team. Frankly, I think that is just stupid and ridiculous. A team of basketballers from Taiwan also visited Australia and apparently invited an Australian team to visit Taiwan. I read in the Australian Press that the Australian basketballers had approached the Government with a view to visiting Taiwan and were told that they must not go to Taiwan but were directed - 'directed' is the word that was used in the newspapers, and I find it hard to believe that that word was used - to go to communist China instead. 
The statement in the Press was that they were directed by the Government. I hope those allegations are untrue, but they were not contradicted by any of the numerous Government public relations officers. I hope we have not reached the stage of authoritarianism, within 3 months of the new Government coming into office that it is telling sportsmen where they can and cannot go to play sport. 
Let us look at the situation with respect to Taiwan. I will not traverse all of it because we will be discussing it again at some other time and it is too late in the evening to do so now. Is there a ban on trade with Taiwan?  1  wrote a letter to the Minister for Overseas Trade,  Dr Jim  Cairns, and asked him what was the position in relation to trade with Taiwan. I did so because our trade with Taiwan has been if anything a bit better than has our trade with Communist China, despite the big discrepancy in the populations of those  2  countries. I received a reply from  Dr Cairns  saying that trade would be permitted just as before, that special arrangements were being made for Customs and so on and that the only change in the trading relations was - this seems to be silly - that we would not be sending any promotion teams to Taiwan to try to sell our exports. If there is no ban on trade with the Taiwanese but if instead, we are chasing their trade ali we can because it has been, and is, worth more than the trade of the whole of mainland China, why are we holding up our hands and saying that we cannot permit an Australian team to go to Taiwan to play basketball? If it is good enough to trade with Taiwan surely it is good enough not to interfere with the free passage of a basketball team or a judo team to that country. 
I will not go into all of the other ridiculous things that have happened since the new Government took office but, for example, what happened when a Band of Hopers wanted to stay in Sydney for a short period en route to New Zealand and we were piously told that because they came from Rhodesia they could not stay in Sydney? Fortunately the Minister for Immigration,  Mr Grassby,  intervened and did the sensible thing and let them stay. We have to put up with the situation whereby 
Wilfred Burchett can get an Australian passport but a highly decorated Air Vice-Marshal who was born in this country is denied an Australian passport. 
 Apparently because he is serving Rhodesia at the present time. But there is no Rhodesian situation in regard to Taiwan. There is no United Nations ban on trade with Taiwan. As I said before, we are so anxious to keep their trade that we are making special arrangements. Let us have politics in the fields where politics has a right to be. I hope we have not reached the stage of authoritarianism whereby a judo team will be prevented from coming to Australia and taking part in an international competition in which it has been invited to compete, and that we have not. reached the stage where a team of basketballers is told by thu Government that it must not accept an invitation to go to Taiwan but should go to Red China instead. 
In directing my question to the Minister for Works f refer to what I understood to be a statement by him yesterday when compulsory unionism was being discussed. 1 understood him to say that he believed that persons not prepared to join a union could go to the country and work in primary industry. As this proposal to divert non-union labour into primary industry seems to me to be rather extraordinary for a  L-i  -or representative to put forward I ask whether it has the approval of the Australian Workers Union. 
My question is  addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Were 18 merino rams shipped from Australia to Bombay after the recent election, with the full authority of the Labor Government, to the order of the leading Indian textile combine, the J.K. organisation? I presume that this would have been in the period of the 2-man government but I am not sure. Is the statement of the JK organisation true that the rams were acquired at an Australian auction last year and that the Whitlam Government, when approached for permission to export the animals, agreed to the shipment - and these words are in italics - provided no fuss was made? 
I address my question to the Leader, of the Government in the Senate. It directs attention to the position which arises, for example on the issue of divorce, when a Senate committee is appointed to hear evidence, report, and make recommendations, but without waiting for its report 
Government decisions are made on that issue. To what extent does the Government regard itself as called upon to take notice of the fact that a Senate committee is engaged in consideration of an issue? As a matter of courtesy, in relation to issues similar to that of divorce will the Government arrange, for the relevant Minister to appear before the committee concerned and advise it of the reasons foi anticipating its report and recommendations? 
 I address my question to  Senator Bishop  in his capacity as the Minister representing the Minister having control over the use of VIP aircraft. Wilt the Government follow the example of the previous government, and lay on the table details pf ali persons other than crew members who have travelled iri VIP aircraft since 2nd December? 
My question to the Minister for Works, relates to the statement that it is the intention of the Government that preference in allotting contracts shall be given to firms which adopt satisfactory attitudes in regard to conditions and relations with the trade unions. I ask the Minister: What is the method by which this will be implemented? Will firms be required, when submitting tenders, to support their tenders with evidence of their relationship with the trade unions, or does the Government propose to seek information in each case from union officials? What exactly will be the procedure? 
Why? 
As I said at the commencement of my speech, a lot of the thrust has gone out of the debate due to the indication that has been given by the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop).  Nevertheless the humbug and cant of the Opposition and just how hypocritical it is in this matter will be recorded in Hansard because all that is being introduced in 1973 is something that has existed in the Commonwealth Railways division of the Commonwealth Public Service since 1947. It has long been recognised in Queensland because it is on the statute book. 
The conclusion I have drawn from the arguments of honourable senators opposite is that they have set out on a course of obstruction. They know that this Government is in great favour with the electors. In 100 days this Government has achieved more than all the other governments in the last 23 years put together have achieved. AH honourable senators opposite are trying to do is obstruct. But before they continue with that policy I remind them of the elementary things in politics. This Government was elected on 2nd 
December - quite recently - with a very sizeable mandate from the electors to carry out certain policies. The last time an election was held for the Senate was 3 years ago, so the mandate given to honourable senators opposite is becoming old and rusty. I say to honourable senators opposite: 'Watch out! If you continue on the course you are following, when you face the electors at (he next Senate election and give an account of your stewardship, as commonsense thinking people they will do the same thing on that occasion as they did on 2nd December.' 
My question is directed to the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence, he being a Minister having some responsibility for VIP aircraft. Why was  Mr Mick  Young, Federal Secretary and campaign organiser for the Australian Labor Party, permitted to use VIP transport, for travel on the electoral duties of his Party during the recent election campaign? Who sought this privilege for  Mr Young?  Who granted it? What are the particulars of each journey by  Mr Young  and the dates on which he travelled by VIP aircraft on his Party's electoral business at the expense of Australian taxpayers? 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry refers to a primary industry of importance to Australia and particularly to northern Victoria. Can the Minister advise what is the present economic outlook for the canned fruit industry? Is it too early to determine the effect on the industry of the tree pulling organisation which was set up last year and which did not appear to be functioning very well? 
 Senator Gair,  the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, has asked me to speak on behalf of our Party because 1 was a personal friend of the late Bill Bryson. I served on his electoral committee when he was first elected to Parliament. As has been said by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy), Mr Bryson  in his younger days was a prominent official of the Postal Workers Union. He was also prominent in another sphere - sport. For quite a few years he was treasurer of a football club that is not unknown in this country- the Carlton football club. When  Mr Bryson  entered Parliament, as the Leader of the Government in the Senate said, he served on a number of committees and also served this country very well as a parliamentarian. 
He was first elected for 3 years in the time of  Mr Curtin.  He lost his seat to  Mrs Maurice  Blackburn and won the seat back at the following election. He remained a member of Parliament until the division occurred in the Australian Labor Party. Bill Bryson was one of the kindest and most courteous men that I have known. He was a man of tremendous courage and although for what he believed in he sacrifices a very promising political career, I never at any time heard him complain about the results of what he did. He was a friend for many years. I will always treasure the fact that he was a friend. I am particularly happy that only a few days before he died I met him at a social function and we talked over old times. On behalf of the DLP I offer our sincere sympathy to the surviving members of his family. 
I am sure that a lot of those who are listening to this confused debate will be wondering by now what it is all about. Let me explain. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his policy speech before the election promised that he would give 4 weeks annual leave to every public servant instead of the present 3 weeks. Instead of taking action by legislation the Government brought in a regulation in the hope that the new regulation would say that only those who were members of trade unions would receive the extra leave. Now the Opposition, of which we are a section, has said that if the Prime Minister made a promise be should keep it. The remarkable situation which has been arrived at is that the Opposition is trying to get the Government to carry out the promise made by its leader in order to win the election and the Australian Labor Party Government is fiercely resisting the efforts of the Opposition to carry out the Prime Minister's promise. As a result of the resistance of the Opposition the Government has caved in. It realises that its proposal that only trade unionists receive the extra leave will not get through. It has said that when the proposal is defeated, as it will be in a few minutes, a Bill will be introduced, by which every public servant will receive 4 weeks leave. That is all that the Opposition wants. We have been attacked with a tirade of abuse. We have been accused of being antiunionists and of hating the trade unions. 
I am a member of 2 trade unions. I have been told by a member of the Australian Labor Party that I ought not belong to a trade union. He says that members of Parliament are not eligible. But I say this: I was a teacher and when I ceased to be a teacher the union asked me to remain a member. Then I looked at the situation. I asked myself what was the trade union nearest to the calling which I would follow as a member of Parliament. I decided on the Federated Clerks Union. I am a financial member of both trade unions. My colleague in the Australian Democratic Labor Party,  Senator Little,  was an official of the Australian Boot Trade Employees Federation. When he left his calling he determined that he would remain financial. He still is. But like myself he asked what trade union was nearest to the calling which he would be undertaking as a member of Parliament. He joined the Federated Clerks Union. Many members of the Australian Labor Party are in the Federated Clerks Union for the same reason as we joined it. We are not anti trade union. We believe in trade unionism. How can a man pay money every year to belong to 2 trade unions if he hates them? 
 Senator Poyser  asks whether I believe in the policy of my trade union. In Victoria one of the trade unions to which I belong - the Federated Clerks Union - is affiliated with the Democratic Labor Party. Does  Senator Poyser  agree with that policy? He does not. That is a different proposition. But the bottom has dropped out of this debate because the Government is going to do what it should have done in the first place and that is legislate for 4 weeks annual leave. We in the Opposition will vote for that. Everybody in the Public Service is going to receive 4 weeks leave. But in the course of this debate there has been a lot of discussion about compulsory unionism. A number of speakers, and  Senator Cavanagh  in particular, made the point that they were opposed to compulsory unionism. But I think  Senator Cavanagh  should have qualified bis remark and explained what he meant by opposition to compulsory unionism. This situation was fought out in the trade union movement about 20 years ago.  Senator Cavanagh  would remember that. There was a powerful move in the trade unions to introduce compulsory unionism in States where Labor was in power. Originally a number of unions - right and left wing - supported it. But all of a sudden they went cold on the proposal. 
The right wing unions went cold because it was pointed out to them by the legislators that if compulsory trade unionism was introduced a Bill of Rights would have to be introduced for the individual trade unionists who were forced to join a union. The unions did not want that because some people pointed out that a section would have to be included in the Bill of Rights stating that a unionist should not be forced to contribute to a political party in which he did not believe. That would have harmed the Labor Party because it obtains affiliation fees from unions. So the Australian Labor Party and many of the right wing unions decided to oppose compulsory unionism by law. The other reason that was put forward -  Senator Cavanagh  would know this - was that a number of left wing unions said that if compulsory unionism was brought in and people were forced to join unions they would probably be the conservative type and they would vote against the left wing leadership of the union. So those unions did not want to have as members potential opponents to their leadership. The result was that people like  Senator Cavanagh  and others decided to oppose compulsory unionism by law. But of course they are in favour of compulsory unionism by industrial action.  Senator Cavanagh,  and I challenge him to deny- 
The Minister says that that is right. He admits that it is right. He believes that they should have the power to force a man to join a union by industrial action and yet he says that he is opposed to compulsory unionism. The honourable senator's attitude reminds me of a long talk I had years ago with the late Joe Bukowski. We talked to him on this matter of compulsory unionism. I asked him his feeling about it. He said: 'I do not believe in compulsory unionism'. I said: 'How do you get on with the rural workers?' He said: 'They all join the union because they know that if they do not we will throw them in the river but there is no compulsion to join the union.' That is exactly the view of these noble hearted people on the Labor side who have thumped their breasts and said that they are against compulsory unionism. They are against compulsory unionism by law because a Bill of Rights to protect the individual unionist would be necessary. But if they have the industrial power to order people into trade unions they are in favour of it. Another matter which I think should be raised is this argument which says that if only some people pay money into trade unions to fight their case and everybody benefits from what the unions do- 
The free riders, as  Senator Mulvihill  says. There are free riders, but I am not one of them. I believe in unionism and I belong to 2 unions. One of them wanted to make me a life member so that I would not have to pay membership fees. I said that I would remain a member only if I was not a free loader and that I would continue to pay membership fees. This sort of thing can go further than is realised. If one says that the only persons entitled to benefits gained by a trade union are the union members, then when the Repatriation Bill is debated, because the returned soldier organisations do the battling and the fighting it can be said that only returned soldiers who are members of returned soldier organisations should receive the increased benefits. Is that Labor policy? 
Well, what is the difference between that and the union policy. The same argument applies to the pensioners. The pensioners have, some very fine organisations which work hard to get improvements for them, just as the unions do to get improvements for unionists. When the Bill dealing with pensions comes before the Senate I will be looking forward to a Labor supporter moving that the increases in pensions shall go only to pensioners who are members of pensioner organisations. What of the noble hearted women who work in mothers clubs and parents and citizens organisations? These noble hearted women do a wonderful job in working and organising to get improvements for the children. Will the Labor Party, when it appropriates money for the children, move that the only children to receive any of the benefits are those whose parents are in the mothers clubs and the parents and citizens organisations? I think the silence of Labor Party senators indicates that they realise how foolish this is and how far this thing can go. 
Let me. take another case. Let me get back to the trade union question. If it is right that only the people who belong to the union should receive increased annual leave, it is right that only the people who belong to the union should receive higher wages if the union achieves them. Is that the attitude of the Labor Party? All kinds of industrial conditions apply to workers, if we are to say that only those in the unions should receive condi tions achieved by the unions, we will have 2 groups of people in the industrial field. In every factory and in every section of the Public Service, although people are doing the same job some will be getting 4 weeks annual leave and some 3 weeks annual leave; some will be getting certain salaries and others much lower salaries. Is the trade union movement working for a system in which there will be 2 groups of people in industry, some with different conditions from those of the others? Government senators themselves know that this would be a chaotic situation. 
As I have said, the bottom has dropped out of the debate. We will all vote for 4 weeks annual leave being granted to all public servants. Why worry? I believe that  Mr Whitlam  and his Cabinet acted very sensibly indeed- 
Ultimately, when they realised that their proposal to confine the extra week's leave to trade union members would not be allowed to be implemented. If the Government stood firm, the DLP offered to bring in a Bill of its own to give all public servants 4 weeks leave. I think the Government was sensible in accepting the view of the majority of the Senate. It has now decided that it will bring in a Bill. So it is no longer necessary for the DLP to bring in the Bill that it promised.  Senator Cavanagh  made the point that the unions mainly concerned here were unions affiliated with the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
I do not think he told the honourable senator that, because he is usually a very careful gentleman in what he says. 
Well , I would be very interested to know what are the unions affiliated with the Democratic Labor Party. I know all the unions that are associated with our Party, and only one is interested in these determinations, and that is the Federated Clerks Union. I think  Senator Cavanagh  should be more precise. He is suggesting that the Federated Clerks Union- 
If  Senator Cavanagh  will refrain from interrupting I will explain where he went wrong. The Federated Clerks Union is a federal union with branches in the 6 Australian States. In only one State is the Federated Clerks Union affiliated with the DLP. 
Jack Maynes is the federal president; he is not a State official at all. He made a representation on behalf of the federal body. 
 Senator Poyser  knows, because he knows the union scene, that the majority of the branches of the Federated Clerks Union in Australia are affiliated with the Australian Labor Party. So Government senators are accusing us in regard to a union of which only one State branch is affiliated with the DLP and all the other babies are on their doorstep. They are all affiliated with the ALP, except that in Queensland. 
Let me make it clear. I am surprised that ali those persons with a knowledge of union affairs do not know the facts in regard to their unions. 
 Senator Mulvihill  knows the truth. In New South Wales the Federated Clerks Union is affiliated with the Australian Labor Party. As far as I know, in Queensland it is not affiliated with either party. In Tasmania it is affiliated with the Australian Labor Party. In South Australia it would be affiliated with the Australian Labor Party. 
 Senator Cavanagh  tells me that it is not affiliated with the Australian Labor Party in South Australia. At any rate, in New South Wales and Tasmania the Federated Clerks Union is affiliated with the Australian Labor Party and in Victoria alone is it affiliated with the DLP. So  Senator Cavanagh  was wrong when he said that unions affiliated with the DLP made representations, because only one union did. One union is not 'unions'. The second point on which he is wrong is when he says that the unions are affiliated with the DLP, because the union involved is affiliated with the DLP in one State and with the Australian Labor Party in 2 States, and in 3 States it is not affiliated with the ALP or the DLP. 
I conclude by saying that I think the Government has done the right thing. Perhaps we could say that it accepted the inevitable, but it has done the right thing. We intended to bring in a Bill if the Government would not. Now it has said: 'You do not need to; we will bring one in. We will all vote for it. Everybody will get 4 weeks annual leave and the public servants, at any rate, will be happy*. 
 Senator Mulvihill  has stated that I attacked the decision of the Government to cancel  Mr Rover's  passport. What I did - and  Senator Mulvihill  approved it - was to ask the Government what were the circumstances in which an Australian citizen's passport could be cancelled and what was the tribunal or body to which he could apply.  Senator Mulvihill  said that he had been agitating for that for years. What he has stated today that I am alleged to have done I never did on any occasion. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Because of the obvious necessity for the community to have clear knowledge of the Government's policy, will the honourable gentleman clarify a statement by Prime Minister Whitlam that the Australian Labor Party federal authorities - the Executive and the Conference - can be expected not to alter policy on which the Government was elected, at least until after the next general election? Can this assurance that Government policy is frozen and that the ALP Federal Executive and Conference will not be interfering with it prior to the next election be taken as authoritative? 
Has the AttorneyGeneral or bis Department any responsibility for what are claimed to be inspired Press statements forecasting in detail the statement which the Attorney-General proposes to make on alleged Ustasha activities? As the Press statement that 200 Croat conspirators have left Australia for Yugoslavia very probably places a smear on innocent Croatian citizens who recently may have left Australia on legiti mate and normal visits to their homeland and as the citizen could be subject - on the basis of the Press reports - to arrest or molestation without cause by Yugoslav police, will the Minister expedite his statement and produce the necessary evidence to pinpoint those whom he accuses so that innocent Croatian citizens here and abroad will not suffer further? 
This debate has sprung from serious differences of opinion which have been expressed in recent weeks in the ranks of the Government Party. Let us not disguise that fact. The seriousness of the differences of opinion is illustrated by the fact that the leader of the opposition to the attitude which  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Barnard  have adopted is a member of the Australian Labor Party's Federal Executive,  Mr Hartley. 
The opposition to the attitude adopted by  Mr Whitlam  is led by  Mr Hartley. Mr Hartley  is a member of the Federal Executive, and he has expressed his determination to take action at the Federal Conference or Executive level against decisions which have been announced by  Mr Barnard  in the last week. What that means is that within 3 months of being elected the Government has come to the moment of truth, which is this: When a party is in government responsibility is essential. When a party is in opposition it may tolerate irresponsibles and irresponsibility. But in government a party must be responsible. A government is responsible for the foreign policy on which the security of the country depends. Therefore the Australian Labor Party in government has an obligation to ensure that security, and to ensure that security it must act against any attempt in its ranks to take action of an irresponsible character. That was stated years ago by  Dr Evatt  during the period when Woomera was first being established. In those days there were 2 schools of thought in the 
ALP on the matter of foreign bases. I recommend to members of the Government that they read the statement issued by  Dr Evatt  on that occasion. It is called 'Hands off the Nation's Defences'. In it  Dr Evatt  drew the essential distinction between 2 utterly different propositions: 
On the one hand, the legitimate right to criticise and seek to change the Government's defence policy by democratic process: on the other, the illicit claim to perform acts designed to destroy defence measures undertaken by the elected Government, responsible to a democratically elected Parliament. 
They seem to be the 2 issues. 
Therefore I believe that  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Barnard- 
If I may continue, I believe that  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Barnard,  as they have done in the past week, must take a stand- 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What were the reasons for the cancellation of a proposed cultural visit to Australia by a professor from Taiwan. 
Why was a judo team from Taiwan refused permission to compete as a Chinese team in Australia. 
Has the Government determined to ignore the existence of Taiwan as de facto an independent country. 

 Senator WILLESEE - The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The proposed visit to Australia by Professor Teng of the Music Research Institute of the Chinese Cultural College, Taipei, was to have been made under the Cultural Awards Scheme administered by the Department of Foreign Affairs. On -2nd December 1972 Australia's diplomatic relations with Taiwan came to an end and dealings between Taiwan and Australia at official level thereupon ceased. In these circumstances it was clearly inappropriate to proceed with a Government-sponsored cultural exchange with Taiwan. There is of course no bar to privately arranged cultural visits to Australia. 
During January a judo team from Taiwan sought entry to Australia to compete in championships in Sydney that month. The team was advised that its members would be permitted to travel to Australia in an individual capacity and that they should not identify themselves with the government on Taiwan, nor purport to represent 'Taiwan', 'The Republic of China' or 'China'. This advice, which was consistent with Australia's position set out in (3), was accepted by the judo team, though in the event it was unable to secure plane seats in time to compete in the championships. 
Australia extends no recognition to the authorities on Taiwan and can therefore have no official dealings with them. The Government does not seek to prevent or hinder continuing private contacts with Taiwan. 
My question is directed to  Senator Bishop  in the capacity in which he answered the previous question. On reflection, does the honourable senator feel that he ought to be surprised in view of the fact that the issue on which I disagreed with him and others on his side was whether his Government should keep its word on a definite promise which it made to the Pubiic Service, and does he not think on reflection that his Government is very fortunate that the Democratic Labor Party and others forced it to keep its word? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Works. Is the new system of allocating contracts which he has envisaged in operation at the present time? Will regulations or legislation be necessary in order to implement the new system? Does he propose to make a statement for the information of contracting firms and possible tenderers on the principles on which allocation of contracts will be decided. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
In view of the Government's decision to remove the sales tax on contraceptives, will the Government grant similar relief from the sales tax on pharmaceutical requirements for baby care, which are at present taxed up to 27 per cent and are a heavy expense on parents. 

 Senator WILLESEE- The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Requests for new or extended taxation concessions, including this one, will be considered during the preparation of the 1973-74 Budget. 
My question is directed to the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I ask  Senator Willesee  to clarify what appears to be a complete contradiction in 2 answers to questions that he has furnished to me in the last few days. On 1st March, in response to an inquiry about travel between Taiwan and Australia,  Senator Willesee  is reported in Hansard as having said: The broad situation is that we will not be interfering with people - sportsmen, businessmen or what have you - who wish to come and go. 
That is a categorical statement that there would be no interference with sportsmen. Yesterday  Senator Willesee,  in answer to my question in regard to a judo team from Taiwan which sought entry to Australia, said that the team had been advised that its members would be permitted to travel into Australia in an individual capacity but they could not identify themselves with the Government on Taiwan or purport to represent Taiwan, the Republic of China or China. In view of the Government's recognition of Peking China 1 can understand its attitude that a team from Taiwan could not call itself a team from the Republic of China or China, however much 1 disagree, but is it not colossal stupidity for an Australian Government lo concern itself with a matter relating to a sporting team and to say that a team from Taiwan can come to Australia on condition that it dissociates itself from its own Government and that it cannot use the word Taiwan' in the team's name? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the 
Prime Minister. During the election campaign, when I made a statement that the new Government would seek to alter the voting system, the Prime Minister gave his personal word that the next House of Representatives election would be contested according to the preferential voting system as at present used. In view of the fact that last night the Prime Minister said that it could be contested on a new system - optional preferential - I ask: Does this mean that the Prime Minister has repudiated one more election promise? As the Prime Minister has said that his object is to reduce the number of political parties in our Parliament to two, will he give further consideration to this proposal to reduce the number of political parties to two, bearing in mind the statement of his friend Chairman Mao: 'Let 100 flowers flourish'? 
 I want to begin by saying that I have been in this Senate for 14 years. 
That was a matter for the electors to decide and they have elected me on 3 occasions as a member of a minority party. I have not been elected to this chamber, as have most honourable senators opposite, as representatives of a majority party who were picked either first or second on the ticket so that they could not lose. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - When the point of order was raised I was conferring with the Government Whip. Could I have an explanation of the matter you are complaining of,  Senator Keeffe? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I will hear  Senator McManus  and then make a judgment. 
What happened was that as I began to speak an insulting interjection was made from the other side of the chamber, and I replied to it on the understanding that if members of the Australian Labor Party are prepared to give it they should be prepared to take it. Now I will get on with the subject under discussion. In 14 years in the Senate I have heard all parties on occasions take action if they thought that a matter was urgent, and I do not think that people are entitled to impute all sorts of scandalous motives to other people about which they have no evidence merely because in doing so they exercise a right which appears in the Standing Orders to take action to have a matter declared urgent. Allegations have been made against  Senator Kane  in his absence at a function to which he was invited with our distinguished guest from England. I believe that those accusations have been made to prejudice the case which was to have been put forward. I repudiate completely the suggestion that when I supported the action of my Party in bringing up this matter I knew there was a court case in which  Senator Kane  was involved coming on tomorrow. 
1 do not know whether it is coming on, and  Senator Brown  does not know either. At no time until tonight have I heard any suggestion that such a thing was to happen. In relation to the alleged libel action brought by  Mr Burchett,  I have not been told the subject of it or the reason he is taking action.  Mr Burchett  is a remarkable man - he has friends on both sides of the Iron Curtain. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What were the Government's reasons for the establishment of a new body to control the Arts, headed by an economist,  Dr Coombs. 
Did the decision result in the resignation from the new body of 2 eminent Australian artists and protests from Australians eminent in the field of art, who claimed that the Government had ignored its election promises to them. 

 Senator MURPHY - The Prime Minister has supplied the following information for answer to the honourable senator's question: 
As I outlined in my Press Statement of 26th January the Government recognised that there was a need to improve the range and effectiveness of support for the arts at Commonwealth level and established a new Council for the Arts to plan and implement government policy and expenditure in this field.  Dr Coombs,  who had been  Chairman  of the former Council, was invited to be foundation  Chairman  of the new Council. 
There have been no resignations from the new body. The new developments' are in accord with the Government's - policy as outlined in the ALP policy speech of 13th November 1972. 
My question is directed to the Minister assisting the Prime Minister. I point out that a day or two ago I received a reply to a question to the effect that there would be no ban on visits by sporting bodies from Taiwan. Yesterday I received a reply from the Prime Minister which said that in the case of visits from Taiwan members of sporting bodies could come only as individuals and not as a team; secondly, that they must dissociate themselves from their own Government; thirdly, they could not call themselves a Taiwanese team; fourthly, they could not call themselves a team from China; and fifthly, they could not call themselves a Republic of China team. My question is: What is the difference between these conditions and a ban? 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party will support the Bill. We made policy about 2 or 3 years ago at our Federal Conference in favour of votes for those of 18 years of age. The argument was put forward, and there is a good deal in it, that if people are old enough to be called up to fight for their country they are old enough to vote for their country. I think it can be said that this is one of those cases that lawyers refer to when they say that one should never ask a question unless one is sure what the answer will be. In this case all parties are asking the question and none is sure what the answer will be. 1 have heard some Australian Labor Party supporters contend that it will be a big advantage to their Party, but I understand that in some places where it has been tried it has not been found to have a very considerable effect upon the percentage of votes received. I still think that, whatever happens, elections will be won on policies and strategy rather than through a particular group that may happen to have the vote. There was a suggestion in some quarters in my Party that we should make the vote a voluntary affair for people between 18 and 21 years of age on the ground that some of those young people may not be sufficiently clued up to feel that they ought to cast a vote. It was felt that we should leave it to them to decide. But as no other Party has indicated any interest in that proposition we do not propose to put it forward. The Democratic Labor Party will support the Bill. 
Notice of this motion was given by 

 Senator Gair, but he has commissioned me as the spokesman on foreign affairs and defence for the Australian Democratic Labor Party to present the motion to the Senate. Therefore, I move: 
That the Senate condemns the announced proposal of the Government to withdraw Australian military units from Singapore. Such withdrawal will threaten the continued presence of Britain in South East Asia, imperil Australia's friendship with Malaysia and Singapore and destroy the confidence of Indonesia in Australia's interest in that country's security and integrity; ultimately it will imperil the prospects of a continued American presence in the region. These consequences pose a major threat to Australia's security in the uncertain decade which lies before this country. 
That, furthermore, the Senate condemns the acknowledgement by the Deputy Prime Minister that the policy of the Federal Government on this vital security question will be determined by, a body not responsible to the Federal Parliament - the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party. 
That the Senate unequivocally supports the retention of Australian defence units in Singapore. 
May I say for clarification purposes that when we refer to the announced proposal of the Government to withdraw Australian military units from Singapore, we refer principally to the decision to withdraw the battalion of fighting troops. Whether the other troops which are said to be engaged, by some in logistic work, and by others in espionage or similar work, are to be withdrawn, appears to be a matter of some doubt at the present time. There are strong divisions of opinion in the Government party on this question, and it appears from a statement of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  that the Labor Party proposes to allow the question to be resolved by the Federal Conference of the party at a later date. 
I believe that the Senate must debate this question because it is a matter which strongly affects our security. We must also determine where we stand because of the strongly differing opinions not only as between the Government and the Opposition but also in the ranks of the Government which, on this issue, appears to be divided into 2 warring sections. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and  Mr Barnard,  whilst saying that they will adhere to a promise given prior to the election that the Australian troops would be withdrawn, are interpreting that as suggesting that it is still legitimate for them, within the terms of their promise, to leave a number of troops, variously stated to be perhaps 600 or 700, in Singapore after the departure of the battalion. 
Then in opposition to that we have the strong statement by  Mr Hartley  and the Victorian socialist Left which is extremely powerful in that State. We have the strong statements by  Mr Hartley  and  Mr Crawford  who are members of the Australian Labor Party Federal Executive, to the effect that in their view the party is committed to the withdrawal of all troops from Singapore. We have the statement by  Mr Barnard  that while the matter is in doubt at the moment and he feels that the troops ought to be left there, if he is told by the Federal Conference to take them away he will obey its instructions. 
Therefore,  1  believe that in this position of uncertainty it is the duty of the Senate to express an opinion. Why are the Australian troops there? They are there, we are informed, as part of a Commonwealth force which contains British, Australian and New Zealand troops. They are there with the willing consent of the Government of Singapore which, as the body which provides housing and shelter for the troops, is most intimately concerned. We have this statement by  Mr Lee  Kuan Yew, who some years ago was highly regarded by members of the Australian Labor Party, and is still highly regarded by large numbers of them and highly disregarded by others: 
I am quite happy with the modest forces of British, Australian and New Zealanders that we have in Singapore. They are effective for the purposes of maintaining stability in a relatively tranquil area behind Vietnam. 
It is interesting that  Mr Lee  Kuan Yew went on to say that he had no objection to the presence of Australian troops with their British and New Zealand comrades but he. would have every objection to the presence of Russian or United States troops in Singapore. He expressly stated that the reason why he approves of their presence is that he believes they are a stabilising factor in a very difficult area; he believes that they are a safeguard. Therefore, the position is that our troops are not in Singapore as part of some imperialistic process; they are there by invitation. They are regarded not only by Singapore but also by Malaysia and Indonesia - all of which would have been concerned if they objected to the presence of these troops - as a stabilising force and as a protection against the prospect of guerrilla subversion. 
My question, which is directed to the Attorney-Genera.', refers o repeated statements made in the Press several weeks ago which  1  brought to his notice and which stated that on evidence which was declared to have come from persons close to him or from his office 200 dangerous Yugoslav guerrillas were on their way from Australia to Yugoslavia to indulge in revolutionary activities. As his statement contains do reference to this declaration that 200 dangerous Yugoslavs were on their way to Yugoslavia, I ask: Where have the 200 dangerous guerrillas got to? Can we take it that the pressmen who accepted that story were fed what, in America, is described as a bum steer? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Primary Industry. A couple of weeks ago I asked him a question about the position regarding the imports of potatoes from New Zealand which were causing considerable concern to Australian potato growers, naturally, because of competition and also because of the fear of the introduction of certain potato diseases into Australia. I have not heard from the Minister. Can he give me any information at this stage? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What persons other than Commonwealth public servants have been appointed to positions on Ministerial staffs or to diplomatic posts since 2nd December 1972 and at what salaries. 
What persons have been called in as specialist advisers to Ministers since 2nd December 1972. 
What fees are paid to the specialist advisers. 

 Senator MURPHY- The Prime Minister has supplied the following information for answer to the honourable senator's question: 
(2) and (3)  Mr J.  Armstrong has been appointed High Commissioner to the United Kingdom on a salary of $23,500.  Dr Stephen  A. Fitzgerald has been appointed Ambassador to the People's Republic of China on a salary of $17,581. 
Ministers are still making appointments to their personal staff. When these appointments have been completed, I shall make available to the honourable senator and to the Senate details of the staff employed by each Minister and by office-holders of the non-Government parties. 
My question, which  I  direct to the Attorney-General, concerns the documents which were made available to some of us yesterday and which contain allegations of the most serious nature against a number of citizens of the Commonwealth and a number of persons of -Croatian origin in the Commonwealth. As all these allegations have been made under cover of privilege, what tribunal or form of redress is available to any of those citizens who have been so attacked so that they may clear their names? 
My question, addressed to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate, is based on the statement made at our Party meeting by our Leader,  Senator Gair,  that he had been informed that only 3 copies of the documents laid on the table by  Senator Murphy  would be available for the 5 senators representing the Democratic Labor Party. This means that I am not to receive a copy of these documents. Can arrangements be made for every member of the Senate to be supplied with these documents? As a number of Australian citizens and others have been attacked or charged in these documents, what arrangements can be made for the persons who have been attacked to obtain copies of the allegations made against them and to whom should they apply for such copies? 
I direct my question to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the strong language used about certain persons against whom allegations of terrorism have been made, I ask: Have allegations of terrorism been made under the cloak of privilege and have those allegations not been tested or proved in any Australian tribunal or court? 
I have been deputed to speak on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. We will support the Bill. There has been no increase in parliamentary salaries since 1968. We believe that the relativity with that section of the Public Service with which we were equated previously has been lost entirely and that what is being done by the present Government is entirely justified. I want to be fair and say that the action which the Government is taking is being taken with much more efficiency than the action which was attempted by the previous administration. On the point which has been raised by  Senator Drake-Brockman,  our Party is of the opinion that there is every reason for an examination of the relativity between third parties. We believe that there should be such an examination. Because we believe that, although the amendment does not cover the whole question of relativity in which we are interested - it is at least a token of the belief of a number of senators that there should be an examination of such relativity - we will support the Bill, but we will vote for the amendment moved by  Senator Drake-Brockman 
All kinds of allegations have been levelled against a variety of people in the course of this debate but nobody has named the really guilty men in regard to the Croatian question. They are David Lloyd George, Georges Clemenceau and Woodrow Wilson, the 3 men who dominated the conference which in 1919 parcelled out Europe, at the end of World War I. I think the history is instructive because so much has been said by Government supporters to suggest that the Croatian people are simply terrorists by nature and are engaging in crimes and terrorism without any cause or responsibility. In 1919 the Croatian people approached that conference in the belief that the war had been fought for the rights of small nations, and in the belief that the leaders of the democratic world at the time believed in their own slogan that government was by the consent of the governed. On that occasion it was determined that that slogan did not apply to small nations in central Europe. 
 Because the Serbian people had shown great heroism and had made great sacrifices it was determined that they should be rewarded without regard to the rights of other subject peoples. A country called Yugoslavia was formed. If you speak to the people there they will deny that they are Yugoslavs because Yugoslavia was formed by a forcible incorporation of large numbers of Croats, Albanians, Slovenes and Macedonians into a greater Serbian state. If you ask the people of that country whether they are Yugoslavs, they will say that they are Serbs, Albanians, Slovenes or Macedonians. When a country has forcibly incorporated within its boundaries people who do not belong to it, the foundation is laid not for peace but for war. 
The Croats were a western European people. They were forcibly placed under the rule of the Serbs who are an eastern European people. The Croats were largely Catholic but there was a sizeable minority of Moslems who had been left there from the days when they were ruled by the Turks. Therefore there were religious differences in the country which were just as bad as are found today in Londonderry and Belfast. In addition Croatia was a wealthy and prosperous country. Under the rule of the new government it was found that the wealth of Croatia was being drained off in the direction of the other portions of Yugoslavia. 
There was a discrimination to a degree against the Croats. In the 'American Union Journal' which I have here it is pointed out that last year 40 per cent of the unemployed in Yugoslavia were Croats although they are only 22 per cent of the people in the whole country. When it was determined that there should be some kind of a legal government in Croatia under a system of federalism, which Tito tried to introduce, a system was brought in under which, although the Croats were about 90 per cent of the people in Croatia and the others were only about 9 per cent, that 9 per cent should have equal electoral rights with the 90 per cent formed by Croats. The introduction of the system was accompanied by measures to destroy the Croat Press and the schools and culture of the Croats. The result was continual trouble and rebellion. In 1928 the leader of the Croatian parliamentarians and 2 of his chief supporters were shot dead in the Parliament. A few years later the king, the leader of the Serbs, was assassinated in France. 
I do not know, but in view of the action taken in 1919 by the' Treaty of Versailles the foundation was laid for that kind of event in the country which was formed under its terms. Continually there has been war. There have been murders and massacres in that country. The situation in Yugoslavia in the last year or two has become so serious that it is confidently predicted that following the death of  President  Tito, who is over 80 years of age, there will be a blood bath. Already, there has been grave trouble in Croatia and other parts of the country. There have been strikes of students and of workers. Not only have the anti-communist Croats been involved but also the Croatian Communist Party has been involved in attacks upon the Government of Yugoslavia, so much so that  President  Tito called the leaders of the Croatian Communist Party before him and informed them that they must all resign. He deprived them all of their positions. 
The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics has entered into this welter of trouble. It has never reconciled itself to the fact that Marshall Tito took Yugoslavia out of its sphere of influence. The result has been that the Soviet Union has offered assistance to the Croatian people in order to throw off the yoke of those who are running the country at the present time. 
I know from speaking to Croatians that they have been offered the assistance of the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union hopes that when Marshall Tito dies  it  will be able to take advantage of what follows. Probably - I would say almost certainly - Soviet armies will enter the country, and 1 predict that every endeavour will be made to incorporate it into the group of countries which at present are under the influence of the Soviet Union. 
I am not encouraging it. But if you shut your eyes to the fact that the people of Croatia have had genuine grievances and that no attempt has been made to remedy them, you shut your eyes to what is an obvious facet of human nature. When you treat people in that way, deprive them of their liberty, try to destroy their culture and deny them any adequate form of representation, obviously violent elements in that community will come to the front, as has happened here. 
There are between 150,000 and 200,000 Croats in Australia today. A very considerable number of them came to this country as refugees. Many of them fled from Croatia. Even after Marshal Tito set up his Government, large numbers continued to flee from Croatia as refugees. When they came to this country, having experienced communism and a denial of human rights, they set up a liberation organisation. It is not just the Croats who have done that. Every group that has come to Australia from a communist country has a liberation organisation. The Latvians, the Lithuanians, the Estonians, the Rumanians, the Hungarians and the Bulgarians even, all have their organisations which call for the freedom of their countries. It is quite legitimate that they should have such organisations, provided they do not resort to violence. 
I emphasise that provided they do not resort to violence they have the same right to live here and advocate the freedom of their countries as Mazzini, the Italian patriot, had in the middle years of the last century. They have the same right as Karl Marx who was allowed to live in Great Britain. They have the same right as Marshal Tito. When Tito was a young man he went to live in Russia. He formed a liberation organisation in Russia, organised for the purpose of overthrowing the then government of Yugoslavia. What Marshal Tito has asked through his ambassador in Australia is that we in Australia should prevent Croats here from doing what he did in Russia when he was a revolutionary and not the Marshal in charge of the government of his country. I repeat: There is nothing under our free democratic institution to stop people from forming an organisation to advocate the liberation of their country from communism, fascism or any other undesirable form of government. Most Croats in Australia are not terrorists. Ninety-nine per cent of them are as law-abiding as anybody in the Senate today. 
 In my view, the group to which honourable senators opposite have been referring would not even be 1 per cent at the most. But the attempt has been made by left wing forces in this country that have lines of communication with people such as  Dr J.  F. Cairns in the Australian Labor Party to present this issue as one in which the overwhelming number of the Croatian people are guilty of terrorism. They have been found guilty by association. 
Let us look at the facts. We have been given piles of documents which contain statements that the Croats have formed organisations of various titles directed to the liberation of their country. It has been said that certain people have been involved in bombings. Nothing has been presented to indicate that the people concerned in the bombings were engaged in those bombings for political reasons. On the contrary, in one of the most publicised cases the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Askin,  said that his advice from his police force was that that bombing was a personal bombing between 2 groups.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  you will notice that the members of the Australian Labor Party are interjecting. They are always quiet when one of their own supporters is speaking, but they always endeavour to prevent an opponent from being heard. Members of the Australian Labor Party believe in free speech for its own supporters only and for its own case only. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wilkinson)  - Order! Honourable senators will cease interjecting. 
It ill behoves them to talk about fascist methods when they employ the fascist methods of trying to drown out the voice of others. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTOrder! 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - 
Order!  Senator Byrne,  I am on my feet. I do not propose to hear you while I am standing. If you have a point of order to make or if you wish to make any statement I will call you when I sit down. I do not want  Senator McManus  to speak either while I am standing. I understand that  Senator Byrne  rose, but I rose at the same time. I now call  Senator Byrne. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - 

 Senator McManus, I am on my feet again. At the time  Senator McManus  was speaking I called the Senate to order. I was ignored. I was at the point of rising when  Senator Byrne  rose. I ask honourable senators to refrain from this considerable interjection which has been going on and allow  Senator McManus  to continue his speech. 
 Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I want to emphasise that no Party will oppose more firmly the use of violence for political or other reasons in this country than the Australian Democratic Labor Party. Where it can be proved that people have been guilty of violence or of inculcating violence, we will be as prepared as any other Party to take action in regard to that matter. Our party is opposed to what has gone, on in the Senate during the past 4 weeks. A principle of British and Australian justice has always been that people are innocent until they are found guilty, but on this occasion in this Parliament, under privilege, the Croatian people as a group and certain individuals have been declared guilty without trial. I was shocked to see some of the statements which appeared in the Press and which suggested that the word 'Croat' is synonymous with terrorist. We have heard organisations named. It has been said that there are 
Croat terrorist organisations. The AttorneyGenera) named certain organisations, but he provided mo link with any act of violence. He said that there have been acts of violence, these are Croat organisations, therefore Croat organisations are terrorist organisations which indulge in violence. 
The challenge has been issued - I issue it again - if he has evidence which will stand in court he should prosecute the people accused of violence, whether they are Croats or people of any other nationality. But do not find them guilty, as  Senator Murphy  attempted to when J asked him a question last week. I asked: 'Is it a fact that there is no tribunal or no court in this country to which these people whom you have attacked under the cloak of privilege can have resort to clear their names and to determine their innocence?'  Senator Murphy  replied: 'We will have to think about that'. In this country large numbers of people have been declared without trial to be guilty of terrorism. 

 Senator Jessop - I take a point of order.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I heard your ruling a while ago.  Senator Milliner  who is hiding behind his newspaper was interjecting persistently while we were trying to hear  Senator McManus.  I suggest that  Senator Milliner  is out of order. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wilkinson)  - Order!  Senator Milliner  was not intruding on my hearing of  Senator McManus's  contribution to the debate.  Senator Jessop,  I point out to you that as you are in close proximity to  Senator McManus  your loudspeaker is not switched on. Therefore, you do not have the assistance of the  speaker.  That is why  Senator McManus  sounds a bit fainter to you. That is part of the set up here. I ask  Senator McManus  to continue. 
I point out as an example of the manner in which the Croat people have been smeared the statement which appeared in a considerable number of newspapers and which obviously emanated from the office of the Attorney-General to the effect that it had evidence that 200 Croat terrorists were on their way to Yugoslavia to indulge in violence and terrorism. I asked the AttorneyGenera! about this statement. He said: 'I never made any such statement, and I do not know who did'. I have sufficient regard for Australian pressmen to say that if they said that they had been told that 200 terrorists were on their way to Yugoslavia they got it from some person close to the AttorneyGeneral and in whom they had confidence. 
I have spoken to some Croats and I have said: "This Government says that it intends to probe the whole matter.' My advice to them was to co-operate with the Government in probing it. Their request is for some form of justifiable or reputable inquiry to be held at which they can appear, examine the charges against them and give evidence to prove that they are innocent. I believe that they are entitled to that, because the charges that have been made against them have been made in the Senate. The charges have been made under privilege, and Australian law does not allow any action to be taken against the people who are attacking the Croats. They ask firstly, for the opportunity to clear their names and, secondly, that when the inquiry is held they be given the opportunity to put the evidence that is in their hands of the existence in this country of a counter-revolutionary agent provocateur organisation. They would like the opportunity to give evidence against  Mr Jurjevic  and Zlatko Lazic who they say is masquerading in this country as a diplomat at the Yugoslav Embassy but who is the representative in this country of tt e Yugoslav secret police. The request of the C oats is on 2 bases - firstly, that they be given he chance to clear their names and, secondly, hat they be given the opportunity to give &lt; evidence about the secret police organisations which have been here and which have been responsible for a certain degree of the violence. 
I have heard about the groups of young fellows who went to Yugoslavia. I have the greatest doubt in my mind as to the bona fides of some of the people who organised them to go there. Why was it that these young fellows who thought that they were going over to free their country could have been organised to go to Yugoslavia, and when they crossed the border the police were sitting there waiting for them? The police knew when they were coming, where they were coming, what they intended to do and everything about them. I regard with the utmost suspicion the activities in this country of the Yugoslav secret police who have been sent here, in many cases, as agents provocateurs. I appreciate the view of the Croatian people that they want an opportunity to give evidence before a proper tribunal to show that these people are responsible to  a  large degree for a good deal of the violence. 
The only other matter to which  1  refer is the matter of violence. Let us not pretend that the record m this country in regard to violence is clear or that the Croats are the only people who resort to that kind of thing.  1  live in Melbourne. The Federated Ships Painters and Dockers Union of Australia is a trade union. The Australian Council of Trade Unions has control over it. The union is affiliated with the Australian Labor Party. Yet for several years there has been a reign of terror in that union. Persons have been murdered in full view of  30  or  40  people, and not one of those people said he saw what happened. People have disappeared. Today members of that union are living in homes around which high walls with barbed wire entanglements at the top have been erected. They have savage Alsatian dogs to protect them. That union would be in the No.  1  position in this country today so far as violence is concerned. What about when the South African rugby team came to Australia? Some of the most determined advocates of law and order and some of the most determined opponents of terrorism and violence were to be seen urging on a lot of other people to commit acts of terrorism and violence. In relation to Vietnam, people said: 'Do not import outside troubles here'. Who imported the Vietnam troubles here? There is no doubt who did. 
Violence is one of the worst things in any country. The Government, whether it is Labor of liberal, is entitled to the full support of each party, including our Party, if it desires to take strong action against violence. I believe that the laws in this country have always been strong enough to deal with violence. This country has never before had to deal with violence. It has never had to issue numerous attacks under shelter of privilege upon people and then leave them in the position of being unable to defend themselves or to prove themselves innocent. This country has never before introduced the secret police system of going to people's homes at 5 a.m. without a warrant, kicking at the door, entering and saying: 'We are going to search your home'. 

 Senator Mulvihill - You did it for draft resisters. (Government senators interjecting) - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wilkinson)  - Order! I have called "Order*  3  times and I have been disobeyed. I shall not call 'Order' again. Will both sides of the Senate realise that this debate has to be conducted with a certain amount of decorum.  Senator McManus,  you have  3  minutes remaining for your speech. 
I was one of those - and I believe my Party held this view too - who objected to that kind of thing being done, whether it was done to draft resisters or whether it was done to Croats. I do not believe that we in this country have room for that kind of action. I do not believe that we want the secret police method of kicking down people's doors at night, entering without any authority and claiming the right to search their homes. When the Government did that, it proved the truth of the statement which  Mr Whitlam  made in Adelaide last year when he said that he had to admit that there was a streak of authoritarianism inside his own Party. 
I believe that our laws are quite adequate and that our police force is quite adequate. We have not just one security organisation, ASIO, but we have about  3  security organisations. I think when the situation of adopting this kind of security police approach was reached with the Attorney-General of our country raiding his own security organisation, we made ourselves the laughing stock of the world. We produced a situation where no security organisation in any other country will ever trust any confidential information to the Australian security service because it has been destroyed by its own Government. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Miss Elizabeth Reid, who has just been appointed as adviser to the Prime Minister, states in a Press statement today that she will work for the abolition of laws against abortion, prostitution, homosexuality and marihuana, and that these will be some of her aims in her job with the Prime Minister. I ask: Did the Prime Minister appoint Miss Reid for the purposes and duties stated by her? 
 I desire to ask a question of the Attorney-General on a matter that I believe concerns the important subject of human rights and civil liberties. Serious charges have been made against organisations and individuals by the Attorney-General. They have been made under the privilege of Parliament. Therefore those against whom the charges have been made cannot take legal action to clear their names. In another place the Prime Minister has just refused to set up a royal commission before which such people might have been able to appear in order to clear their names. I ask: Does the AttorneyGeneral not feel that citizens of the Commonwealth who have been charged in this way have a right to put their case to some tribunal in order to prove their innocence? I referred to this matter on a previous occasion and the Attorney-General said that the matter was worthy of thought. What was the result of the Government's thinking on this matter? 
I did not force the question of onus of proof to a division because it was indicated that we would not get the support of the Senate. I am still not happy about that question. I thank the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  for what he has done. I think what he did is very helpful and that it will work out all right.  Senator Mulvihill  made some reference to the need for the Croatian people to be sacrificed for the good of Europe. I would refer the honourable senator to page 711 of the book Roosevelt and Hopkins' by Robert Shearwood in which he quoted  President  Franklin Roosevelt as saying that he had said repeatedly that it was ridiculous to have forced 2 antagonistic nations like Croatia and Serbia into one country, and that in his view after the war Serbia should have been a separate country and Croatia should have been placed under a trusteeship. 
I desire to ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. My question refers to the committee system of the Senate of which we are all so proud, particularly in regard to its achievements in the last 2 years. I ask: Can anything be done to facilitate dealing with a number of proposed references that appear on the notice paper, some of which were given as far back  as February, and which refer to committees which, although already constituted, have been unable to take any action? These committees have attached to them highly paid and highly efficient staffs who are not able to take action because nothing has been done about the references? In view of the obvious fact that the committee system will fall into some disrepute if this continues, can some action be taken to facilitate dealing with those references? 
The principles upon which extradition is based are, of course, unexceptional. None of us would want a criminal to escape retribution for his crimes by fleeing to a foreign country. Extradition within the framework of the Commonwealth countries to which  Senator Greenwood  has referred has worked quite satisfactorily. In normal times and in normal circumstances it would continue to work satisfactorily but we have to face the fact that in some respects we do not live in normal times. I think it is a regrettable coincidence that this legislation relating to extradition comes before the Parliament in an atmosphere which has been created by the events of the past couple of weeks to which I do not intend to refer particularly in the course of this debate. But we have to realise that what has happened - the allegations of terrorism and other allegations which have been made - has inspired in the minds of many Australian citizens and Australian residents of overseas origin a fear that they may be sent back to their country of origin. 
I know that the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  will disagree that in the case of this Bill there is any intention of doing that kind of thing. I know that the Minister for Immigration,  Mr Grassby,  has endeavoured to alleviate the fears of these people by suggesting that only in cases which are proved may action be taken. But I believe that it is necessary to point out that the mere mention of extradition or deportation at the present time puts many Australian citizens of overseas origin and many Australian residents of overseas origin into a state of panic. I have been interviewed by some people who have assured me that sooner than be returned to their country of origin they would be prepared to take their own lives. They fear that extradition may be used to take them back to their former country for trial for political purposes or offences. While there is a schedule of offences for which they may be returned, they insist - I think it is a reasonable proposition - that evidence can be manufactured, that it would be very difficult for a man who has come to this country from a country abroad to obtain persons to give evidence in those countries if it is against the wishes of the particular government that he do so. Therefore they feel extremely concerned about issues related to extradition and deportation. I think that we are entitled to try to alleviate their fears. 
This matter or a mutter akin to it was discussed on 11th April 1961 when 1 moved the adjournment of the Senate for the purpose of discussing the question of the increasing threat to the rights of migrants from communist governed states who desired to live their lives in Australia in security under the rule of law. 1 moved that motion for the adjournment of the Senate because of a number of cases in which communist countries had sought the extradition to within their own boundaries of persons against whom they alleged crimes but against whom they presented no evidence. The particular case concerned was one in which the Soviet Union sought, although it did not have an extradition treaty with Australia, the extradition of Ervin Viks, an Estonian, who pointed out that no evidence had been put forward that he was the guilty person. He was accused of war crimes. He denied" the charge and, furthermore, he denied that he was the Ervin Viks to whom the charges allegedly referred. On investigation of the case  Sir Garfield  Barwick refused to permit his extradition. 
It was revealed that this request was part of an existing pattern. At the same time the Soviet Government had sought the extradition from Great Britain of 2 Estonians, alleging war crimes but giving no evidence. The Government of Great Britain refused their extradition. In the same year, after a legal battle extending over 8 years, the British courts refused the request of the Government of Yugoslavia for the extradition of a Croatian who alleged that he was being brought home to be tried for political crimes. At the same time, I received correspondence from a lawyer from as far away as Iceland who informed me that the Soviet Union had requested the extradition of certain Estonians who were prominent in anti-Soviet activities in that country and that the Government of Iceland also had refused their extradition. Only 6 years before there had been another case in Australia which was brought before the Senate by the late  Senator Cole  and in which a Yugoslav or a Croat named Rancic was sought for extradition by the Yugoslav Government. The Australian Government, having investigated the case, refused to permit him to be extradited. In that case Australia was able to refuse the request because there was an escape clause that neither Government need necessarily grant extradition if it was sought. But  Sir John  Latham made a strong comment on the case when he said that although Rancic would remain free there was no guarantee that similar demands by communist countries for extradition of persons resident in Austraia would have such a happy ending. 
At that time the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs called upon the Government to take action in regard to the extradition law because it felt considerably concerned over what had happened. The Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs made the following statement: 
The Australian network of extradition treaties is by no means complete, and the abrogation of our treaties with Communist-controlled countries would not therefore occasion any significant change in our capacity to prevent Australian criminals from escaping punishment by flight abroad; and this is especially true insofar as we could scarcely expect such Communist-controlled countries to perform their reciprocal obligations in good faith, unless it suited their own particular purposes at the time. 
The Foreign Affairs Committee therefore recommended that all existing extradition treaties with communist-controlled countries be cancelled and that legislation be enacted to make it clear that no person would be liable to extradition under any treaty made subsequently to the Act if the offence was of a political character or, if the alleged offence was not of a political character, unless it was proved to the satisfaction of the magistrate or court before whom the accused was brought on habeas corpus that the requisition for his surrender had not been made with a view to trying or punishing him for an offence of a political character. The situation in relation to the Australian Government was laid down by  Sir Garfield  Barwick in these words: 
It is the practice of Australia to refuse to surrender an Australian citizen, even if an extradition treaty exists. In the instant case,  Mr Viks- 
He is the man who was formerly from Estonia - is an Australian citizen, having been naturalised in the year 1957. I should also point out that extradition treaties to which Australia is a party contain a further limitation, namely that no surrender should be made if the crime alleged by the requesting country is a political crime in the international sense in which those words are used. 
Then in referring to political crimes  Sir Garfield  Barwick went on: 
This limitation applies to Australian residents as well as to Australian citizens. 
He continued: 
Broadly, speaking, crimes of a political character, for the purpose of the extradition system, include crimes committed in the course of conflict between contending political groups or organisations. Breaches of the laws of war committed by commanders in the field would scarcely come under wis heading. 
But he pointed to the confusion that can sometimes exist in the law in these matters when he said: 
But the position of acts performed in the purported exercise of government authority is doubtful. There are cases in which it has been held that acts so done do not justify extradition under the ordinary treaties and statutes. Partly for this reason special international arrangements and recommendations were made at the conclusion of the World War with respect to the surrender and trial of war criminals. 
Of course, in any extradition treaty a government must have regard to the Declaration of Human Rights. Article 10 of that Declaration states: 
Everyone is entitled in full equality, to a fair and public hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal in the determination of his rights and obligations and of any criminal charge against him. 
The statement by citizens who have come to this country and are opposed to communism is that if they are extradited to a communist country they will not receive a just trial in accordance with the terms of the Declaration of Human Rights. Furthermore, Article 14 of the Declaration states: 
Every one has the right to seek and enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution. 
I believe that we in Australia stand for that principle. As I have said before, I do not purport in any way to defend those who may be guilty of crimes and against whom adequate evidence is presented. However, I have the gravest reservations about taking action which can in any way enable a communist country under the guise of seeking to prosecute a man for one of the crimes set out in the schedule, a communist country which can manufacture the evidence without the least difficulty and can then put the man in this country, who has to face up to that evidence, in the position that he has nobody in this country to whom he can turn as a witness and he will be unable to find any witness to appear for him in the communist country because the people there will be afraid of the government. I believe therefore that this kind of legislation should be approached with the utmost care. 
I want to quote a statement that was made when the Soviet Government was attempting to extradite people from the Baltic States and Croatia without putting forward any evidence, merely an accusation that they were wanted. Aleksander Kutt, the  Chairman  of the Committee for a Free Estonia, who was well known throughout the world during the period in which he was representing his country said: 
During the eighteen years of Soviet occupation of Estonia the Soviet regime has caused the destruction of about 90,000 Estonians, or 8 per cent of their prewar number in Estonia. Certainly the judiciary of this regime cannot be considered a proper authority for establishing what may or may not have happened in Estonia either under the Soviet or Nazi occupation if justice should prevail. 
The present Soviet extradition requests are aimed at terrorising the refugees. Moreover, the present show trials in Estonia of which there are more to come in addition to a recent one this month are quite obviously designed to implant fear in the population of Estonia against any change of the present regime. 
He went on to say that those trials, as  a  result of which the fantastic number of 125,000 persons allegedly had been executed, had been conducted for that purpose. 
When I moved this motion calling on the Australian Government to take the strongest possible action against any proposal to extradite an Australian citizen or resident, particularly to a communist country under the circumstances suggested - where no evidence was presented - my motion received strong support from  Senator McKenna,  a former Attorney-General and, like  Senator Murphy,  a lawyer of repute.  Senator McKenna  voiced very strong criticism of the then Government upon one point He said: 
Under the present extradition law, a person who has come to our country from another country and who is charged with an ordinary offence - one of those listed in the schedule of the Extradition Act - is compelled to prove that his extradition is not sought in respect of thai crime - it may be quite a fictitious one - but for some political offence for which his accusers abroad want to get him and punish him. He has to prove affirmatively that he is wanted for a political offence. Where is his evidence? How could he ever prove it, with the onus of proof upon him? 

 Senator McKenna then said that particular attention had been drawn to that point in the report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs, and he strongly criticised the Government because it had not legislated to place the onus of proof upon the government which was charging the particular individual and seeking his extradition to his home country. I would be grateful if the Attorney-General would assure my mind on that point. Is the situation in law as stated by  Senator McKenna,  that the onus of proof is on the person resident here or on the Australian citizen in this country? Or should the onus of proof not be upon the government which has at its command all the resources of a police state, money and everything else that is needed to present its case while the particular individual in this country who is being charged may be without resources or, because of the fear of people in his home country of government action against them, may not bc able to obtain evidence to put his own case? As I have said, I would appreciate an assurance from the Attorney-General before I am called upon to vote on this Bill on whether the onus of proof does lie upon the individual whose extradition is being sought, because it that were so it would be absolutely impossible for me to vote for a provision of that character. I would hope that the Australian Labor Party which has fought many notable battles against imposing the onus of proof on individuals would join me in that particular case. 
We have had extradition treaties with a number of communist countries. We had none with the Soviet Union, we had one with Hungary, which had an escape clause by which neither country had to hand over people if it did not want to do so; and as far as I know we have had treaties - unless they have been repealed - with Albania, Czechoslovakia, Poland, Romania and Yugoslavia. The 
Government at the time made strong declarations that it would not permit any Australian citizen to be extradited, and that no Australian resident would be extradited for a political crime. But as I have pointed out, a person whose extradition is being sought has obvious difficulties confronting him 'in getting' evidence to defend himself.  Sir Robert  Menzies, to whom the matter was referred at the time, made a statement in which he indicated that the position was satisfactory. He said: 
Under present circumstances the Australian Government has to be convinced . . . that the application from Eastern European countries is bona fide and not a pretext to obtain custody of an individual for other purposes. 
That is, possibly to try him for a political crime. But I believe, particularly since this legislation is designed to change the law and particularly because we are now recognising so many communist countries, that the opportunities for this kind of action to be taken will be greatly increased. The possibilities will arise increasingly of demands from communist countries for the extradition of people against whom they allege crimes of which they may or may not be guilty. They may be wanted for another reason. But in view of the fact that we are now recognising a large number of communist countries, the possibility of dangers from this point of view becomes all the greater. There is one factor which may be claimed to give Parliament some control over the situation. It is that extradition treaties have to be presented to Parliament. In those circumstances, I suppose that they would be open to review in the Parliament. But at the same time it would be infinitely better if we could obtain assurance that the Act, as it stands, is ironclad and watertight in regard to the trial of people for political offences. 
I am not happy about the provision that a person may be extradited for one offence and then the government in that country to which he is extradited may say: 'We would like to try this person for something else*. It would request the permission of, say, Australia to do this. I would say that some communist countries, having got the man in their clutches, if they wanted to try him for something else, would not bother about the niceties of asking what the Australian Government at the particular time thought. I am unhappy about that and I hope to be given some information that will reassure my mind that this clause may not be used to get a man out of Australia and into a communist country on the pretext that he is to be tried for one of the offences shown here. I would have no objection if he were to be tried only for one of these offences. But what I am afraid of is that this provision may be used to get him out of Australia on trumped up evidence and then deal with him for some other offence. I point out that special exceptions are made in the case of genocide. Genocide can cover a multitude of sins. An overseas government could say simply that a man belonged to an organisation in his country which was responsible for the deaths of a large number of people. Therefore, it would state that it wanted to try him for genocide. He may have been only a pawn in the game. I think that that is an extremely wide provision which, as I said, could cover a multitude of sins. I think that lawyers would experience a good deal of pleasure in arguing it backwards and forwards. 
As to the other items in the Bill, as I say, I have no objection to the principle of extradition. I think that in principle it cannot be argued against. What can be argued against are the circumstances in which it may be applied. The attention of the Australian Government was drawn in 1961 to the dangers which may arise of people being taken out of Australia purely for political purposes on various pretexts. I felt that it was my duty to make a similar declaration to the Government of the danger upon this occasion. I do not do that from the point of view of defending a man who has been guilty of murder without political implication or guilty of any other crimes without political implications. But in the kind of atmosphere we live in people will make all kinds of efforts to obtain the control of persons for political reasons. We in Australia have to satisfy our own people and our own migrants that nothing will be done which will render them liable for trial under a government in whose democratic principles they do not believe and whose ken they chose to leave and become refugees in this country. 
I conclude by saying again that I hope the Attorney-General will satisfy my mind on this question of on whom the onus of proof rests. I hope that he will make it clear that there will be the firmest stance and the utmost protection in our courts against people being taken out of this country for trial for political reasons. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party is in the position that its manpower is limited. We gave consideration to making a request for representation on the proposed committee. But we have decided to proceed with it. The comments made by  Senator Gair  in regard to the committee and its prospects of success were such that we would hardly be expected to want to be represented on it. (t may be remembered that  Senator Gair  pointed out that in his view the committee would not have any power to do anything constructive. He also pointed out that in his view it was a face saving device designed to save the Government from the charge that it had not carried out its promise to do something about prices. In these circumstances, we will support the Country Party's claim to representation on the committee but we will not seek representation on it. We hope that it will achieve something, but we cannot see it achieving anything. 
Amendment to proposed amendment agreed to. 
Amendment, as amended, agreed to. 

 Senator DOUGLAS MCCLELLAND (New South Wales - Minister for the Media) - (2.33) - 1  understand that, as a result of the  2  decisions now taken by the Senate, it is necessary for me to move another amendment. I move: 
At end of the third paragraph of the motion moved by the Special Minister of State add the words: with a request for the concurrence of that House in the Senate's modifications of the Resolution transmilted to the Senate by the House. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Poke)  - The question is that the amendment proposed by  Senator Douglas  McClelland be agreed to. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
The question now is that the original motion, as amended, be agreed to. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Democratic Labor Party will support the motion. 
I am glad that  Senator Poyser  is such a good judge.. We are not impressed by the argument that these issues should be regarded as decided because the motion of no confidence in  Senator Murphy  was carried last Thursday. An examination of the 2 motions shows that the present motion covers much wider grounds than and includes other and different issues from the no confidence motion. For that reason, in our view, the present motion deserves support. I will not cover the. ground that has been covered in previous debates. I shall not be referring to questions about  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Greenwood. 
As justification for the attitude of my Party I mention that 1 have been approached by a representative group of Croatian citizens with 2 requests. They ask that they be given the opportunity to appear before some inquiry or tribunal to prove their innocence of the allegations made against them under privilege. Honourable senators will remember that on 2 occasions at question time I have asked  Senator Murphy  whether there is any tribunal to which those who have been charged under privilege or the organisations which have been charged under privilege can appeal to defend their innocence.  Senator Murphy  has said that in his view there is no tribunal to which they can go and that the matter is worth thinking about.I have waited some time to hear the results of that thought. No tribunal has been suggested. Now the opportunity is presented to us to have a tribunal of 3 judges to determine the truth in regard to this highly controversial issue. 
It has been said that the Parliament has acted wrongly. It has been said that we have wrongly accused and have wrongly charged certain people and that the allegations have come from both sides. I have heard it said that the public mind is confused. What better way to clear the public mind and to prove whether there are terrorist organisations and, if so, what they are, and what better way to prove whether the people who have been charged are guilty or innocent, than to have an inquiry before 3 judges? I am surprised that members of the legal profession should show such opposition to a proposal to allow 3 judges, in accordance with ordinary rules of law, to determine what is a highly controversial issue. 
The deputation that saw me made 2 requests. The first was that there should be a tribunal such as this before which they could appear to clear their names and the name of their organisation. The second request - I think that it is reasonable - was that there should be such a tribunal before which they could appear and, as allegations have been made against them, sponsored by the Yugoslav secret police in a number of instances, be given the opportunity to present evidence against the work in this country of the Yugoslav secret police. To me, that is eminently fair. They have been attacked by certain people. They desire to present evidence against the bona fides of those who have attacked them. If this matter were tried in a court of law, they would have that right. But, because the Attorney-General, having charged them, says that no tribunal is to be made available where they can prove their innocence or even defend themselves, I support this motion. 
I support this motion which, if carried, will mean that 3 judges, in accordance with the rule of law, will say whether  Senator Murphy  is right.  Senator Greenwood  is right or anybody else in this place is right. They will get the facts and then the Australian people will know. 
I am not afraid of such an inquiry. It is the honourable senator's side which is afraid of the truth. I want the truth. I am prepared to let 3 judges determine the truth. But honourable senators on the Government side say: 'We will not allow the judges to determine the truth'. All I say is that we have come to a pretty sorry state in this, country when the Prime Minister's answer to a request that, on an issue such as this, 3 judges shall determine the truth, is a smart aleck answer to this effect: 'I won't have it, because I want to spare the Opposition'. We would expect something more responsible from the Prime Minister of this country. 
Here is an issue which has been obscured in all the welter of charge and countercharge. That is the issue of civil rights. It is the issue that ought to be determined by an inquiry such as that proposed. I have noticed that newspapers such as the 'Australian', which are no friends of us or anybody on this side of the Senate and which, in the course of the last election campaign, by their support assisted in the election of the present Government, have said definitely that there ought to be a judicial inquiry to determine the truth. The leading article in yesterday's 'Australian' was the most critical that I have ever seen of a political party, except for the ones that the Australian' wrote against the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
This question of civil rights is important. The Council for Civil Liberties, which is in no way involved with the DLP and which  nobody would accuse of operating on a political basis, as reported in this week's edition of the 'Bulletin' gave an interview to one of that journal's reporters in which the gravest concern was expressed about the procedures adopted in the case of the raids on a number of Australian citizens and residents. We are told. 
Members of the Council for Civil Liberties pose these questions: What information did the Commonwealth Police act on in obtaining warrants if it was not as their Commissioner claims supplied by ASK or  Senator Murphy? 
The Council for Civil Liberties asked further: 
Were there, in fact, enough warrants to go round? On what 'reasonable suspicion' did the police divine that goods such as bolts of cloth, typewriters, tape recorders and adding machines on the premises of citizens they raided were stolen property? 
What evidence did they have that they were stolen property? The Council for Civil Liberlies also asked: 
What redress have the innocent? What future protection? 
The Council says that it is worried about the subsequent charges. Eighty raids were made. Something has been said about 68 of them. Nothing has been said about the other 12. Apparently they were lost. The Council for Civil Liberties states further that, of the 13 people charged, 3 were not charged on political questions at all. They were alleged to be in possession of stolen goods and one was charged with having obstructed police in the execution of their duty. The Council for Civil Liberties goes on to say that it is standard procedure with some policemen to insure against actions for wrongful arrest by picking up an odd radio as suspected stolen goods when making the arrest, and later the police ask the person concerned to sign a release on the basis that if he does they will not proceed against him. Those are the views of the Council for Civil Liberties. The article goes on to say: 
A particular concern in the case of national groups such as the Croats is that refugees from police - state administrations with an incomplete grasp of the English language are unlikely to know or stand on their civil rights in Australia. 'It is easy and tempting for the authorities to abuse their powers in situations of this kind,' said one Council for Civil Liberties barrister, 'and they should therefore as police correspondingly be particularly careful that the proper forms are observed.' 
One of the proper forms is not to raid the home of a citizen without producing a warrant. Evidence has been offered by  Senator 
Hannan and others that in a number of cases the police walked into people's homes and did not produce warrants. 
As an example of the need for an inquiry in the interests of the civil rights of Australian citizens, I wish to read a sworn declaration. This is the statutory declaration sworn by Anna  Kristo  of Princess Street, Bexley, New South Wales. Her statutory declaration states: 
1 am an Australian citizen and I am 42 years of age. I was born in Croatia, arrived in Australia in 1960. was married here in 1964 and naturalised in 1966. 
I came to Australia because I was a member of a family which has been persecuted by the Tito regime since it came to power. 
Neither my husband nor I are members of any political organisation. I have never taken part in politics nor in any demonstrations. My husband was until 1969 a member of H.M. 
That is a Croatian social organisation. The statutory declaration continues:  We have both visited the Tomaslav Club  at  Cabramatta from time to time. We are both members of the Croatian Soccer Club. 
One of my brothers was Josip Senic He is now dead. I last saw him in 1969. In March 1972 New South Wales policemen came to my home and asked me if 1 wanted to take delivery of my brother's body They said he had been killed in West Germany. 
I think honourable senators will find in one of the documents tabled by  Senator Murphy  that ASIO states that it has been informed that this man was killed in West Germany. The statutory declaration continues: 
I had already heard from my sister in Sweden that the head of the body was missing. I told the police to let the body stay in Europe. My sister in Sweden subsequently made arrangements for burial. 
A German court made an open finding on who was responsible for the death of my brother in the early hours of the morning of 9th March 1972 from gunshot wounds. My brother had been a lifelong opponent of Tito and I assume that my brother's death was at the hands of his UDBa agents. 
That is the secret police agents. Now I turn to the raid. She said: 
At  7.0 a.m. on Sunday morning last, 1st April 1973,  I  had  a  ring from one of my tenants at  a  home my husband and I own  at  Chippendale. Ha said  S  carloads of police had called  at  3 a.m. asking for my husband and  I.  (He only had my telephone number,  not  my  address.) 
Yes. She continued: At about 8 a.m.  3 carloads of police arrived  at our home at  Bexley. 
Honourable senators on the Government side are interjecting. They represent the Party  which has always said that above all it stands for the civil rights of citizens. Listen to them now. This affidavit continues: 
Speaking in English they said they wished to search for documents and to keep what they found. My husband, cousin and I were kept in the dining room of my home during the whole time they were there except for toilet visits and my getting dressed. When they arrived I was still in my pyjamas and was not able to get dressed for another half an hour. 
I was accompanied to the toilet by a policeman who waited outside the door. My husband was also accompanied and the door was left open. They left at approximately 1 p.m. and took my husband and I, my cousin aged 22 years, and my 2 children-- 
Listen to this - my 2 children aged 8 and 4 to an office near Central Railway. They took with us nearly every book and paper in the house including telephone books, my husband's business papers, taxation returns, his builder's licence and 2 letters they found in the roof. One of these letters was from a member of my family warning that visitors coming to Sydney from Yugoslavia as members of the Croatian Matisa were probably members of UBDa. Tito's secret police. In approximately October 1971 4 such men visited Sydney and asked questions about my brother. 
We were at their office until about 4 p.m. We were offered coffee but no food. My children were given biscuits. 
Neither my husband nor I were charged, however, all documents have been retained by the police. 
I have been reading from a statutory declaration. I do not apologise for demanding that there be a tribunal before which people, treated in the manner in which the author of that statutory declaration claims to have been treated, can appear, say what happened to them and take action to ensure that the right authorities in this country will stop that sort of thing from happening again. 
Reference has been made to the UDBa. Because of the statements made to me by the Croatian deputation, which I felt I should test and not necessarily accept, the reference section in the Parliamentary Library was asked by a member of  Senator Gair's  staff, on behalf of our Party, to seek information about  Mr Bijedic  who visited Australia recently. We also asked for information about this entire question. The reply given to the Parliamentary Library by the Department of Foreign Affairs is amazing. Our Department of Foreign Affairs has an Embassy in Yugoslavia which sends regular reports home to Australia. The reply given to the Parliamentary Library is: 
We have noted reports that there may be a secret police in Yugoslavia, but how it operates and under whose control it is, frankly we don't know.' 
Yugoslavia is a communist country and our Department of Foreign Affairs does not know whether it has secret police, and it does not know who controls them if it does have them. Our Department does not know anything. I hope that when the Department of Foreign Affairs supplies that reply the officer concerned sent for a basin of water and solemnly washed his hands. I think I should helpthe Department of Foreign Affairs because it has been unable to find out anything about secret police anywhere. The letters UNDBA are commonly used among Croatians and Yugoslavs to represent the secret police of that country. The literal translation of the words of which they are the initials is 'security interior police' or 'secret police of the state'. The name UDBA was officially discarded in 1964 and the new name adopted was SDS but in colloquial terms today it is still referred to as the UDBA. 
There are 3 Yugoslav intelligence services. One is the ordinary intelligence service consisting of 2 branches," the co-ordination department in the foreign ministry, which operates under diplomatic cover, and department 2 of the general staff military intelligence. Then there is the security service which conducts counter-revolutionary activity and espionage. Finally, there is a military security service. The non-military intelligence services which operate in countries like Australia are, firstly, the co-ordination department of the foreign ministry which probably consists of 200 to 300 officers, and secondly, the SDS which engages in activities normal to an internal security service. 
Referring now to the method under which it operates in Australia, the agents in Australia probably work for the 2 non-military intelligence services. How do they operate? They operate in 2 ways. Firstly, they may be attached to diplomatic services and operate from there, and secondly, they pose as ordinary immigrants and then operate among the migrant population. The activities of the Yugoslav secret police in this country are as follows: Firstly, the compilation of information about migrant people in Australia and the activities of nationalist organisations; secondly, obtaining photographs of leaders and prominent members of those organisations; thirdly, the infiltrating of nationalist organisations; fourthly, the creation of dissension within those organisations; fifthly, the harrassment of individuals; sixthly, circulating false or misleading information to the Australian police or security authorities; seventhly, discrediting religious leaders of national communities, and finally, acting as agents provocateurs in the migrant community and its organisations. 
It is interesting to know something about UDBA, the Yugoslav secret police.  Mr Bijedic  came to Australia and was reported to us to be merely a parliamentarian or a politician. According to a cable report from Belgrade which appeared in the Melbourne 'Herald', part of  Mr Bijedic's  duties after World War II as  Deputy  Minister of the Interior was to direct the secret police. I think it is understandable that the Croatian people were not exactly fans of  Mr Bijedic. 
He did not deny that he had been in the secret police; he was proud of it. The next matter with which I want to deal- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! I think that  Senator Greenwood's  words are justified. In this place we try to keep order. The Chair has its responsibilities but equally senators have responsibilities to see that the Standing Orders are obeyed. I have called for order but I have not attained that degree of orderliness that I think is justified in this instance.  Senator McManus  is not being provocative. In the main he has been reading from factual documents. There is no justification for the continued and noisy interjections. A certain number of interjections have been permitted, as a practice, in the Senate, but there are limits and I am warning the Senate that I think the limits have been, to some degree, transgressed. I trust that we will have more orderly conduct from now on. 
I have based what I have had to say, firstly, on the necesssity  to uphold civil rights in this country and, secondly, on the necessity to give people who have been charged under privilege and whom the Attorney-General has informed me have no redress, no way of proving their innocence, no tribunal to which they can go, an opportunity to appear before a tribunal. As I have said, there should be a tribunal to which they can go. I have given evidence in regard to the activities of the Yugoslav secret police in this country. I have declined to be associated with any evidence in this matter unless the persons concerned were prepared to make sworn declarations and to give their names and addresses. They are prepared to do so. This involves a fairly courageous act, particularly where people may have relatives still in Yugoslavia. But I have not been prepared to accept evidence unless the persons were prepared to give sworn declarations, and I think that is the right thing. I will not read all of the sworn declarations I have here, but I am prepared, if a motion is moved, to lay them on the table. 
I am very pleased. I will be happy if they are laid on the table and tested, as they should be. I will just indicate the general tenor of the documents and then I will be very happy, if  Senator Mulvihill  will move this way, to table them. 
I said that I am prepared to do something,  Senator Mulvihill  says that it is the right thing for me to do this, but  Senator Poyser  says that I am grandstanding. If I am grandstanding,  Senator Mulvihill  should say that he does not want the documents tabled. You cannot have it both ways. Either you are right or  Senator Mulvihill  is right. Will you please both go outside and decide what the story is going to be and then come back and tell us. Then we will all know. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator McManus  will proceed to address the Chair. 
I am sorry.  Mr Deputy President.  The first affidavit is by Barbara Binicke of 504 Swanston Street, Carlton, in 
Victoria. She states that she came to this country from Europe where her husband was a member of a political party named the Croatian Peasant Party which was opposed to the Ustasha, as  Senator Mulvihill  would know. After they came here her husband continued as a supporter of the Croatian Peasant Party and at all times they have been in favour of Croatian independence. She makes a sworn declaration about the attempt to enter her home by people whom she believes were members of the Yugoslav secret police. 
The second sworn declaration is by Todor Ivanov of 50 Relowe Crescent, Box Hill North. He states that he is a naturalised Australian of Bulgarian descent. During 1949 and 1950 when he lived in a camp in the city of Nis in Yugoslavia attempts were made to make use of him, he said, by officers of the Yugoslav secret police, and he gives the details. The next sworn declaration is by Tom Bratusha of Canberra. He says that when he went to the Yugoslav Embassy for the purpose of giving up his Yugoslav citizenship he was interviewed by a  Mr Lazic.  He says that  Mr Lazic  made attacks upon his father, said that his father talked too much and showed him a file of photographs of persons whom he presumed- 
I suppose that talking too much is something for which we all can be dealt with. At any rate,  Mr Bratusha  gives a sworn declaration about information which convinced him that there was a Yugoslav secret police organisation operating in the Yugoslav Embassy. There is another declaration by Ljubomir Vuina of Flat 4, Edward Street, Bondi. He gives evidence of the activities in Yugoslavia, particularly, surrounding the killing of a man named Nikola Raspudic which he ascribes to the people whom I have mentioned. There is a sworn declaration by Ante Gnjec of Macquarie in the Australian Capital Territory. In the course of the sworn declaration he gives evidence of how, when he went on a visit to Yugoslavia, attempts were made to force him to become an operator of the Yugoslav secret police. Finally - and I do not table this one - on the other issue of the raids there is a reference to a statutory declaration which  Senator Hannan  has and which I presume he would make available in the event of this inquiry being held. 
I know. I have been promised a number of other declarations. But 1 want to make it clear that I will not present any evidence unless it is sworn and is therefore subject to the laws of this country. 
It depends on whether you went to Oxford or Cambridge. I conclude by saying that whatever decision may have been made regarding  Senator Murphy,  no decision has yet been made on the question of civil rights. By 'civil rights' I mean the right of people to be protected from intrusion without a warrant and the right of people to have some tribunal to which they can go and put their case if they have been wrongly accused. I have in my office another statement by a man in South Australia. Some time ago when statements were made about Yugoslavs going from Australia, invading Yugoslavia and being caught and dealt with, his name was proclaimed throughout Australia as being the name of one of the persons. He has sent me a statement in which he says that he has never returned to Yugoslavia since he came to Australia and that he certainly did not go on that occasion, and this is obvious because he would have been in gaol if he had gone. There is an example of how a man may be smeared. He was smeared as a terrorist who had invaded Yugoslavia and all the time he has been living in South Australia and knows nothing about it. In those circumstances, for the protection of human rights, to allow people to prove their innocence, and for the purpose of showing that undesirable activity is being carried out in this country by the Yugoslav secret police I believe that this inquiry ought to be held. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party will support the amendment foreshadowed by  Senator Rae  which is to the effect that this Bill be referred to the Senate Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee conditionally on its reporting back in a fortnight, that is, by 1st May. We believe that a strong case has been made that there are anomalies in the Bill which ought to be examined and about which Committee which has on it representatives of recommendations ought to be made by that both sides of the Senate and whose  chairman  is, of course, a supporter of the Government. In view of the strong case that has been made, we think that this Bill should be examined further. Perhaps agreement will be reached which will facilitate its passage through the Senate. 
When this suggestion was brought to our attention we said that it would be undesirable for it to be referred to the Committee in circumstances which would enable the Committee perhaps to take months to deal with the issue. We thought that there might be suggestions that employers had used influence to have the Bill postponed. But when it was pointed out to us by  Senator Rae  that his proposal was for the Committee to report back on 1st May - that is. the first day that we meet after the fortnight's recess - we could see no reason why that very desirable action should not be taken. It seems to me that the only people who will be disadvantaged will be the members of the Committee who will lose portion of their holiday. I think it reflects great credit upon  Senator Wright  that he is prepared to sacrifice himself in the interests of the community. Some other members of the Committee are now asking that they also be included in the sympathy I am expressing. On the definite understanding that this will not be a Kathleen Mavourneen - it may be for years; it may bc forever - and that the Committee will report back and that we deal with the Bill at our first meeting in a fortnight's time, I say, on behalf of the DLP that we will support the foreshadowed amendment. 
Debate interrupted. 
The Democratic Labor Party supports the matter being referred to the Joint Committee on the Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceedings. It is only just that the Committee should examine the situation. As to any recommendation that the proceedings of Parliament be televised, I can only say: 'God forbid'. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Does the delega  tion from North Vietnam at present in Aus; tralia include representatives of the South Vietnamese Vietcong? Is not the reception of such representatives a serious breach of diplomatic etiquette in view of the fact that we officially recognise the South Vietnamese Government, and the Vietcong is a terrorist organisation fighting the legitimate Government? What truth is there in reports attributed to the Minister who appeared at the reception that Australia will officially recognise the Vietcong? 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister for Primary Industry. Will the Minister state the Governments's policy on the importation of potatoes from countries where exotic potato diseases exist? What precautions are taken, particularly in Victoria, which is a leading source of seed potatoes? A disease called golden nematode was introduced from the United States and  2  serious diseases exist in New Zealand. 
I move: 
That there be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence the following matter - The adequacy of the Australian Army to perform its necessary part in the defence of Australia. 
I have great pleasure in moving this motion because it has been a matter of some concern to the members of the. Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence that up to the present they have been unable to embark upon a number of matters which they anticipated were to be referred to the Committee. The Committee has met and elected a very efficient and experienced  Chairman  in  Senator Drury.  Our staff is ready. We are all rearing to go. I am very pleased indeed to move this motion that this reference be made to the Committee because it will enable us to set to work on consideration of this important question. I do not propose to debate the question because this is not the place to do it. It will be. debated by the members of the Committee when they make their decision. All I have to say is that there have been considerable changes in the Australian Army in recent months. Every member of the Senate has a regard for the security of his country and would want to ensure that our Army was adequate to its great tasks. I therefore, move this motion for an examination of this very serious question by the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. 
I have heard a brief portion only of the remarks which have been made on this matter. I do not accept the strictures which are made against the Australian Democratic Labor Party on the grounds that it felt that, if possible, it should be represented on this 
Committee. I have been in this Parliament for 14 years. I have never yet seen a report of the. House Committee. 
I have not. 
If somebody will send me one, I will be able to read it. 
I have not been shown any report of the House committee. It is all very well for people who are members of parties which are represented on a committee and who can get reports of decisions of that committee to rise and to say that other members have no right to be represented on that committee. But I strongly object to those honourable senators saying that we have no right to be on that committee when no steps are taken at all, as far as I know, to make available to all members of the Senate information as to what a committee is doing. 1 do not accept that the sole duty of a committee is to make reports to the parties which are represented on that committee. When a committee sends along to the DLP copies of its decisions, information as to its meetings, and copies of its minutes, we will be in a position to determine our course. Perhaps we will not want to be represented on that committee. 
In a sense, my question is a follow-up to a question related to civil rights that I asked the Attorney-General some weeks ago. I pointed out then that certain people claimed to be innocent although they had been caught up in allegations in regard to the Croat issue. I asked what remedy or tribunal they had available to them. The Attorney-General said that there was none as far as he knew, although these people had been attacked under privilege. He said that the matter was worth thinking about. I have not heard the results of his thoughts, but I have heard from some more citizens of Croat origin who have written to me and said - I am asking the question for this reason - that some weeks ago their homes were raided, doors were smashed in and articles - including photographs, letters, their children's schoolbooks, documents, bank books and business account books - were seized and taken away. As no charges have been laid against the citizens who have written to me and as they claim that they are completely innocent, I ask: As a matter of ordinary civil liberties, when will their property be returned so that they can operate their business affairs and their children can use the schoolbooks concerned? Who is responsible for the damage to their houses? Who will compensate them for the manner in which the doors were smashed in on occasions? Finally, who authorised the raids? I ask that last question so that at least they can ask their lawyers whether they can take civil action for damages or the return of their property. 
I direct a question to the. Special Minister of State who assists the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister. Can he throw any light upon statements, which were made in reference to the visit of the Prime Minister to the Pacific conference at Apia, to the effect that an attack was made by Ratu  Sir Kamisese  Mara, the Prime Minister of Fiji, which was said to be supported by representatives of other Pacific countries, on what was described as industrial interference from Australia in the affairs of the. Pacific countries? Can the Minister elucidate exactly what was referred to and what were the circumstances? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Postmaster-General: As Australia is a signatory to the Declaration of Human Rights, including that section of it which guarantees freedom for the passage of information, will the Postmaster-General make a statement to the Parliament, firstly, on his decision to deny postal and similar facilities to the Rhodesian Information Centre in Sydney and, secondly, on the decision of the 
Amalgamated Postal Workers Union of Australia to deny correspondence to members of the Senate? 
1 think it should be said on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party that although we do nol intend to oppose the motion we are concerned that on a number of occasions of late, when arrangements were announced to the Senate on the basis that all parties had been consulted, the Democratic Labor Party had not been consulted. 
 It has been said on a number of occasions. I am informed by our Whip that he knows nothing of the arrangements which have been made. If he could not be found, I am sure that either  Senator Gair  or I could have been found. We do not wish to obstruct the business, but we may be compelled to do so if all kinds of arrangements are entered into and we are not informed of them. 
My question refers to one of the most important committees of this Parliament, the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs. I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affaris: Why is it that although Parliament met in mid-February the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs has not yet been constituted and no one has been appointed to the extremely important post of chairman of the Committee? Does this indicate the attitude of the Minister for Foreign Affairs towards this very important Committee? 
My question relates to the plea which was made by the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate that discussion of certain important matters be held over until the return of  Senator Murphy  who is representing Australia at the International Court of Justice. This morning I heard a broadcast by the Australian Broadcasting Commission in which  Senator Murphy  was asked whether it was a fact that no date, had been set for the hearing, that the date was inconclusive and that there could be some delay.  Senator Murphy  was asked what he proposed to do in the meantime and he replied that he would inspect the tulips and sight-see in Holland which was a very beautiful country. My question is: Does the Acting Leader of the Government consider it appropriate that the business of the Senate should be held up while  Senator Murphy  tiptoes through the tulips? 
 I have been deeply moved by the expressions that I have heard from honourable senators opposite in favour of electoral justice. I have been in politics for 45 years. I have always understood, and it has been made very clear to me, that when a question of electoral reform arises the attitude of all parties has been not 'Is it electoral justice?' but 'Who will win?' I am not impressed one bit by al] the hypocrisy about this Bill being electoral justice. It is being supported by one side of the 
Senate and opposed by the other side because each side is motivated by who it thinks will win under it. 
This question of electoral reform was an issue at the last Federal election. The Australian Democratic Labor Party, in its advertisements, said that the object of the Australian Labor Party was to bring about  i:  sys-tern under which it would be entrenched in office for years to come. There is nothing wrong in that. Any political party tries to bring about a system under which it will be kept in office. But what 1 objected to was the attitude of the Australian Press which, mealymouthed sycophancy, did not attempt to contest the issue of whether the ALP "would try to fiddle with the electoral system to keep it in office. All the Australian Press said was that it would be unthinkable that an organisation with such notable principles as those of the Australian Labor Party would do that kind of thing. 
Of course, the fact of the matter is that the ALP is like any other political party in that if it can fix things to stay in office it will do so.The DLP made clear to the public during the Federal election campaign what would happen. On behalf of the Party,  Senator Gair  made a statement that the object of the ALP would be to perpetuate itself in office and to transfer overwhelming power to the major cities at the expense of rural -and less populated areas, ls there any member of the Labor Party who will deny that that is the object of the Party? The silence is deafening. 

 Senator Gair pointed out that the DLP knew that the ALP would seek the passage of legislation to give the vote to 18-year-olds not because it had any particular feeling for youth but because it believed that that would help it to obtain at least 2 to 3 per cent improvement in voting at future elections. He then pointed out that the ALP would propose a reduction of the loading in favour of rural electorates from 20 per cent to 10 per cent for the purpose of increasing the benefit of the vote from the big cities. He pointed out that the ALP would redraw the boundaries of the parliamentary seats and make no secret of the fact that it would seek to do that to its own benefit. Finally,  Senator Gair  pointed out that the ALP had promised to alter the preferential system of voting to an optional preferential system of voting, which is close to its cherished aim of. the first past the post system of voting, and that that would help to wipe out the Australian Country Party and the 
Australian Democratic Labor Party. Will any member of the Australian Labor Party deny that proposition or that that is what that Party, in its dreams, wants to happen? Bluntly, that is the situation. 
The ALP, in what it has put forward, is not motivated by any ideas of electoral justice or fair play. All its members say is: 'All these things will keep us in government. They are all in our favour. We are 100 per cent for them'. I do not say that in doing that the ALP is doing anything different from what other political parties have done when they have been in office. In this country there is no such thing as devotion to electoral justice. There is nobody with any desire to achieve electoral justice. All that the parliamentarians want to do today is to bring in a system under which they will win. I notice that when I say that the uproar which would be expected if I were saying something wrong is not to be heard. There is deafening silence from the members of the ALP, who say to themselves: 'We have to admit that ne is right'. 
This Bill sets out to alter the percentage basis of difference between electorates from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. Nobody is worried about whether the difference may be 10 per cent or 20 per cent. The honourable member for Grayndler in another place, the Honourable Fred Daly, would freely admit, in those moments when he is honest, that he can achieve all the gerrymandering that he wants under the present system and that the 20 per cent or 10 per cent difference is so much guff. It is so much guff because, whether or not this Bill is passed, if the honourable member directs his talents to fixing the electorates he will be able to fix them without any trouble under the existing legislation. So, the talk about the difference of 20 per cent or 10 per cent is so much tommy rot and nonsense. He and I have been in the game long enough that we do not have to bull to each other. We know that the position is that all the talk about this Bill is so much nonsense. He knows that he can get what he wants under the existing legislation if he likes to pull the strings the right way. 
Roughly, what happened was this: Last year the Australian Labor Party held a conference in Launceston. I know all about these conferences because I was a delegate to them on a number on occasions. On one occasion I was delegate when  Mr Daly  was there as an observer. Out of deference to his feelings,I will not mention what he was doing there. I will say only this: At that conference in Launceston a sub-committee was appointed for the purpose of determining an electoral system which would fix the existing electoral system so as to keep the ALP in office for years to come. I have friends in the ALP from the old days. I have chatted with them and they have said: 'The committee has met and has made a decision. The decision is that optional preferential voting will be introduced at the first available moment'.I was foolish enough, wise enough or rash enough to mention this before the last Federal election. I said of this Press talk to the effect that it was unthinkable that the Australian Labor Party would try to fiddle the electoral system that it was so much nonsense, that the ALP had already agreed to fiddle the electoral system. The fact was that before the election, although  Mr Whitlam  kept it dark and everybody was sworn to secrecy, I was not sworn to secrecy and was told by people in the know that the Committee had decided to recommend optional preferential voting because it was nearly as good as first past the post but did not sound so bad to the public. 
 Senator Cavanagh  did not have to tell me.  Senator Cavanagh  is probably so straight forward that he would not mind telling me, but I know any number of fellows in the Labor Party who say to me: I am still a friend of yours.I think you were right but I was not game to go over with you. If you want to know anything that happens just ask me andI will tell you'. So they told me. They said that the Committee had met and had fixed it and that it would be optional preferential. Everybody was sworn to secrecy not to let the Democratic Labor Party know. Unfortunately the Democratic Labor Party knew beforethe election that it was all fixed and that at the first available moment the new Government would bring in optional preferential voting. This Bill is just window dressing. What Government supporters have in mind is to bring in optional preferential voting at the first available moment and, as they say, they will be in government then for 40 years. I know that some honourable senators are crying out, but one does not notice the honourable member for Grayndler objecting He andI have been in the game so long that, as I said before, we do not bull to each other. 
Before the election I made a big Press statement that was featured in all the Australian Press. I said then that if the Australian Labor Party was elected to government it would fiddle the electoral system and would do it by bringing in optional preferential voting. The reaction was remarkable. I made the statement one morning and that afternoon  Mr Whitlam  made the statement that, of course, he would not do that kind of thing. He made a promise. He said: 'I would never do that sort of thing'. The fact is, as everybody knows - I have been to the Australian Labor Party Federal Conference and know - whatever  Mr Whitlam  says is a personal promise. It is only a promise from him. But if Labor has the numbers in the Senate, the Federal Conference could say: 'All right, you made a promise, but unfortunately you are only an individual'. If the Conference tells its members that they have the numbers to bring in the optional preferential system to keep the Party in office, the members will do as they are told.  Mr Whitlam  made a personal promise, but if the Conference tells him to break the promise he will do as he is told, the same as every honourable senator on that side of the House will do as he is told because, under the present system, when the Federal Conference coughs everybody in the Australian Labor Party sneezes. That is the situation today. 
AsI was saying when I was interrupted by the applause from the Australian Labor Party, there is talk that there might be a gerrymander under this Bill. I would say, having been 45 years in politics, that it is a remarkable coincidence how often the reports which are brought in by electoral commissions coincide with the views of the government in power. It is a remarkable coincidence. Of course, there may be reasons for it. We heard tonight of the famous redistribution in 1949 which was masterminded - I will not mention the names of the people concerned - by Pat and Arthur. I would not mention their names, but in that particular redistribution we on the Victorian Australian Labor Party Executive were told that it would keep Labor in office for 40 years. However, there was only one thing wrong. All the prima donnas who had won by a majority of 20,000 votes in a House of 75 seats said that they had to win by 20,000 votes in a House of 120 seats. In my State of Victoria immense Labor majorities were locked up in electorates like Scullin where they did no good for the Labor Party. The result of the electoral redistribution in 1949 which was masterminded to ensure that Labor was in office for 40 years has been that the Australian Labor Party has never been able to get even half the seats. The fact is that if the Labor Party, in any redistribution it wishes to make, leaves it to the Commonwealth Electoral Office, which is designed to be impartial, it would probably get a reasonably sensible redistribution. But if it allows the politicians to interfere as they have in redistributions over the years, the Labor Party will get something similar to what happened in 1949 when its scheme blew up in its face. 
I was on the Australian Labor Party Executive in 1949 when there was an argument over whether the Australian Labor Party could tell the officers concerned who were strictly impartial and could not be interfered with. The argument on the Executive was whether to tell these officers to transfer 6,000 votes over the river from Richmond to Fawkner so that Bill Bourke would win. I remember one of the masterminds saying: Look, we have already fixed it. You cannot make it too rough'. I remember one Minister in the Chifley Government then saying: 'Of course, you can. I have already seen to it that my seat is safe'. He lost his seat at the next election. He tried 3 times but could never win his seat back after that. 1 can only say with the kindliest of spirits to the Labor Party: Do not let the prima donnas say what the redistribution is to be. Do not interfere with it because it will blow up in your face as it did in 1949. We are told that we have to vote for this Bill because it represents one vote one value, as though there were some mysterious value in the one vote one value system. 
The other day I was reading a statement by a South Australian, politician - this will appeal to the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh)  in which he pointed out that in the recent election in that State the Labor Party received SI per cent of the votes and won 57 per cent of the seats. It was not one vote one value there. It could not have been. No matter how one tries to line the seats up one will never get one vote one value. The doctrine of one vote one value interests me. Let honourable senators opposite, all those leading personalities of the trade union movement, tell me where there is a one vote one value voting system adopted in respect of a trades hall council.  Mr Deputy President,  you will notice that the silence is deafening. Let them tell me of one Australian Council of Trade Unions conference where there is one vote one value. Again the silence is deafening. On the Federal Executive of the Australian Labor Party there are 2 delegates from each State, but there is not one vote one value. They do not believe in it. At the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party there are 6 delegates from each State but there is not one vote one value. When I was defeated in 1961 I received 200,000 votes. In Tasmania 10 senators received 180,000 votes. 
Our friend says it is in the Constitution, but does not the Government believe in justice? Does it not believe in one vote one value? It does not. When it comes to the point our friends here believe in one vote one value but in their own Party there is hardly one organisation which stands on one vote one value. In this Senate 10 honourable senators represent 180,000 Tasmanians. In 1961 I received 200,000 votes and I did not win a seat. When I referred to this fact  Senator O'  Byrne said: 'That is quite right. I thoroughly agree with it.'  Senator O'Byrne  nods his head, so he does not believe in one vote one value. He believes in the system under which 10 honourable senators can each receive 18,000 votes but a man who stands for Parliament and receives 200,000 votes does not obtain a seat.  Senator O'Byrne  says that he agrees with that and the Australian Labor Party fully supports it. Why all the guff about one vote one value when the Labor Party has a different system for ils Federal Conference? Do honourable senators know why the split in the Labor Party occurred? Let me tell them. When the vote was taken the States- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Cant)  - Order! The Senate will come to order. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  I sincerely say that you have been very fair and I am glad to see you adopt that stand. As we know, when the split occurred in the Labor Party Victoria, New South Wales and one delegate from Queensland represented three-quarters of the Labor membership in this country. Because  Mr Kim  Beazley was out of the country it was arranged for  Mr Webb  to take his place. Even when  Mr Beazley  came back, unconstitutionally and illegally the vote was given to Webb although Beazley was in the country and entitled to vote. Those delegates were able to take the action which caused the split in the Labor Party. On that occasion the split was caused by the votes of one-quarter of the Labor membership of this country which determined on the split in opposition to the votes of three-quarters of the Labor membership. When people talk to me about one vote one value I always remember the statement of the late  Sir Arthur  Fadden who said: Where you people have got them is this: You know where the bodies are buried.' 
Reference was made to the fact that the DLP to obtain votes was supposed to select people whose names began with the first letters of the alphabet. I point out that the first institution which triggered off this kind of thing was the decision of the Australian Labor Party to pick 4 Senate candidates named Amour, Armstrong, Ashley and Arnold. Let us look at the matter this way: I can remember when the late Percy Clarey died. He was a great Labor man. When the Labor Party had to pick a candidate they took one whose name started with 'B'. He was a good candidate in his own right. I looked at the list of candidates for the Federal election on 2nd December. The Australian Labor Party had more candidates in the top bracket of the alphabet who received the donkey vote than did the Democratic Labor Party. This indicates that the Labor Party talks about other people but it is prepared to do the same job when it suits it. 1 come to the question of electoral justice. What is the system which would really give us electoral justice in this country? I have always said- 

 - Senator McAuliffe said: 'Do not tell us about proportional representation'. He does not want electoral justice. He is honest. He wants a system under which he will win. Is that right? The honourable senator will not answer. In relation to this matter of electoral justice, I am strongly on the side of 2 Ministers in the present Labor Government. I agree with them entirely. I think that they are on the right tram and I honour them because they realise that what is being put in this Bill is not electoral justice and they want electoral justice. First of all I shall read from a speech by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron). Mr Cameron  gave this address at the official opening of the new headquarters of the Henry George League, 31 Hardware Street, Melbourne, on 25th September 1972. That was not long ago. He is no lightweight, is he? He is up with it. 
 Senator Gietzelt  asks: 'Is he right'? I advise the honourable senator not to question whether  Mr Cameron  is right. He will fix the honourable senator. I think that  Mr Cameron  has a lot of common sense and that he believes in electoral justice.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  could I implore your help again? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Cant)  - No, not while you are being provocative. 
 Mr Cameron  stated: 
Proportional Representation ... is coming. We were able to get Proportional Representation as a system injected into the 2 most important branches of the Labor Party, N.S.W. and Victoria. My own personal hope is that the day will come when not only will the Senate be elected by Proportional Representation but when the House of Representatives will also. 
Hear, hear! I agree. 1 think the Minister is putting a very strong point of view.  Mr Clyde  Cameron went on - I would expect silence because this is one of the men who run the show in another place. I think honourable senators should be more deferential to his point of view. He went on: 
Our  President  in Queensland,  Mr  Eggerton.  has just returned from Scandinavia, where they have P.R. They wouldn't have it any other way; neither would the Labor Party in Tasmania. The Prime Minister of Sweden told me in April . . . that the Swedish Social Democrats could not have held Government continually for 40 years without a break, but for the fact that they had a fair and honest system of election. And there is great temptation  for  a party in office to have dishonest systems of elections - 
Now he is having a shot at the Labor Party -  while they are there, forgetting that the time will come when the dishonest systems that were designed to keep them in office will work against them and put them out of office in a way that is dishonest too - 
I hope honourable senators will remember Clyde Cameron's warning - 
When P. R. ls adopted for the House of Representatives 1 believe the truths preached by Henry George so many years ago will begin to become something which public men will not be able to resist. 
Those words were spoken by a Minister of the Crown who is No. 3 or No. 4 in the hierarchy. He says that there is no electoral justice in the single electorate system and that the DLP policy of proportional representation is the only system which gives electoral justice. A couple of years ago the Victorian ALP appointed a committee to find out what system would give electoral justice. The committee comprised  Dr K.  Grigg, convenor;  Mr W.  Butler, prominent trade unionist; Sam Merrifield, member of the Legislative Council;  Mr J.  P. Brebner, secretary of the Paper Mill Employees Union;  Senator Sam  Cohen, Councillor R. Fell,  Mr J.  M. Tripovich, and I understand that Gordon Bryant was associated with the committee also. I have here the committee's report which says that electoral justice cannot be achieved under a singlemember electoral system. The committee sent this report to the Victorian ALP Conference. The committee came to this conclusion: 
Only the quota-preferential method comes anywhere near satisfying the criterion of justice to all electors,  whereunder  their right can be realised to cast a useful vote that takes part in the election of a Parliament. The committee draws attention to Table 1 which demonstrates glaringly the number of electorates in Victoria under which all Labor voters are disfranchised . . . under single-member systems. 
This report says that there is no electoral justice with a single-member system and it says that in the committee's belief electoral justice can be achieved only under a proportional representation system, and that view agrees with the views expressed by  Mr Clyde  Cameron. (Government senators interjecting)- 
This situation is very interesting. I know that senators on this side of the chamber will not be against knowing what is in the report because they would be interested in finding out the committee's conclusions as to the best electoral system. As this is a report by an ALP committee on what is the best system to suit the whole community and the ALP, I ask for leave for it to be incorporated in Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Cant)  - Is leave granted? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-^ 
Leave is not granted. 
We have an extraordinary situation here. This is a report by half a dozen leading members of the Australian Labor Party, and these half dozen members of the Australian Labor Party have made this report to a Victorian ALP conference. Every senator on the other side, except one, has no objection to it being incorporated in Hansard but  Senator Mulvihill  objects. Does this mean that  Senator Mulvihill  is against electoral justice? 
 Senator Mulvihill  is against electoral justice. He knows that if I did read out this voluminous report I would not be able to put the other powerful arguments which possibly could convert all the members of his Party. I ask again whether leave has been refused. I ask  Senator Mulvihill  whether he refuses leave. 
I ask for leave to incorporate the report. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - 
asked for leave to incorporate a document in Hansard. I asked the Senate whether that leave was granted. Two voices on the Government side of the chamber said: 'No'. The honourable senator was not granted leave. 
Honourable senators on the other side know that if I read it all out the powerful argument which almost certainly would convert them to my way of thinking could not be adduced. So I will read out some of the more important paragraphs and then I will ask for permission to table the document at the end of my speech. 1 have already read the conclusions reached by the committee. Some of the other principal points made by the committee are as follows: 
The Committee is of the opinion that the system most suitable to the electoral needs of Victoria is the quota-preferential method based upon multi-member electorates, and draws attention to its satisfactory operation in Tasmania since 1909. Since the adoption of the 7-member electorate, there has been stable government with a 2-party system, with 90 per cent of the voters receiving direct satisfaction at the polls, having a wide choice of candidates as they do, on the multi-tickets of the major parties. 
In its summary the committee, which was a Labour committee consisting entirely of top men in the Labor Party, such as Jack Tripovich and the late Sam Cohen, stated:  . . The Committee has examined the various main voting systems in current use, and has carried out an exhaustive analysis of the statistics . . . The Committee has reached the conclusion that single-member electoral methods are quite unsatisfactory in arriving at a result in which there. is any guarantee of correlation between the number of seats won by Parties and the wishes of electors .' . . Under both single-member systems a great number of citizens are virtually disfranchised. In a democracy such a result is unacceptable. 
This is the system supported by the Government and it is a system which an ALP committee says is unacceptable in a democracy. The committee further stated: 
A more satisfactory method for public elections- 
Here is the king hit -  . . would be to embody preferential voting on ballot papers with the counting of quotas by returning officers . . . 
What more can I say? There was a fairminded committee which had a look at this situation and it said: 'If you want electoral justice wipe out the single-member electoral system and bring in the quota-preferential system*. Under those circumstances, all the talk about electoral justice is guff. Labor Party members have examined the situation and the only conclusion they came to is that the system proposed by the Labor Government is unjust electorally. What has been the experience of the Australian Democratic Labor Party? On occasions we have polled one-sixth of the votes in Victoria, but in a Parliament of 100 members we do not get one seat. Obviously a Party which polls one-sixth of the votes ought to get some representation. But the Australian Labor Party is violently opposed to any representation in the Victorian Parliament for a party for which one in every six Victorian electors have voted. 
It is no good blaming the Liberals. If the Government was on our side we could get that representation. If I put up to the Government tomorrow a system of quota preferential which, according to the ALP's own committee, would be better for the ALP as well as for us, the Government would vote against it because even if it was of benefit to the Government, the Government could not stand it doing any good for the DLP. In other words, the Government is not interested in electoral justice and it is not interested in electoral fairplay; all it is interested in is a system which will prevent people it does not like from getting any representation. So honourable senators opposite should not cry all over the floor about parliamentary electoral systems which will bring justice because they do not believe in it. All they believe in is a system which will benefit the Government but will not benefit anybody else. 
No, he would be in the chicken vote. 
Before  Senator Georges  interrupted me I was about to say that I have received- 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - 

 Senator Georges, I call for order and I ask you to respect the chair. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 

 Senator Georges, I have called the Senate to order on several occasions.  Senator McManus  did ask for my protection at one time and I refused to give it to him because he was provocative, but I now ask you to come to order. 
I conclude by referring to a document which I have received from 2 mathematics masters at the Carey Baptist Grammar School who have conducted an investigation into this whole question of electoral systems. What they found is very interesting. To test the fairness of each electoral method, the number of wasted votes was calculated. A wasted vote is one which would not have changed the outcome had it not been cast. It was found that under the preferential system 50 per cent of votes were wasted. With first past the post more than 60 per cent of votes were wasted: They did not help to elect a candidate. As a comparison, the 77 electorates were arranged in11 groups, following natural boundaries. Seven members were elected from each group under the quota-preferential system. It was found that the wastage of votes dropped from 50 per cent or 60 per cent to 12.5 per cent. The mathematics masters who have examined this go on to say: 
From the parties' point of view, the PR method gave results in fair agreement with the votes cast. It was the only system which gave representation to the Democratic Labor Party. From the voters' point of view, single member electorates virtually disfranchise inner city Liberal voters and country Labor voters. Under PR every Liberal, Labor or Country Party voter helped to elect at least one member. We concluded that no system based on single member electorates was satisfactory, and that PR based on multi-member electorates would give  a  better deal for all voters. 
I say in conclusion that since the matter of electoral justice has been raised by the Government - it says this is a vote on electoral justice - we are unable to vote for this Bill because on the evidence that I have presented it does not give electoral justice. Therefore we will vote against the Bill, and tomorrow we will give consideration at our Party meeting to moving an amendment which will ask the Senate to establish the principle which is set out in these documents that proportional representation does give electoral justice.I seek leave,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  to table the documents to which I have referred, namely, the report of the committee of the Victorian branch of the Australian Labor Party, the statement by  Mr Clyde  Cameron and the report of the mathematics masters who have examined the different systems of voting. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Cant)  - The Chair has no authority to give you leave to table the documents,  Senator McManus.  Another senator may move that the papers be laid on the table. 
Motion (by  Senator Gair)  proposed: 
That the papers referred to by  Senator McManus  be tabled. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Is the motion seconded? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I present the following petition from 47 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of certain citizens of New South Wales respectfully sheweth: 
That Australian citizens place great value on the sanctity of human life and the physical, mental and social welfare of mothers and children. 
That we are deeply concerned to preserve throughout Australia the law's protection of human life from the moment of conception. 
That proposals to change the law to allow abortion on demand and the termination of pregnancy for non-medical reasons are unacceptable to the people of Australia. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the honourable House will not extend the laws governing abortion and will uphold the right to life of the unborn child. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
A petition in identical terms was presented by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. 
Petition received. 
I desire to ask  a  question of the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Minister or his Department received a submission from the Embassy for South Vietnam detailing acts of aggression amounting to a renewal of the war by North Vietnamese and Vietcong elements? Will the Minister, on behalf of the Australian Government, express concern to the North Vietnamese at their breaches of the ceasefire agreement and call for an immediate ceasefire and/ or withdrawal as a step to real' peace in Vietnam? 
I ask a question of the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It refers to the request which Australia has made to Great Britain to support it in its protests against the French nuclear tests in the Pacific. As it obviously must be very embarrassing for the British and Australian governments, which collaborated in a long series of tests and got all the nuclear information that they wanted, to suggest that France should stop after having gone only part of the way in its investigations, would it not be a much better alternative for Australia to ask the Government of Great Britain to make available to France the full information which it has obtained with our assistance and so make it unnecessary for France to conduct further tests? 
 I give notice that on the next day of sitting I will move: 
That Australia's foreign relations, as administered by the Whitlam, Cairns, Hawke panel be declared a disaster area. 
I direct to the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question which refers to the inquiry in search of information recently directed to him by  Senator Gietzelt.  As the representative of the Minister for Foreign Affairs has apparently not been advised on the policy of the Australian Democratic Labor Party regarding nuclear explosions, will the Minister take notice that the Democratic Labor Party has repeatedly said that its policy is for complete nuclear disarmament all over the world? Our policy further states that when countries such as the Soviet Union and China refuse to take action to end nuclear armaments in the world Australia then has no alternative but to endeavour to obtain a nuclear deterrent for herself. Will the Minister arrange that, in future, Ministers and supporters of the Government are more adequately informed on these matters by the Department of Foreign Affairs? 
The members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party were not very happy about some of the provocative remarks made by  Senator Gietzelt.  Perhaps he made them under the impression that we were going to oppose this action. So we will not be worried about them. Providing the form of the words in the amendment is that further consideration of the Bill be adjourned until the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations presents its report of the matter referred to it by the Senate on 7th October, our attitude is that there is a good argument that this should be done. In the circumstances, we can save the time of the Senate. We can leave over the debate on the principles involved until the Committee has presented its report. The Democratic Labor Party has a great regard for the Committee system. We think that where possible the Senate should have regard to the work that the committees have done. Therefore, the Democratic Labor Party supports the proposal that further consideration of the Bill be adjourned until the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations looking into this matter presents its report. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Repatriation. Did the Government pledge itself before the last election to make the total and permanent incapacity pension not less than the minimum wage? If so, when will this be done? 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports this Bill. Obviously in a sense the measure is a gamble. One has only to look at the records of the divorce courts to see that an overwhelming proportion of divorces occur in marriages which have taken place at a very young age. That applied when the age limit was 21 years. The same possibilities exist in the case of the 18-year-olds. But, as against that, it must be agreed that times have changed. We have decided that 18-year-olds should have the right to vote and we have decided that they should have other privileges. Under those circumstances it seems that justification can be claimed in this case for reducing the age. 
I hope everything will turn out all right. But, as I said before, when people marry very young, when people who are immature are carried away by a temporary attraction, the possibilities exist that the marriage will not be a success. However, in the times in which we live young people are obviously more mature in some ways than their counterparts were 30, 40 or 50 years ago. For that reason, my Party has decided to support the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I ask a question of the Minister Assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In what way does the Ministry for Foreign Affairs supervise proposed votes by the Australian delegation to the United Nations? My question refers to publicity given to the fact that the Australian delegation voted for a resolution calling for action to give independence to the Cocos Islands and that the Prime Minister, who is also Minister for Foreign Affairs, subsequently stated that Australia had no present intention to give independence to the Cocos Islands. 
 I desire to ask a question of the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister. My question refers to the proposal that an Australian ship be sent to an area in the vicinity of the French explosions. We have been told that this would be safe for the crew of that ship because it would be outside the fallout area. If persons on that ship are safe, how is it that we who are thousands of miles further away from the explosions are in danger? 
My question to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister. I ask: Was  Mr Mick  Young, who travelled on a VIP plane to Europe with the Prime Minister, a guest of the Australian people, or did he pay his fare? Will the Minister state the principles upon which the Government acts in making VIP trips abroad available to officials of the Australian Labor Party? Does the fact that  Mr Young  accompanied  Mr Whitlam  on a visit to the Pope mean that  Mr Young  is in line for appointment to the vacant position of Ambassador to the Vatican? 
My question is in relation to the use of VIP aircraft by officials of political parties. It follows upon a Press statement that in one of his impending visits abroad the Prime Minister will be accompanied on a VIP aircraft by the Federal President and the Federal Secretary of the Australian Labor Party. What is the justification for the use of VIP aircraft by persons who are not personally associated with the Parliament? I ask that we have set out for our inspection the conditions which determine the use of VIP aircraft, by officials of political parties. 
My question, addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, refers to the vexed subject of dual nationality. Will the Minister consider preparing a series of statements in the various languages and, where a naturalised Australian citizen seeks to return to a homeland which does not necessarily recognise Australian naturalisation, arrange for that person to be handed a statement indicating the position in regard to the country he proposes to visit, making it clear to him that his Australian nationality does not necessarily guarantee that he will be allowed to return to this country? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
When does the Government propose to take remedial action, promised prior to the last election, relating to the mentally and physically handicapped persons in Australia whose serious plight was illustrated by the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare, which made 85 recommendations for assisting such people. 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLAND- The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Some recommendations of the Senate Standing Committee are already being implemented. For instance, the establishment of work assessment centres for handicapped school leavers, planning the geographical location of new sheltered workshops and assisting sheltered workshops to obtain Government contracts are already in the process of being implemented by the Department of Social Security. Some recommendations coming within my responsibility are in the planning stage with a view to implementation and it should not be long before details on these can be made known. 
A number of recommendations of the Senate Committee relate to matters that are to be considered by the proposed National Commission on Social Welfare. These will be implemented after the Commission has decided on the priorities that should be given to meeting social welfare needs and the location of those needs. 
Similarly, other recommendations which come within my responsibility will be implemented following investigations by the Interim Committee on Hospitals and Health Services. The Committee is seeking to develop a system of hospital and health services which will benefit all Australians but, at the same time, accommodate the needs of particular groups such as physically and mentally handicapped persons. Finally, some recommendations are concerned with matters that are the responsibility of State Governments. These recommendations will be brought to the notice of the relevant State authorities. 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Labour. Will the Government give consideration to making representations so that Noumea may not be included in the series of bans being operated in Australia, particularly by the Australian Waterside Workers Federation? Will the Government take into consideration the fact that Noumea is a colony and that its people have no control over the decision in regard to atomic explosions but, on the contrary, Noumea is one of the Pacific Islands for which Australia says it is intervening at The Hague? In these circumstances all the bans mean is that the people of Noumea are going to be penalised and we will be losing valuable trade. Will the Government remove from the alleged victims in Noumea of these explosions the additional disadvantage of the foolish bans being imposed upon them? 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, refers to the report by  Dr Cairns  on his return from Communist China that he had raised the matter of tests with  Mr Chou  En-lai.  Mr Chou  En-lai exhibited considerable resentment and said that China would continue to conduct atomic tests in the same way as previously. As the Australian Government took the lead in mobilising international opinion against the French test's, why does not the Australian Government take a similar lead in mobilising international opinion, particularly in South East Asia and the Pacific, against the Chinese tests and drop proposals at present in train for cultural exchanges, visits of parliamentarians and trade advantages for Communist China? 
I wish to say that I see no necessity for Government senators, whenever we take action in regard to a Bill, to stand up and stress the point that we have failed to pass the Bill. We all know the constitutional situation; it is quite clear. What is the necessity for this meaningless repetition by Government senators that we have done a certain thing which means that we have not passed the Bill? I suppose this is meant to be a threat. AH I can say is that it is an empty threat. Therefore, I suggest that the Government make out its list of all the Bills which it claims we have failed to pass, and when the right time comes it can go over the road and put in its plea. But I see no reason why time after time we should be plagued with this kind of thing. We are now reaching the stage of the Government warning us about failing to pass Bills before we have even dealt with them. I have here a ukase or declaration, whatever one likes to call it, which is signed 'Clyde R. Cameron' and which was given to the Press at Stockholm on 2 June 1973. It reads: 
The Senate has no mandate to withdraw the main ingredients from the Government's prescription for healthier industrial relations and Liberal, DLP, and Country Party senators must now take responsibility for a continuation of the present breakdown in labour relations. 

 Mr Cameron also says: 
I have now decided that during the Budget session I will recommend that the Senate be presented with another Bill restoring the vital clauses rejected by the Opposition senators because industrial peace is absolutely essential . . . 
So we have now reached the stage where we are threatended with a double dissolution not only after we have dealt with a Bill but also before we have dealt with a Bill. The statement comes from Stockholm. If the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  were so interested in the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, I would have thought that he would have stayed here in Australia to supervise its passage through this chamber. I hope that we will not receive any more threats, either after the event or before the event. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My remarks will be "brief. These Bills are noncontentious. They provide for improvements in education for which the Government and the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  deserve commendation. However, I want to issue one warning. These Bills represent only a portion of the increased expenditure on education which the Government has promised and I feel a certain amount of concern after glancing at some of the amounts to be provided. Ali honourable senators know that in the community at present there is much concern over the economic situation. The stock market is down and prices of real estate are rising. Real estate prices are rising because the people in the community who believe that they know the economy are taking their mosey from the stock market and other places and investing it in real state which they believe will retain its comparative value whatever happens. Therefore I think that this Government is too lavish in the expenditure which it is undertaking. 
Many of the projects on which the Government is spending money are of a desirable character but I do not see how it can bring about the millennium in the first 12 months of office. There is an urgent necessity for a scale of importance to be developed in connection with many of these projects and they should take their turn as finance becomes available rather than imposed on the community at the one time as appears to be the case at present. Honorable senators can understand that people become scared when they hear the 35-hour working week, equal pay and all kinds of other measures being advocated. They are all desirable but are we able to achieve these aims all at once? In the case of education, I saw a statement by one of the teacher organisations that it had been promised $ 1,434m by the Australian Labor Party last year if it was elected and that was only for certain aspects of education. Without desiring in any way to suggest that I do not support improvements in education, I would say that when so many things have been promised there is need for a little more caution. 
Finally I want to say that the Government has promised to do away with fees and in the case of students and parents of students whose resources are not very great that decision will be very welcome, but I think that the Government, particularly in view of the many avenues in which money is to be spent, ought to say to itself: 'Are we sure that we are going to get value?' Honourable senators should look at the records of Australian universities. I made a survey of them last year and would like to quote from them but I shall not do so because that would take a long time. However, if they look at the records they would be appalled at the number of students who enter Australian universities and do not complete the first year. The lesson is that instead of building more and more universities we ought to bring about some system of testing or examining students to ensure that those who go to universities and cost the country these immense sums of money really are qualified to take advantage of a university course.Their education should perhaps proceed in another direction. But I do believe that the fact of so many students attending universities - at immense cost to this Government - who the records show are unable even to complete the first year must be taken into consideration before we start spending money widely on education. I conclude by saying: Let us provide all the money that education needs but let us be very careful to ensure that it is spent wisely and that we are getting value. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party desires to be associated with the message of condolence. 
My question which refers to the present world shattering confrontation between the Prime Minister and the Bishop of Bendigo is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Will the Prime Minister help to allay the fears of the Bishop's flock by giving an unqualified assurance that he does not propose to adopt the method of dealing with the Bishop which was employed by King Henry II in his confrontation with Archbishop Thomas Becket? 
My remarks will be brief. The Bill which we are discussing is a Bill to reform the system of arbitrtaion and conciliation. We are told by the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  who represents in this place the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  that this Bill will go a long way towards producing industrial peace. The members of the Democratic Labor Party have closely studied the Bill and our opinion is that it will - achieve nothing. Whether or not there is to be industrial peace does not depend upon legislation or Acts of Parliament. Fundamentally, industrial peace depends on whether there are people on both sides in industry who are prepared to cooperate to bring about industrial peace. A government can produce all the legislation in the world but if it has not got that prime condition, that is, people on both sides who want industrial peace and justice, it will not get industrial peace. Therefore I say that to get industrial peace we need people who want it and we need a government which will cooperate to assist them to produce it. Those conditions do not exist today. 
Arbitration did a great deal for the trade union movement. Because of the arbitration system we have the highest average of trade union membership in the world. Trade unionism has done great things for the Australian worker but today I confess with regret, because I have always supported arbitration, that arbitration is on the way out. It is being destroyed by people on the employer side and by people on the employee side. The joke in the legal profession today is this: That a seat on the bench of the Commonwealth Arbitration Court is the equivalent of being given a deck chair on the 'Titanic'. All or most of the changes that are suggested in this Bill will contribute nothing to industrial peace. 
In considering this legislation the DLP sought the advice of members of the legal profession. It sought the advice of members of the trade union movement. It - sought the advice of employers and men who had been in the arbitration system over the years and who knew it through and through. Having examined this Bill they advised us that it would do .nothing for industrial peace. They went further to say that the best Bill that has ever been passed in regard to arbitration and conciliation in this country was the  1947  legislation passed by the Chifley Government. They said that if the present Government wanted to make any real contribution towards industrial peace it would try to get back to the principles of the Bill that was passed by the Chifley Government in  1947  and to which the only worthwhile measures that have been added are those on amalgamation and trade union ballots. . 
In those circumstances the DLP senators met to consider this Bill during the suspension for dinner. We hoped, that it might be possible to salvage something from the Bill but we came to the conclusion that it was unacceptable. Therefore the DLP senators will vote against the second reading of this Bill. We hope that this will induce the Minister for Labour to seek another Bill based preferably on the kind of principles that appeared in the Chifley legislation of  1947.  After all, what is these to argue about in this Bill? Much is being said about doing away with the penal provisions in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Why fight over that? They are there. The Liberal Government refused to implement them. The Liberal Government refused to collect the fines that were imposed. The Labor Government says that if fines are imposed it will not collect them. Why fight over a situation where no government is prepared to implement fines under the penal provisions of the Act? 
On the question of torts by trade union officials, there is a considerable body of opinion that the situation is covered by the existing law. I believe that one of the worst features of this Bill is that it is based on a proposal that there shall be connivance between monopolistic organisations of employers and monopolistic organisations of employees in effect to milk the public in their joint interests. The, whole of this Bill is based on the principle, of big amalgamated trade unions and big organisations of employers getting together, and agreeing to milk the public by agreed awards and then recouping themselves, in the . case of the employers, by higher prices and higher tariffs. I believe that the principle of this Bill is completely opposed to the interests of the general public. It is very much opposed to those on fixed incomes. In order to prove that what I have said is right let me quote a statement that was made by the late  Mr Chifley  on 20 February 1947 when he gave consideration to mis principle or idea which is promoted in this Bill of the community being milked by large monopolistic organisations of employers and of employees who would agree among themselves on awards and then proceed to recoup the employers by putting up prices and tariffs. This is what  Mr Chifley  said in 1947. He issued this warning: 
There are other circumstances that must be guarded - against, namely those that arise as a result of employers and employees engaged in industries which are almost monopolistic coming together and reaching an agreement with a certainty, that they will be permitted to pass on to the consuming public the excessive costs arising from such agreements. Agreements of this kind have a peculiar effect on other sections of industry who seek similar conditions. 
There we have a warning by the revered former Leader of the Labor Party against the principle which is enshrined in this Bill of agreements between monopolistic bodies of employers and employees against the interests of the general public. For that reason we in the Democratic Labor Party have looked at this Bill to see whether there is anything in it worth saving. We have come to the conclusion that there is nothing worth saving. We also point to the fact that if this Bill is so important and necessary, why is the Minister in charge of it not even in the country when it is being debated? He is in Sweden. I believe that if this Bill is so important, we ought to have in this country the presence of the Minister in charge of the Bill. For those reasons the DLP feels that this Bill is not worth saving and will vote to defeat it on the second reading. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party has experienced the greatest difficulty in arriving at a decision upon this matter. It is not an uncommon situation whereby a paternalistic government prepares a plan, in many cases for people living far away, and assures them that the plan is good for them. Then one has the development of a certain amount of local opposition on the ground that the local people want to decide their own affairs and not be subject completely to the paternalistic government. As I have said, we had great difficulty in arriving at a decision. We did everything we possibly could to secure complete information on the matter. The Minister put a very strong case which was supported efficiently and most effectively by officers of his Department who were courteously made available for interview by 2 of our members and who placed before them a number of considerations. Against that, some of us were impressed by the statement that this plan was unanimously opposed by the elected members of the Legislative Council. I would be grateful if anybody would correct me if that statement is not true. The point is that the Legislative Council is a body elected by the people of the Territory. It contains not only representatives of the Country Party but also representatives of the Australian Labor Party. 
They opposed it. I think that any national legislature which tries to give as much self government as it can to areas under its control could not fail to be impressed by the fact that the Legislative Council, the body representing the people of the Northern Territory, unanimously opposed the Ordinance. Party lines were broken. Whatever Party members were in, they all considered that this Ordinance was not in the interests of the people of the Territory. I freely admit that very powerful arguments were adduced for the plan, and many of us would be concerned at the possibility of big profits being made by land developers who do not deserve them. But I would assume that the Legislative Council was aware of all this, and in these circumstances very narrowly we decided that we would vote against the Ordinance. Therefore the Democratic Labor Party will support the rejection of the Ordinance. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)  - Is leave granted for the telegrams to be tabled? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
As has been stated by  Senator Marriott,  the Government has declined to carry out the provisions of the National Service Act. There is therefore no purpose while this Government is in power in arguing about theBill. I merely say that the AustralianDemocratic Labor Party sees nothing wrong in training the young men of Australia to defend themselves. In those circumstances, we fed that national service is a desirable thing. However, during the course of the election campaign the. Labor Party made national service a considerable feature of its policy. While I do not agree with suggestions that the Government can claim a mandate for everything in its election policy, it made the repeal of the National Service Act such a prominent feature of its policy that it can claim to have a mandate in that regard. In those circumstances we will not oppose the Bill, but I can assure the Senate and the people of Australia that we believe in training young men to defend themselves in time of crisis and that on other occasions we will support national service. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the Treasurer examine what credit and other assistance can be given to independent small businesses to protect them from elimination by the big organisations, following correspondence received by many parliamentarians on the serious disabilities suffered by such businesses. 

 Senator WILLESEE - The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I would draw the honourable senator's attention to  a  Ministerial statement made by the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry on 12 April 1973 (Hansard pages 1399-1404) in presenting the Report of the Committee on Small Business to the House of Representatives. The Committee made recommendations directed at improving the efficiency of small businesses. 
The specific question of availability of credit was outside the Committee's terms of reference. The honourable  Senator will  know that the trading banks and Other financial institutions have been traditional sources of funds for small businesses. In addition, the Commonwealth Development Bank provides finance to small industrial undertakings for development purposes. 
I desire to be associated with the motion of condolence to the relatives of the late Arthur Calwell. I am sure that I knew him longer than anybody in this Senate because he and I went to the same school, though at different times. I knew him for 50 years and in that period I was associated with him in the Australian Labor Party and also in other spheres. In the 1930s as a team we won the Australian Natives Association debating competition on several occasions. I supported him politically. 
I was a member of his branch of the Australian Labor Party and my father also was one of his principal supporters. Some 20 years ago, for reasons for which neither of us could be blamed, there was an estrangement, but I am glad to say that a month before he died we met, we had a discussion and, when we parted, he wished me well and I wished him well. I do not believe that in any way he was compromising the political stance that he had taken. I understood that, as a deeply religious man, he wanted to leave this world with malice towards none. I am sure that God has been good to him. May his soul rest in peace. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Will the Prime Minister take action to revise his Cabinet's decision on the recommendations in the Karmel report for exclusion of more than 100 schools from the per capita payments which were previously paid? I ask the Prime Minister to do so because a tape recording of his speech at Melbourne's Festival Hall on 2 May 1972- the tape recording can be made available to him- reveals that he said that if elected 'we will not repeal or reduce any educational benefit which is already being paid. We will confirm any which are there already. ' Does the Prime Minister regard himself as bound by election pledges? 
I direct a question to you,  Mr President.  Will you as  President,  in consultation with Party leaders in the Senate, prepare a statement for the guidance of honourable senators on the proprieties which should be observed by senators as members of Senate committees of inquiry? Will you in particular determine whether it is proper for senators outside such committees to hold Press conferences or issue Press statements reflecting partisan attitudes to the matters on which they are required to adjudicate or reflecting on witnesses who have appeared before them? 
I was present on 2 May last year at a crowded meeting in Melbourne's Festival Hall. The present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  spoke at that meeting. In those days, he was the Leader of the Opposition. He enjoyed the tremendous applause which he received as obviously as he enjoys seeing guards of honour in foreign countries. The then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  said as an election pledge: 
We will not repeal or reduce any, educational benefit which is already being paid. We will confirm any which are there already. 
In other words, the present Prime Minister pledged his word that not one educational benefit being paid by the previous Government would be removed by his Government. The Prime Minister proposes to break his word and to leave 105 schools without the assistance that he promised them. I point out that the present Minister for Education OM, Beazley) was also electioneering. In the course of his electioneering, the present Minister for Education said that his policy was that the Commonwealth should have identity with the education of every child. He proposes now to prevent the Commonwealth having identity with the children in 105 schools. The present Minister for Education went further. He toured a number of areas in the course of the election campaign and, in search of votes, he published a document called 'Priorities in Education'. At page 2 of that document he made this pledge, this election promise: 
Whispering campaigns to the contrary, no private school under Labor will in future get less than the per capita grant that it gets now. 
I speak to the people of Australia: The Prime Minister made the promise that no school would be deprived of the aid that it received under the previous Government. 
 The promise was made by the Minister for Education- 
 I will repeat that promise because of the uproar of Labor senators who do not want it to be heard. The Minister for Education said: 
Whispering campaigns to the contrary, no private school under Labor will in future get less than the per capita grant it gets now. 
My appeal to Labor Party members is to honour the pledge that was given to the people by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Education. 
 My friend from the rural areas of South Australia is trying to prevent the people of Australia hearing the truth. He knows that it is the truth. It is little credit to  Senator McLaren  that he is prepared to try to drown with his shouts the evidence that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Education promised that no school under Labor would receive less than it received in  per  capita payments from the previous Government. He is a supporter of a Government which has dishonoured its pledges. What has happened? Who are the people today who are applauding what the Government has done? 
The majority? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order!  Senator McLaren,  the corner where you sit is becoming known as the hallelujah chorus. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! I will not permit this constant barrage of interruptions. The  speaker  is entitled to be heard. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
 Mr Deputy President, Senator McLaren  objects. He said that I have accused the Government of being dishonest. I have not done that. I have proved that the Government was dishonest. I have quoted the evidence. It does little credit to  Senator McLaren,  who would himself claim to be a man of honour, that he is prepared to defend dishonesty and to defend the breaking of a pledge freely given by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Education when they were chasing votes in order for their Party to become the Government. Who is applauding this action?  Senator McLaren  says that the majority of the people of Australia are applauding it. This decision today is being applauded by the DOGS. That organisation contains worthy representatives of the people who are doing this kind of thing. It is being applauded by the haters of any aid to private schools. The effort made by the Government, or by the left wing section of it, is to use this breaking of pledges - this iniquitous proposal - to drive a wedge on the basis of religion into the people who have their children at private schools. 
I am surprised that  Senator McLaren  should mention  Mr Santamaria. Senator McLaren  will be embarrassing the Ministers in his Government who were once members of  Mr Santamaria's  organisation. He will be embarrassing the many members of his own Party who were once members of  Mr Santamaria's  organisation and who did not have the intestinal fortitude to stay with  Mr Santamaria. Senator McLaren,  you ought to keep quiet. I could name the Ministers and members of your Party who were active members of  Mr Santamaria's  organisation but, not being like your organisation which is anxious to encourage pimping and informing, I will not name them. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator McLaren,  you will cease interjecting. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! The point of order has no substance. The Senate will come to order.  Senator McManus  will be heard in silence. 
What is being done by the Government is a tremendous boost to sectarianism in this country. It is an endeavour to drive a wedge into the parents of children who attend private schools. There is a special attack upon those schools associated with religious organisations and a specific attack on Jewish schools. I admire the extent to which the Jewish people have been prepared to contribute their resources to their schools. But because they desire to teach their children the language of their faith, Hebrew, it is essential that in many instances their classes should be small. Because of their small classes, Jewish schools have been singled put particularly in the Karmel report for a denial of the aid which they deserve in order to train their children. 
I do not wish to be completely on the attack. I want to put forward a positive proposal. I say to the Government that the honourable thing for it to do would be to say that it will retain, as it promised in order to get elected, the basic per capita grants which it insisted it would not deny any school if Labor became the Government. As far as the additional money is concerned, the Government can claim that it has a mandate for the needs provisions in relation to it. If the Government did that, it would be able to say that it had not broken its word, the word that it pledged to be elected as a government. 
All the talk is that the Government  will  help the children of the poor and not the children of the rich. Let me mention a question that was asked of  Mr Whitlam  at the meeting at Festival Hall in Melbourne. It was pointed out that all the elitist schools with the magnificent amenities are not private schools. In Victoria, schools like Melbourne Boys High School, MacRobertson Girls High School and the University High School would have ail the amenities and picked staffs, and would be the equal as far as quality of teaching is concerned of any private school. What is the situation with respect to 2 parents on the same income? One parent sends his boy to Melbourne Boys High School. This Government says that he is entitled to have practically everything required for his education paid by the State. Another parent sends his boy to a private school at which he will get only equal facilities - in many cases the facilities would be not as good at the smaller schools - to those at a public school. He gets nothing from the Government. That is supposed to be justice. 

 Mr Whitlam's attention was drawn in my presence to the example of a man who sends his child to Melbourne Boys High School and another man in receipt of the same income who sends his child to Melbourne Grammer School. The quality of the teaching, buildings and amenities are the same.  Mr Whitlam  was asked why one parent should have everything paid for and the other should get nothing.  His  answer was a classic. He said: 'I cannot answer that question'. Compared with the money that is being lavished in other directions, the amount involved in the making of per capita grants to the schools which are to be denied them is small. It would not require a great deal of expenditure by the Government for it to keep its word. I appeal to the Government to give to the schools that are at present in receipt of per capita grants at least the present per capita grants and to implement its policy in relation to the extra money. In that way it could at least claim that it has been honest. 
Does anyone imagine that the number of schools which are to be denied is not going to grow? Does anyone imagine that as time goes on the number of schools which will be eliminated on the ground that they qualify for nothing is not going to grow? By the expenditure of a small amount of money the Government could keep its word and be honest. Look at what it is spending in another direction. It is going in for free tertiary education. The Government is not prepared to spend a very small sum of money in order to keep its word to the private schools but is prepared to spend huge, even astronomical sums in the field of tertiary education without any regard to the fact that many of the children who will be going to those universities will be the children of wealthy parents who could well afford to pay for their education. Where is the needs provision there? The student at a university who is not too well off and the student at the same university whose father is wealthy and who can provide him with a motor car and everything he wants are going to be treated alike by the Government. There is to be no needs provision there. Why is the needs provision to be concentrated on the private schools? I will tell honourable senators why. The left wing of the Government wants to drive a wedge into the parents of children who attend private schools. It wants to create a sectarian bitterness which, in its belief, will enable it to do away with private schools altogether. Let me quote briefly the example of one school which is to be denied aid and which has been referred to as an extremely wealthy school - Scotch College, Melbourne. The Principal had this to say to me: 
I have made the point repeatedly, both to  Mr Beazley  and in statements, that the school may be regarded as having excellent resources but nevertheless carrying with it a considerable burden in helping parents. The endowments of this school provide $21,500 approximately to help people who cannot meet the fees. The total cost of competitive scholarships, concessions in respect of ministers' children and teachers' children, concessions for younger brothers, and concessions for those in need of assistance, some of them needing complete remission of fees, amounts to just under $200,000. The balance therefore has to be found from the fees paid by those parents who are paying the full fees. 
Scotch College is a private school which is regarded by the Government as being a wealthy school which does not need assistance. It is providing help to the extent of $200,000 to the needy children who attend it. Despite that, the Government has said that it will wipe that school from receiving any Government assistance whatsoever. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
asked the Minister  representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What does the Government intend todo to allay the widespread dissatisfaction of persons interested in the Arts, who allege they have been doublecrossed on pre-election promises of a new deal for the Arts, by the appointment of  Dr Coombs  to a dictatorship in this field. 
Why is not control of the Arts placed where it obviously belongs in the Ministry for the Media. 

 Senator MURPHY - The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Government action since the election relating to administration of the arts corresponds exactly to the proposals outlined in my policy speech of November 1972. On 24 May 1973 I tabled in Parliament an interim report prepared by the Australian 
Council for the Arts outlining proposals for the establishment of a statutory authority to administer Government assistance to the arts. This report has been made public to allow the widest consultation before the introduction of legislation to establish the Council as a statutory authority. 
It is the Government's view that public support for the arts is best provided through a body established independent of Government and composed of people especially qualified by experience and professional qualifications to develop policies in the best interests of the arts. 
I agree with  Senator Murphy  that there were many cases in which what is called the crime of treason had political connotations. Strictly speaking, had the colonists' side lost in the American War of Independence, George Washington could well have been executed for treason. The classic case, of course, occurred in Ulster before the First World War when those in Ulster who disagreed with the proposals for self-government for Ireland formed an armed force, one member of which was a well-known English lawyer,  Mr F.  E. Smith, who acted as an aide-de-camp for one of these forces which threatened rebellion against the Crown. At that time  Mr Smith  - later Lord Birkenhead - was known as 'Galloper' Smith. The organisation with which he was associated made overtures to the German Government for assistance, and a large quantity of arms was imported for the purpose of maintaining their refusal to accept the Act of Parliament passed in the House of Commons, and they therefore threatened treasonable action. The war broke out, and of course the situation was changed. But  Sir Roger  Casement committed exactly the same crime which the people concerned in Ulster had threatened to commit before the war. He went to Germany and endeavoured to obtain assistance for the other side, the Sinn Fein. The remarkable position then came about that  Sir Roger  Casement was prosecuted for treason in the courts of England and the prosecutor was the Lord Chancellor,  Mr F.  E. Smith, who had himself been associated with people guilty of the same crime. 
He was AttorneyGeneral at the same time. He had been associated with people who had been guilty of the same crime, and history records that the 2 men each threatened the same course of action. One was rewarded with the woolsack, the other was hanged and his body was buried in quicklime. 
My remarks will be brief. I am opposed to the imposition of a death penalty under any circumstances. I do not regard the death penalty as being an effective deterrent. I believe that there is always the danger in the imposition of a death penalty that a mistake will be made which can never be remedied. I was deeply concerned about 2 cases in Victoria - the execution of a woman named Lee, who was carried under most extraordinary and unpleasant circumstances to the death chamber, and the execution of a man named Ryan, about which 1 heard from the prison chaplain, who is a very close and respected friend of mine. What he told me confirmed my view that I should oppose the imposition of the death penalty under any circumstances. I shall therefore support the Bill as it stands for the complete abolition of the death penalty. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Media who, in this instance I think, represents the Prime Minister. Has the Minister seen the 54-minute film now showing in Australian theatres and produced by  Mr Terry  Bourke which shows 2 murders, a psychopath hacking off the hair of his victim, a horse shot and mutilated and an army of rats gnawing a young girl to death? Does the Government approve this type of film? If not, why, according to  Mr Bourke,  has he been allocated a Government grant of $165,000 for another film which he says will contain more violence than the last one? 
I regret that this debate on the AddressinReply is being wound up at such a late stage. I think it is a poor compliment to the representative of the Crown and it is a poor compliment to the Government which, after all, is responsible for the Governor-General's Speech and for the fact that the presentation of the Address-in-Reply to the GovernorGeneral has been delayed and delayed and delayed. The Government can blame only itself that there are people about who deduce from this delay an inclination to show towards the representative of the Crown a spurious kind of republican feeling. 
One feature of the performance of this Government since its election has been that it has interested itself more than any other Australian Government in other people's business. We have found while this Government has been in office that there have been notable interventions in the affairs of other people and notable interventions particularly in the field of human rights. The Government has belaboured a number of countries. I refer, for example, to Rhodesia, South Africa and other countries. It has belaboured them on the ground that in those countries there have been infractions of human rights. No doubt many Australians agreed with this. There were some who disagreed. But I think one objection that most Australians had to the expression of the Government's indignation upon many of these questions of human rights was that the government's indignation appeared to be almost entirely selective. It was normally indignant to the nth degree when governments which were not communist infringed human rights and it slumbered peacefully when communist countries infringed human rights, in many cases to a far greater degree. 
I will offer the Government the opportunity to redeem itself - to prove that its indignation is not selective - by asking the Government to turn its attention this week to affairs in Czechoslovakia. Czechoslovakia today has less freedom than any other country in Europe, and it has less freedom than most countries. Five years ago Czechoslovakia was ruled by a communist government. That communist government had gained control after the Second World War in circumstances in which one of the best loved diplomats in Europe, Jan Masaryk, was murdered by being thrown from, a window. Benes, a patriot who had nursed Czechoslovakia through the period 1918-1940, died of a broken heart. The Czech people were not permitted to elect their own government but a communist government was imposed upon them by the bayonets of the Red Army. Five years ago, although the government was communist, that government was attacked on the ground that it sought some small degree of independence from the demands of the Soviet Union. It was attacked because the Czech communists felt that they had some obligation to their own people over and above their obligation to the communist front. When they attempted to use that small degree of independence they were invaded by the Red Army. They were invaded by the armies of the Warsaw Pact. A new government which was entirely foreign to any form of democracy was imposed upon them, and since then Czechoslovakia has been a complete communist dictatorship. 
At that time, 5 years ago, many of the Czech people protested. One of the national heroes since then has been a young student named Jan Palach who, in 1969, gave up his life as a protest against the tyranny that had been imposed upon his country. When, this week, the fifth anniversary of the imposition of that tyranny on Czechoslovakia by the Red Army came around, the Communist authorities in Prague erected around the cemetery where this young boy had been buried a 6- feet high fence and prohibited any Czechoslovak from going to the cemetery to put flowers upon the boy's grave. In spite of the threats and menaces of the Army backed by the Soviet Army, hundreds of Czechs braved imprisonment by going to the cemetery and pinning their flowers upon that wooden wall. 
We ourselves, I think, have had an example of this denial of liberty and human rights. One of our own members, I am informed, in the House of Representatives,  Dr Klugman,  found impenetrable obstacles against getting into Czechoslovakia because he had expressed his personal views on what he regarded as an infringement of what was right. Apparently the attitude of the authorities in Czechoslovakia is that they have the right of denial of free speech not only to ordinary citizens of this country but also to members of our Parliament. In Czechoslovakia today, I repeat, there is less freedom than in any other country in Europe. Religious freedom has been denied the people. The bishops of the principal church must be members of the Government sponsored organisation. There is no general freedom. Yet we in this country receive a diplomatic representative of the puppet government which tyrannises the Czech people because Red Army bayonets are available to back it. I look forward to our Government issuing a protest this week on this fifth anniversary of that attack on human rights. If our Government were to do that, there would be less of those accusations that our Government is anxious always to protest against infringements by non-communist countries but is silent when wrong is done by communist countries. 
On this question, may I say that there has been considerable interference by our Government in the affairs of other governments. If I am asked for an example, I point out that the presence of American troops is a difficult question for countries in South East Asia. But in spite of that, the Australian Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  intervened in an unjustifiable way by making statements saying that the people of Thailand should get rid of the American forces there. This provoked an outburst by a leading Thai government member who was featured in our papers as saying:  'Mr Whitlam  should mind his own bloody business'. Following upon that, although South Vietnam is a friendly country and although our Government had been thundering about attacks by sabotage or guerrilla forces on Yugoslavia, representatives of our Government met and welcomed here representatives of the Vietcong who at present, in defiance of the Paris Treaty, are making attacks upon the people of South Vietnam. We have diplomatic representation with that country. If it is good enough for our Government to protest when people attempt to go to Yugoslavia, why is it that we do not protest at the Vietcong? Instead we welcome them to our country. 
I turn to the United States of America. We all heard the interventions not only by the Prime Minister but also by other Ministers in the affairs of the United States. Gratuitous insults were offered. Then the Prime Minister determined that he would go to the United States. He went to the United States. He met  President  Nixon. He came away and said that everything had been smoothed over, that the attacks would end and that he would stop his Ministers, including even  Dr Cairns.  Yet, the Prime Minister was hardly out of Washington before he levelled at  President  Nixon a sailor's farewell. What would we say if  President  Nixon issued a statement in regard to the ASIO case? What would we say if he and his Ministers made statements about ASIO similiar to those that the Prime Minister and Ministers in our country have made about Watergate? We would say that it was a shocking infringement of the relationship between the 2 nations. But there are double standards in our Government. It reserves the right to insult others but it firmly objects to anybody even criticising it. 
In the case of Britain and the Commonwealth Prime Ministers' Conference, no one can object if there were hot words between the Prime Minister of Britain and the Prime Minister of Australia. But what was the necessity to continue the argument after the conference was over by making sneering refences to the British Prime Minister and by suggesting that in Australia we are getting rid fast of the British tradition? We may be, but why stress the fact? We owe a lot to Britain. We owe a lot to the country from which many of the people in this country originally came. What was the necessity to sneer and to say: 'Well, it will not be for long before we will have forgotten the British tradition'? I have a regard for the British people. We can stand up and talk about multi-national corporations - that is all right - but why go past that? Particularly when the conference at which the fight occurred is over, why gratuitously flash insults from this country when there is no need to do that? 
I come next to Lee Kuan Yew. Once again, our Prime Minister had the right, if hot words were being used, to come back. But he made the allegations that he did about Lee Kuan Yew and the state of affairs in the government of his country, and suggested that Lee Kuan Yew was no democrat. Anybody with any fair mindedness would know what Lee Kuan Yew has had to deal with and what he has had to put up with. I always remember somebody from the Australian Broadcasting Commission going to Singapore and being primed to ask all the wrong questions. He interviewed Lee Kuan Yew there for ABC television. He said to him: 'Is it not terrible that in your country you have some communists in prison?' Lee Kuan Yew said: That is right'. This representative of the ABC said: 'Now, is that not very undemocratic?' Lee Kuan Yew said: 'I suppose it is. But what you have to realise is that if the communists ever get control of this country they will shoot me. I do not shoot them. I just put them in prison until they get over it'. One can make all the criticism that one likes to make about Lee Kuan Yew, but one should remember that when he came into power he was faced with an almost impossible situation. It was a city with almost impossible problems to overcome, but he has got over them. If anybody were to say to me that it would have been possible to do so with democracy, pure and undefiled, I would say to them that their attitude was most unfair. 
I will deal with the question of France later. I am disappointed with the attitude being adopted by the Australian Government, which can only be described as a hypocritical one. We have har1 thunderings about the atomic tests in the Pacific. We went to the International Court of Justice and at it portrayed France as a criminal. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Poyser)  - Order! Interjections are out of order,  Senator Webster,  particularly when they are made by an honourable senator when he is out of his proper place. 
 We endeavoured to get the other countries of the world to condemn France. What happened almost immediately afterwards? Chou En-lai declared that China sympathised with and supported the actions of France in exploding atomic bombs. He declared that China would continue to explode them, even though she was exploding them close to areas of very heavy population, whereas the French were exploding their bombs in an area where there is a very small population. The crime of the Chinese is obviously worse. What happened while we had our Attorney-General before the International Court of Justice lambasting the people of France?  Dr J.  F. Cairns was feting in Australia the representatives of communist China and concluding with them a trade treaty which described them as being, in the eyes of the Whitlam Government, the most favoured nation. Has there ever been anything the equal of that which would make the head of the average Australian citizen hang in shame? Here we have a country which not only supports the exploding of bombs but also intends to explode more bombs and to explode them in areas of heavy population in South East Asia and the Whitlam Government says that it is the most favoured nation in our eyes. 
What have we done about Taiwan? The Taiwanese people never did us an injury. They were friendly to us on all occasions. Representatives of our Government went to Peking and there announced that it would recognise the Peking Government and declared that it would not recognise the Taiwan Government on the ground that it  was  a part of China. Is there anybody here who does not know that Taiwan is de facto an independent state? Could Chou En-lai or one of his policemen go to Taiwan? Does the fiat of the Chinese Government run in Taiwan? Not at all. Taiwan is de facto an independent government. We have recognised de facto independent governments in Germany and Vietnam. 
We rushed in to recognise Bangladesh. It was said by our Government that in China it is claimed that China is one country and that therefore we could not recognise both. But we recognised Pakistan originally as covering Bangladesh too. When the time came to do so we did not say, as we had said in China, that one cannot recognise both. What we said, hypocritically, was: We will recognise Bangladesh'. We still have an ambassador for Pakistan in Australia and, as far as his writ runs, he is the ambassador for Pakistan and Bangladesh. But the Government has said: 'No, there will be a separate Bangladesh'. It is time our Government gave up all of its meanderings and twistings. When one recognises a government one docs not set out the geographical boundaries upon which one is recognising that government. When one recognises China one does not say in the instrument of recognition that it includes Taiwan. One simply says that one recognises China. What one is recognising apparently depends upon the government concerned. There is no reason why we do not recognise Taiwan, other than that we are subservient to Peking. Is it any wonder that in South East Asia diplomats are describing the Australian Government as the running dog of Chairman Mao? 
The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has said: 'We will still trade with Taiwan. We do not want to lose its money. But we will not have a trade mission there and we will not allow our trade representatives to go there. We could not do that because we have recognised 'Peking'. The Japanese had no difficulty.  All  they did was to declare that their diplomatic mission in Taipei was an international trade commission. The same organisation is still functioning there in the same way. Canada has trade representatives and trade missions in Taipei. Those countries have not laid down at the feet of Chou En-lai - and said: 'Do with us what you want'. Those countries have stood on their own feet and said: 'We will recognise you but we are not going to be completely subservient and slavish to you. Why does the Australian Government not stand up for itself? Why does it say in the case of trade missions that they cannot be there? Why does it say that a Taiwanese basketball team will not be allowed into Australia? One will not be allowed in because Chou En-lai might not like it being allowed in. We cannot bring an athlete to Australia from Taiwan because Chou En-lai might not like the idea of him being brought here. It appears to me that every now and again in relation to everything that happens in connection with the East our Government rings up Chou En-lai and says: Please can we . . .?' 
Our recognition, of course, took place in circumstances that were a grave embarrassment to the countries of South East Asia with which we are friendly. If one were to speak to diplomats from Thailand, the Philippines, Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia one would find that they were gravely embarrassed by the rush of the Australian Government to recognise Peking. We have been pretending that we want to be close friends with those countries. We have said to them: 'We want to associate with you and work with you as a friend and neighbour', but we did not consult them before we recognised Peking. By rushing in hastily and not consulting with the friendly countries of South East Asia we placed them in a position of the utmost embarrassment. 
To give an example of what they are afraid of, I will take Indonesia, which still has one of the largest communist parties underground in the East. Indonesia has to reflect upon the fact that if it recognises Peking China it could find that that country will bring to Indonesia a couple of hundred alleged diplomats who would really be organisers of a communist revolution in Indonesia. The Indonesians have to be very careful. There is almost a 50/50 Chinese/ Malayan community in Malaysia. It is pretty awkward for that country. I spoke to one of the diplomats of another country in South East Asia the other night and he said to me: 'This is a very large problem for us. One of our Government representatives went to Peking and discussed the possibility of our recognising Peking. He said to Chou En-lai: "We would have to ask that you do not interfere in the affairs of our country". Chou En-lai said willingly: "We will not interfere in the affairs of your country". This government representative of a South East Asian nation said: "That is good. That means that you will cut off aid to the National Liberation Front". Chou En-lai said: "Oh, no. A national liberation front is not interference".' These countries have a lot of problems, and they have not been helped by the manner in which we rushed in headlong to recognise China when they at least had the right to expect us to consult them and talk it over. 
We have been told that, after all, our Government had to do it because Nixon had gone to Peking and that once Nixon went there we had to recognise China. This is a government which says: 'We will never tune in with LBJ'. What did it do as soon as Nixon went to Peking? It tuned in with Nixon. It said: Nixon has gone there, so we have to recognise China'. But Nixon has not recognised Peking. Then the Government said: 'We cannot recoghnise Taiwan. Everyone is dropping it'. Is the Government aware that since Nixon went to Peking his relations with Taiwan have become stronger? For years the United States Government would not give uranium to Taiwan. It has now decided to give uranium to Taiwan. For years the United States Government would not train submarine crews for Taiwan. Now it has agreed to train submarine crews. It has promised Taiwan considerable military assistance, and it is also helping Taiwan's development by providing loans. Our Government says: 'What we did, we did because Nixon went to Peking and we could not do anything else but break off relations with Taiwan'. Nixon has been to Peking.  His  relations with Taiwan are stronger now. Where does that argument get the present Government? 
I appeal to the Prime Minister to give up the Foreign Ministery, in the interests of Australia. We have a new government. Most of its members, if not all, are completely inexperienced. They have a very difficult task. Even in old, established governments there are often stresses and strains between different Ministers and departments. In those circumstances it is vital that the Prime Minister should be at home, freely available for consultation and freely available to exert discipline in his Ministry when it is necessary. In the first 12 months at least he should be on tap in this country to keep his Government on the rails. Since the election he has been on the move. He loves the guards of honour. He is trailing around the country with an entourage behind him as big as the tail of Halley's Comet. I can understand  Mr Whitlam,  in his exuberance at being Prime Minister, wanting to parade before the guards of honour, to attend the State dinners, to appear before the national Press clubs and so on. It is very heady wine. But he has had a go. I think that he should now stay in the country for a week or two and do a job of work for Australia. 
I believe that one of his crucial mistakes when he became Prime Minister was to take the Foreign Ministry. It is too big a job for a man to share with the Prime Ministership. It is an 18-hours a day job, according to a previous Foreign Minister. I know that  Mr Whitlam  loves it and loves to get away. He should make up his mind that, in the interests of his Ministry, in the interests of Australia and in the interests of the Labor Party, he will stay at home and be available. It would be good for the Labor Party if he did that. He should try to do something about inflation, which is getting worse and worse. When the people of Australia are called upon to vote they will not remember that he attended a state dinner with  Mrs Gandhi  or that he saw  President  Nixon and had a guard of honour or that  Mr Trudeau  took him to a special government banquet somewhere out in the snow. When the time to vote comes the people of Australia will remember what he did about inflation, what he did to stop his Ministers attacking one another and attacking the leaders of foreign countries and what he did to keep his Ministers together as a disciplined force doing what is necessary to be a successful government. 
I see a great resemblance between  Mr Whitlam  and Harold Wilson of Great Britain. Both are men of attractive appearance. Both speak fluently. Both do well on television. Both are masters of the biting and the cutting answer. Both have that little trace of arrogance. When  Mr Wilson  went on television, as he did on many nights, and put over these cutting quips and these spurts of humour, everybody laughed at him and said: 'By jove, he is funny. He is cute'. But when the election came they voted for the stolid, serious man who never laughed but who. in their opinion, would get down to the job of being Prime Minister in a serious way. There will be an election one day. Some people in the Labor Party are honest enough to say that their stocks have fallen a bit, but they say: Whitlam has made such a good impression that he will carry the rest through'. All I can say to them is that people in Britain said that about Harold Wilson. They said: 'He is such a tremendous figure, so attractive on television. He makes everybody laugh'. They said that about him, but Wilson was a one-termer. 
When it came to the election after he attained power, with all his posturing, all his fun, all his sneers and all his quips, they preferred the man whom they thought would do a serious job of work. 
I regret to inform the House that  Senator Gair  suffered a very painful but fortunately not a serious injury over the weekend and has not been able to attend the sitting of the Senate. Because of the fact that this Bill has very serious implications which are known to all honourable senators, because we wish to consider these matters with our leader and because he informs me that he intends to be here either tomorrow or the day after, I would ask for the indulgence of the Senate and move: 
That the debate bc now adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)  - Before proceeding further, I wish to state on behalf of all honourable senators that I am sure it is with very deep regret that we hear of the accident of  Senator Gair.  We hope that it will not be long before he is restored to good health again. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for the Media, refers to 2 very disturbing statements on the administration of the arts which recently came to my notice - the first by a leading figure in the field of theatre who said that slick administrators of the Government's art program are jet-planing all over Australia on missions which could be settled by a telephone call, and the second by  Sir Robert  Helpman n, the Director of the Australian Ballet, who said that too many people who know nothing about the threatre  are running around in big Commonwealth cars getting far more money than the performing artists, and that the Australian Council for the Arts is being wrongly administered. Will the Government inquire into these allegations that money for the arts is being spent extravagantly? 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the Film and Television School Bill and is pleased to facilitate its passage through the Senate. There is, however, one thing I would like to say. Many of us had high hopes that the new policies on arts embarked upon by the Government would bring about a new era in the arts in Australia. I regret to say - I asked a question about this today but I will not refer to it now - that I am being inundated with complaints from people associated with the arts who say that control of a number of these developments, particularly through the Australian Council for the Arts, appears to have been placed in the hands of a -small minority in whom many of them do nol have a great deal of confidence. I am concerned also about suggestions in a number oi newspapers which indicate that there is unnecessary extravagance in spending on the part of some of the new appointees. I do not want to labour the question. Like other honourable senators I am interested in the arts but 1 am not an expert on the arts in Australia. However I could not help but he concerned when a wide variety of people, including distinguished Australians like  Sir Robert  Helpmann, said that they were gravely concerned about what was going on. I urge the Government to look into these matters and ensure that development of the arts in the future will be what they want it to be. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it a fact that  Dr Klugman,  a member of this Parliament, was refused entrance to Czechoslovakia by the communist government? What were the reasons for the refusal? Has the Australian Government taken this matter up with the Czechoslovakian Government and, if so, with what results. 
In view of that list of people, groups and organisations which the Government has offended - the farmers, the manufacturers, the East European migrants, the doctors, the motorists, the smokers, the newspapers and the media - any talk about a double dissolution appeals to my sense of humour. If there were a double dissolution in the next fortnight the Government would not be able to get control of the Senate. No matter what happens in the next Parliament the DLP will have the balance of power in the Senate. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order! 
 Mr Acting Deputy President,  I understand that it is the wish of the Government that a decision on this Commonwealth Electoral Bill should be arrived at as soon as possible, principally because the Government has stated that it wishes to place itself in the position to be able to obtain a double dissolution at the appropriate time. I am unable to confirm or deny rumours that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is waiting impatiently in his office and that he has a car waiting with its engine running to convey him to see the GovernorGeneral. But whatever the circumstances, we in the Australian Democratic Labor Party will agree to the Government's request. What I shall say will be very brief. We will vote against the Bill and place the Government in the position of getting a double dissolution if it wants one. 
I believe that I should refer to statements in a section of the Press to the effect that because I asked for an adjournment of one day yesterday, my Party was having second thoughts and might not vote just as we voted 3 months ago. I want to make it clear that the usual procedure in this Senate when a Bill is introduced is for it to be adjourned for several days - in some cases for a week or more. Therefore, when I applied for an adjournment of one day it was not with any idea of holding up the decision, but rather because the Leader of my Party had had a painful but not serious accident. He was in Brisbane and we wished at least to consult him on this matter, which is a very important one, as it could eventually result in the termination of the life of this Parliament. I therefore say that we considered the Bill this morning, we consulted  Senator Gair  by telephone and we were unanimous in our opinion that this was an undesirable Bill - just as undesirable as when we dealt with it 3 months ago. We are therefore determined to vote against it. We are quite happy; the Government will be quite happy. I am sure that our decision will make for good feeling all round. 
I do not propose to traverse all the arguments which I used 3 months ago. They can be found in Hansard. I merely want to say that this Bill contains provisions which would revoke principles that have been accepted in this Parliament almost since Federation. It is a new step; therefore it is a step that has to be considered very carefully, because the Government has indicated that it proposes to accompany this Bill by other Bills which could radically alter the electoral system and the structure of Parliament. The Government claims that it is doing this only out of a feeling for electoral justice. It will be a new thing for any government to be in favour of electoral justice. In my view the attitude of governments towards matters such as these is not: Is it electoral justice? The attitude of governments is: Who is going to win? In this case I think the Bill should be considered as part of a package deal whereby the Government proposes to alter the electoral system to its advantage. 
If the Government really wants electoral justice, the door is wide open. It can introduce a system of proportional representation in the House of Representatives. To those who might suggest that this is the view of my Party only, I refer them to the strong statements of  Mr Clyde  Cameron, the Minister for Labour, in the debates in the lower House and also on the occasion when he recently addressed the Henry George League of South Australia.  Mr Clyde  Cameron made the point with great firmness that the system which in his view would give justice to Australia and which would be quite satisfactory for the Labor movement was the proportional representation system. When I was speaking in the debate on this Bill some 3 months ago I mentioned that a report on the proportional representation system had been prepared by a committee of the Victorian branch of the Australian Labor Party and that distinguished members of that committee were the late  Senator Sam  Cohen and the present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Gordon  Bryant. I pointed out that the committee brought in a report which stated that electoral justice could best be obtained by introducing a system of proportional representation and that if such a system had existed the complaints of the Labor Party over a number of elections to the effect that it had received a majority of votes but a minority of seats would have been unnecessary. I tried to have that report incorporated in Hansard but a member of the Labor Party denied me leave to do so. 
I do not wish to labour the point except to say again that if electoral justice is wanted it can be obtained by proportional representation. To those who say that the Australian Democratic Labor Party is putting up this principle only because it might profit from it, I point out that representives of the Australian Labor Party have examined the matter and have reported that that Party would profit by the introduction of such a system. We are not holding up the Bill. We reject any suggestion that we should be afraid of a double dissolution. Finally, I make this prediction: If there is a double dissolution the Government will not win a majority in the Senate, but it will lose its majority in the House of Representatives. 
This Budget is a most unsatisfactory one. It is unsatisfactory because it was presented by a Treasurer who was the prisoner of promises that had been made by his Leader,  Mr Whitlam. Mr Whitlam  made promises to win an election, without regard to the possible effect on the country's economy. That is the principal reason why this Budget is unsatisfactory. I have respect for  Mr Crean.  He is a man of great sincerity and a man who has given a great deal of time to pledging himself to deal with his country's economic problems. Even  Mr Crean  has been unable to conceal the fact that if he had had his way this Budget would have been a very different one. I believe that he was overruled on a number of the decisions which were made and that, if the Government had taken more account of his views and the views which the Treasury has indicated in a paper which it has issued, md which expressed grave concern about the trend of the economy under the Labor Government's Budget, we would have had a very different Budget and one which would have at least made a proper effort to cope with tha inflation spiral. 
To show the difference between what  Mr Crean  would have liked and what was forced on him by his Leader's pre-election promises, let us look at the question of income tax. In my view, it is the fairest method of taxation. I have always been biased in favour of income tax and opposed to indirect taxation. At present, in order to find the money to cope with the lavish promises which were made by his Leader,  Mr Crean  is forbidden from implementing increases in income tax, which would have been fairer, and has had to resort to indirect taxation. In my view, it is a most unfair form of taxation because, to a large degree, it places almost the same burden on the poor man as it places upon the man of wealth. I think I would agree with  Mr Crean's  statement that if he gets the opportunity in future he will direct his attention to the field of direct taxation rather than to the field of indirect taxation which is promoting inflation and. which is so unfair to the poorer people in the community. 
It was interesting to note that when the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  who was taking a few hours off from his duties as company director, was asked what he thought about this Budget he declared that in his opinion the blot upon the Budget was the fact that it resorted to indirect taxation which pressed heavily on the workers and was unfair to the workers. I agree with  Mr Hawke,  who was merely expressing an obvious opinion and one that should have come from a .trade union leader. I think that it is significant that the Federal  President  of the Australian Labor Party brands this Budget as unsatisfactory  n  that respect because, he said, it should not impose indirect taxation on the people to the extent that it did. If taxation had to be raised obviously it should have been raised by the fairer and direct method. 
The biggest objection to this Budget is that the Treasurer has not been allowed to implement obvious measures which are necessary to cope with inflation. The rate of inflation is 13 per cent or 14 per cent. Predictions are being made freely that it will increase. The paper which the Treasury issued recently in regard to trends in the economy leads one to only one conclusion, and that is that the Treasury believes that this Budget will bring about an increase in inflation. We know what inflation does. It takes value out of the workers pay packet. The truest thing Ben Chifley ever said was: Tt is not the number of pounds in your pay packet that counts, it is what you can buy with it'. Today under this heavily increasing inflation the worker is finding that value is being taken out of his pay packet. Every now and again one reads in newspapers that a particular increase has been granted or enforced. But what does it mean? It means that as a result of the inflation that has occurred since the Labor Government took office every increase the worker gets is rapidly taken from him. People on fixed incomes are, of course, the worst off of all; they have fixed incomes from investments but those investments are losing value almost every day. The person on the fixed income who a few years ago considered himself or herself as having reasonable resources threatens to become the new poor. Consider insurance policies. People who years ago paid for insurance in pounds that were worth something - or who paid for insurance even a year or two ago in dollars that were worth something - find that when their claims come to be paid they will receive payment in debased currency, currency which has lost value under the Labor Government and which is losing value to the extent of 14 per cent. Consider the cost of homes. A newspaper published today contained a statement by a Melbourne estate agent that in some areas the cost of a block of land is going up by $200 a week. What is the Government going to do about that? There are obvious measures. 
 It is a Federal Budget which we are considering. If the honourable senator wants a debate on Hamer he should ask his representatives in the Victorian Parliament to launch it. They do not seem to be dealing too well with Hamer at the moment. Consider the price of homes, the sum which young people have to pay as a deposit for a home and the heavy burden of loan money which they must impose upon themselves and their families as inflation increases daily the prices of homes and land. Consider prices generally. Prices are going up every day - and what do we get from the Government? Only pious platitudes and a statement that it is instituting tribunals to examine prices. Why does this Government not do the right thing and admit straight out that it does not have the constitutional power to control prices? And why does not this Government on the next suitable occasion seek Federal powers to control prices in this country? If it is game to do so, I will support it. I say once again to the Government that if it wants to control prices then the only solution is to hold a Federal referendum at which it should ask the people to give it the power to control prices instead of doing what it is doing at present. 
I will support it. I say that what the Government says it has done to control prices is complete nonsense. It knows perfectly well that it has only set up a smokescreen before the people; it knows perfectly well that this has not had the slightest effect except one which was that as soon as many of the business firms heard of the intention of the Government to institute this tribunal to examine prices, they all rushed round and put up their prices in anticipation of what that tribunal would do. The biggest upsurge in prices this year came as soon as the Government announced that it intended to bring down legislation for the purpose of examining price increases. The Government should have the sense to admit that it does not have constitutional power to control prices. The only hope the Government has of controlling prices is not to set up these boards or tribunals, which are only a smokescreen, but to implement sound economic policies. That is the way it will control prices. 
The Government tied the hands of the Treasurer and said to him: 'Look, you cannot bring in a deflationary budget because we have promised all kinds of things; we have promised to spend money left, right and centre'. Therefore the Government told the Treasurer: 'It cannot be a deflationary budget'. Then it told the Treasurer that nothing could be done about income tax. It told him all sorts of other things that he could not do owing to the promises made by his leader to get into power. While that is the situation, one cannot expect to see any effective action in this country to deal with inflation. 
One thing the Government did, of course, was to bring  Dr Coombs  into the field. He has what is called a task force. I had thought this was an anti-militaristic Government but it has established a task force under  Dr Coombs.  I could not imagine anything more embarrassing for a Treasurer who is trying to handle the affairs of his country than to have this particular gentleman - who is of great ability, no doubt - imposed on him for the purpose of determining where certain savings can be made and where certain moneys should be spent. I think that  Mr Crean  and the representatives of the Treasury were quite capable of doing the job just as it had been done under government for years past. I do not see why we should have had this particular body prying into every nook and corner, suggesting 'You can screw a few bob here and a few bob there'. While it has been endeavouring to get a few bob out of a corner here and a few bob there, Ministers have been competing for the number of millions they can spend on projects many of which are of very doubtful value to the community. We have at the moment a Cabinet of jubilee plungers. Every Minister seems to be attempting to set up a bigger and bigger empire; every Minister seems to think it is necessary for him to display himself abroad. When the Ministers have gone abroad - in a few cases I am prepared to accept that the entourage they took was reasonable - it seems that the only limit they were prepared to make to the numbers they would take on their trips abroad lay in the capacity of the accommodation for them. I think that while allowing for the starry-eyed atmosphere which surrounded Ministers when they first took office it is time that they settled down and concluded that governments abroad are not hungering to see every one of them. It is time that they settled down and realised that the finances of the country are not a bottomless pit - and it is time that some discipline was instituted in the Cabinet. It is time that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  stayed home a bit longer and said to many of them: 'You had better stop wheeling up project after project to spend more money. You have to be reasonable about these things. There must be discipline'. Instead of every Minister saying: 'I am going to have this, this and this', the Prime Minister ought to sit down with the Treasurer and tell them they have to take their turn. 
One area in which I think the effects of the Budget will be extremely miserable is that of the schools which are to be deprived of per capita payments. I have dealt with this elsewhere and I do not propose to spend much time on it except to say that when one considers the millions of dollars that are being lavished in other directions it would not have taken much for the Government tb have decided it would carry out  Mr Whitlam's  promise that no aid being given before the election would be ended. He made that promise in Melbourne's Festival Hall - I heard him - and he lapped up the applause that he got for it. Now, for the sake of a few millions he or his Government proposes to break his word. Before leaving the subject I again appeal to him by saying that, because of what he promised, he should continue the per capita payments as they are now to every school. In regard to additional money he has the right to claim a mandate to proceed on a needs basis. 
I cannot understand why 105 schools should be deprived of this money when the Prime Minister is prepared to spend millions and millions of dollars on free education for university and tertiary institution students. When I heard today of the disgraceful manner in which students at one of our Victorian universities had rabbled and ill-treated the ambassador of a friendly country who had come to address them, and when I learned how those ignorant yahoos had broken every principle of freedom of speech and expression, I said to myself: 'There ought not to be free university education for people of that type'. Anyone who reads the reports of the universities throughout Australia will find in them the clear statement that there are thousands of students attending universities these days who will not complete even their first year. 
Before the Government says that it will spend without limit and that it will make university education free to everybody who wants to go to a university, I think it should say to the universities: 'You have to establish a method of examining these people to see who is fit for entry to a university and who is not'. I have sat on Senate committees of inquiry into education which have had astonishing, appalling figures offered to them of the degree to which people who go to universities, in many cases at the Government's expense and last at them for only the briefest of periods. In some courses 50 per cent of the students do not last even to the end of the first year. I think the Government is guilty of reckless extravagance when it makes an elaborate gesture and says: 'We will make university education completely free' - particularly when the records indicate that the money which it is going to spend on a large number of these people is going to be poured down the drain. I believe that the universities of this country should be called upon to institute some system of examination of prospective students - 'based on school records, if you like, but also based on a psychological examination and other forms of entry examination - to ensure that the Government will not be lavishing upon university education millions of dollars that could be well spent in other directions. 
I repeat that I cannot understand why a few million dollars should be taken away from 105 schools at the same time as the Government is opening up its coffers and throwing millions and millions of dollars to university students. I believe that students who are qualified and who are the right type ought to be given every possible assistance to attend a university, but I do not believe in assistance being given to people who are obviously not fit to go to a university, who never should have gone to one, who pull out before the end of the first year and who in many cases because they cannot cope with the courses they have undertaken resort to the kind of hooliganism that was practised today on the ambassador of a friendly nation. 
This Budget is not the kind of Budget on which the Government should go to the people. I know that today the Opposition has facilitated the wish of the Government to be in a position to be able to call for a double dissolution. Why would it not do so? One has only to talk to people throughout the community to ascertain that the Government has offended many sectors of the community. Firstly, it has offended the farmers. One would almost think from some of the things that are going to be done to the farmers that all of them have been rolling in wealth for years and that they are still rolling in wealth. Only about 2 or  2i  years ago farmers were walking off their blocks, fruit growers were pulling up their trees and sheep farmers were losing their holdings because they could not get credit and were so much in debt. Farmers came to me and confessed that they had reached the stage where they had had to borrow money at 14 per cent interest in order to try to keep things going. They wanted to know what could be done to assist them. People who have owned their properties for years may be in a good position, but one has to take into consideration the fact that there are large numbers of farmers who are buying their properties and who are financing themselves on credit. 
I am shocked at the attitude that I have heard expressed in some Government circles that all of the farmers who only a couple of years ago were in a desperate situation - we knew that they were in a desperate situation then because we debated' their circumstances - are now so well off that we should take away from them the assistance which has been given to them over the years and which in my view has not been misused in 90 per cent or 95 per cent of the cases. I am appalled particularly at the suggestions which have been put forward by those people who talk about the 5 per cent or 10 per cent who may have misused their opportunities but who pay no regard to the 90 per cent or 95 per cent who have been decent, good farmers and who have also been - some people laugh at the idea - to a large extent the backbone of this country. They were the backbone of the industries which kept this country going before mining and other industries came to the fore. 
As well as offending the farmers the Government has offended the young married couples by taking away the homes savings grant. It has also offended the manufacturers. Thousands and thousands of dollars were collected prior to the last House of Representatives election from manufacturers in my State of Victoria by a senior representative of the Australian Labor Party, who told them that if Labor got into office it would safeguard the tariff system. The manufacturers contributed thousands of dollars. An official of the Labor Party in my State said that the Labor Party had never before received so much money from the manufacturing industries.  Dr Jim  Cairns assured them that everything would be all right if Labor got into office. But what happened when Labor got into office? The Prime Minister said: T will be in charge of tariffs.' Of course that enabled Jim Cairns to say: 'I am very sorry, gentlemen, but it is not in my hands'. Honourable senators would be amazed at the sums of money the manufacturers gave to the Labor movement prior to 2 December last on the understanding that the tariff system would be looked after. As I said to them, their trouble was that they did not know it was loaded. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)  - Order! 
The Government has also offended the migrants, particularly the East Europeans. The manner in which one group of East European migrants, the Croats, has been treated by the Government has been regarded by migrants as an indication of the true feeling of the Labor Party towards them. It will be of no use for the Labor Party at the next election to seek the votes of the East European migrants. The Government has offended the doctors. It has offended the motorist. It has offended the smoker. It has offended the newspapers. It has attacked the media. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order! 
We had the balance of power when we had only 2 members of this chamber and we will have the balance of power irrespective of whether we have 2, 3, 4 or 5 members in the next Senate. So if the Government calls for a double dissolution- 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order!  Senator McLaren,  I have called you to order on at least 4 occasions in the last 10 minutes. If I have to do so again, I will have to consider your conduct with respect to the Standing Orders as being disorderly. 
If this Government goes to a double dissolution it cannot get a majority in the Senate, which would be the ostensible purpose of taking that action, and it will lose in the House of Represenatives. If it does that its Party will never forgive it. Finally, I want to make some references to the question of defence. This Government was so desperate to save money for extravagant adventures in other directions that it determined to do so by cutting down on defence. We have heard the statement made that it is able to do so because Australia has nothing to fear for 10 years. That is not an original statement. The Government took it from John Gorton. In the kind of world in which we live, how can anybody say that we have nothing to fear for 10 years? Does the Government propose to cut our defences to such a degree that we will be left open to a sudden and unexpected attack? 
I remember that years ago a gentleman used to come to my office in the Melbourne Trades Hall once a week. It would have been in 1948 or 1949. His son had been a member of the Australian forces who went away after Japan entered the war, when so many Australians were sent away without equipment and without training. His son was one of those who were captured and taken to Ambon, where he was killed by the Japanese. This father came to me and said that he did not mind his son dying for his country but he objected to his son being called upon to die for his country when the people he was with were sent away almost without weapons with which to fight. 
 Senator Gietzelt  says that that was under the Menzies Government. Let us be honest. Before the Second World War broke out the Australian Labor Party was running organisations demanding the disarmament of Australia. Let us be honest about that point. 
Curtin said not so long before the 1939 War broke out that Australia had nothing to fear for years to come. We live in a world of violence. We were the luckiest people in the world that Sukarno was not able to hand Indonesia over to the communists when they attempted to take control. Fortunately that attempt was held off by General Nasution and General Suharto. I believe that in a world of violence we ought to retain adequate defences. We promised our allies in ANZUS that we would be as self-sufficient as we could be in weapons and that our defences would be adequate to give assistance in an emergency if we were called upon collectively. 
What is happening with the Army? It will be cut to about 31,000 or 32,000 personnel, which will mean that we will have only about 5,000 people who will be able to bear arms.  Mr Whitlam  went to see  President  Nixon and, according to the Press, told him that Australia would not be isolationist. What can Australia be but isolationist when we will have only 5,000 troops capable of bearing arms, when this Government has decided that it will not buy the destroyers that were promised and when the Air Force will not get the aeroplanes that were promised? Why are the savings being made? They are being made because the Government made extravagant promises in other directions and, having made those promises, in order to get the money it needed it determined that the appropriate place to make cuts was in the defence field. During World I and Word War II we were lucky because we had Great Britain and other countries which could take the strain of the war for 6 to 12 months while we were training our troops and getting the equipment that, we did not have. But Great Britain has gone. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)-  -Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. Was the Minister for Overseas Trade,  Dr Cairns,  advised prior to his departure for Japan of the impending decision to revalue the Australian dollar? If not, was not the Minister placed in a most humiliating and embarrassing position when he and his advisers went to Japan to negotiate on a basis which was very much altered as soon as he arrived in Japan? What will be the effect of the revaluation decision on contracts for Australian exports to Japan, particularly in minerals? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. It refers to a statement in a speech to the grocery manufacturers by the Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  on 6 September, a copy of which was placed on my desk this morning.  Mr Crean  is stated to have said: 'I find myself by some strange good fortune in a very happy and confident situation. The fact is that by practically any test we care to make the Australian economy today is thriving and the immediate future looks good'. Could we be advised, if it is true that the economy is thriving and the future looks good, why the Treasury has just issued a statement warning in very serious terms of the dangers in the present economic situation and why the Government has started to implement a credit squeeze? 
Briefly I indicate that the Australian Democratic Labor Party will support the amendment. I join with  Senator Greenwood  in expressing pleasure that the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  has moved this amendment.  Senator Greenwood  has referred to the fact that I raised this matter at some length when the Bill was being considered in the previous sitting. I did so because of a discussion which took place quite a few years ago when the then Leader of the Australian Labor Party in the Senate,  Senator McKenna,  joined with me in expressing concern at the fact that it could be interpreted that in certain cases the onus of proof of the bona fides of a person against whom an extradition order was sought might be upon the person rather than, in some cases, the overseas country in circumstances in which the person whose extradition was sought might not be able to put his case strongly. However, I am very glad that the endeavours which  Senator Nicholas  McKenna, who has left a fragrant memory in this Senate, and I put forward on that occasion and which were not so successful then have been successful with  Senator Murphy,  and I thank  Senator Murphy  for what he has done. 
I feel that as those honourable senators who have spoken on behalf of other parties have stated their parties ' policies on this matter I should state the policy of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. The policy of the DLP is that we support world nuclear disarmament. We have supported every move which has been made at the United Nations and elsewhere to achieve world nuclear disarmament. But in the world in which we live it has not been possible so far to obtain world nuclear disarmament because of the refusal of the communist countries- particularly the Soviet Union- to agree to a system of inspection which would make any system of world nuclear disarmament trustworthy. In the circumstances we say that, as it is not possible because of this refusal to co-operate by certain nations which are already armed with nuclear weapons, it is necessary that other countries in their own interestsand Australia- should endeavour to obtain a deterrent which is the only method of defence against nuclear attack. 
Like  Senator O'Byrne,  I attended the Civil Defence School at Mount Macedon. Like most of those who attended that School I came away with the firm conviction that it is impossible to do anything really worthwhile for civil defence where one nation is attacked and other other has no means to deter the attacker by the ability to reply. In those circumstances we came to the conclusion that the only defence against nuclear attack was the ability to reply. But it is only in those circumstances that we have declared that Australia should seek to have a deterrent available, preferably a deterrent made available by one of our allies which has the ability to use that form of attack. 
In our attitude we are not without support. When the recent nuclear disarmament treaty was under consideration a number of countries refused to be associated with it. One of these countries was India. Nobody would describe  Mrs Ghandi  as a warmonger. Nobody would describe her as a person who believed in war and in the use of nuclear bombs. But  Mrs Ghandi  refused to allow India to accede to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty because she said that under that Treaty the nations which already possessed nuclear arms would be safeguarded and there would be no guarantee of safeguards for other countries. 
At the moment India, on her border, has 2 powerful neighbours with nuclear arms- the Soviet Union and China. One can understand the attitude of  Mrs Ghandi  who, at the United Nations through her representatives, said frankly that she would sign the Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty if the nations which had nuclear arms- great nations like Britain, the United States and the Soviet Union- would guarantee to defend, if necessary with nuclear weapons, any country such as India or Australia which might be attacked by a country having nuclear arms. She made it perfectly clear that that would be the condition under which India would renounce the ability to obtain the bomb. The nations which have backed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty have made it clear that if a nuclear war broke out and they were attacked they would use their nuclear weapons as a deterrent. They have also made it clear that in the event of some other countries like India or Australia being attacked they would regard what happened with the utmost sympathy. They would have the utmost sympathy for Australia, France or India, but they would not guarantee that they would under any circumstance necessarily use the nuclear bomb to protect those countries. That is why countries such as France and India refuse to be associated with nuclear disarmament as propounded by the great nations which already have the bomb. Australia wants nuclear disarmament. India wants nuclear disarmament. West Germany wants nuclear disarmament. The trouble is that they are faced with the problem that they are a part of a world in which the great powers which have the bomb are determined to retain it but refuse to guarantee the defence or protection of other countries which do not have the bomb should they be attacked by a country which has the bomb. 
That is the situation today. We of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, like the  President  of India,  Mrs Ghandi,  and the rulers of other countries, believe that everything possible should be done to achieve world nuclear disarmament, but in the event of certain powers refusing to guarantee the protection of countries which are not nuclear armed, we believe that Australia should seek, preferably from her allies, guarantees of protection which include, if necessary, the provision of the bomb as a deterrent for our own country. 
Australia's indignation over nuclear testing has been somewhat belated. I was a member of this House 16 years ago when members of Parliament were invited to go to Maralinga for the purpose of witnessing the first explosion of such a bomb in Australia. When the aeroplanes left I found that they were jammed with not only members of the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party but also members of the Australian Labor Party. The members of the Australian Labor Party did not seem to be interested then in expressing considerable indignation over what was happening. The trade unions, which today pass eloquent motions about imposing bans upon France, did not impose a ban upon the work which was necessary to enable that bomb to be exploded. They provided their skilled workers. Their workers were quite prepared to go there and do the work. They were quite prepared to provide all the necessary expertise. The Labor Party also made no protest when shortly afterwards the Monte Bello Islands, which are on the border of our country, were made available to Great Britain for testing atom bombs. I did not notice at that time any of the frenzied protests which have been made about the French tests. It appears as though the indignation, as  Senator Sim's  motion suggests, has been very belated. I think the French are entitled to say 'Let him that is without sin cast the first stone' in response to our attacks upon them. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Government has, even if belatedly, now taken a stand. I agree that they should have protested against the French explosions. But I also agree with the suggestion implicit in the motion, that is, that they could have and should have shown much greater indignation over the explosions which have been carried out by China in the past and which are going to be carried out by China in the future. 
Many people have expressed indignation over the French bomb but very few of them have attempted to examine the reasons why the French have insisted upon proceeding with their tests. If it is good enough for us to say that we object violently to a course of procedure being followed by certain people, I think it is also good enough for us at least to examine the arguments which those people have put forward in support of their case for following such a course of procedure. The French say they have no particular desire to spend their money upon nuclear explosions and that they have no particular desire to busy themselves with preparing for nuclear defence. But it should be remembered that France is a country that was twice invaded during the course of a half century under the most distressing circumstances. The French are perhaps as much defence conscious as any people in the world. They are also in many ways a people of extreme common sense. They have examined the situation in Europe today and have come to the conclusion that because the Soviet Union has the bomb, Great Britain has the bomb and the United States has the bomb and because they have had no guarantees from any of those countries that they will be protected or defended against nuclear attack, they have to defend themselves from nuclear attack. They have faced up to the situation that an attitude of isolationism is growing in the United States. (Honourable senators interjecting)- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)-  Order! 
It appears as though a debate is going on around me,  Mr Deputy President,  in which I am not involved. 
-I think  Senator Keeffe  is the one who has been contributing most to the discussion. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Order ! 
France has been a battleground on 2 occasions. The French people consider that the United States cannot be relied upon to continue to provide the nuclear umbrella that it provides at present in Europe. In view of the situation in Europe and as no other country in Europe has the military power to stand up to the Soviet Union, the French have decided that their only hope, faced with the possibility of an American withdrawal from Europe, is if they have a nuclear deterrent. Honourable senators may agree or disagree with what the French are doing, but at least they should try to understand why the French have adopted the attitude that on this occasion they are going to try to look after themselves. The French are not proposing to arm themselves from a nuclear point of view to the same degree as the Russians or the Americans because that would be beyond their power. What they are proposing to do is to obtain for themselves a form of deterrent which will offer them some prospect of being taken notice of by the Soviet Union in the event of the Soviet Union attempting to take over Europe. The final point which should be taken into consideration is that the French, like others, are a proud people. They believe that the great nations have made possession of the bomb a symbol of their power in the world today. The French believe that in order to ensure their own independence it is necessary for them to be able to protect themselves to some degree in the nuclear field. 
I do not think enough people have attempted to examine the reasons which the French have put forward for their actions. Some of the reasons have been put forward quite well by Professor Burns of the Australian National University. Professor Burns has said that he is opposed to the French explosions in the Pacific Ocean, but at least he has been fair minded enough to examine the reasons which they have put forward for their actions. He said that the French have gone ahead for the same reason as the British and the Chinese- also the Americans, if it came to the point- that is, because they are afraid of the Soviet Union. Professor Burns said that both 
France and Britain believe that if the Soviet Union threatened them they could not be certain that the United States would place its own cities at risk in order to save its allies. The French, British and Chinese have all done the same thing in a world in which the large nations which have nuclear weapons at their disposal will not promise to protect anybody else who is attacked. They have said that they will develop their own nuclear weapons for their own protection. 
The point that has to be taken into consideration is that although the indignation has been focused upon them the French are not actually proposing to arm themselves with nuclear weapons to anything like the degree that the major powers have nuclear armed. I point out that according to Professor Burns the weapons which the French are preparing are infinitely less potent than those of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. However, their purpose is to inflict unacceptable damage on the Soviet if it attacked France. Professor Burns points out further that the only power that would be immediately disadvantaged by France's development of an efficient thermo-nuclear warhead is the Soviet Union. He says that is why we hear what we do against the French tests from Moscow orientated Communist Union leaders who were silent when in 1961 the Soviet broke the unofficial mon.torium on nuclear tests with a 50 megaton explosion and later on with at least an 80 megaton explosion. So I think that there are reasons for the attitude that the French have adopted that should be looked at. From their point of view, it is self-preservation. Whether we agree with it or not, we have to concede at least that in the present balance of the powers in Europe under which no country could stand up to the Soviet Union the French have an argument which ought to be looked at. 
The next thing I want to point out- Professor Burns mentioned it- is that the French propose to obtain nuclear armaments to an infinitely lower degree than the major powers which already possess them and in regard to which there appears to be no criticism. The French have not yet proceeded very far along the way. Probably, their missiles will be able to be fitted with warheads only by 1976. What they are doing now in the Pacific is working on an atomic fusion trigger. That is to say, their tests are not at the present time at a very advanced stage. People who are fair to them admit that they have tried to a degree to carry out their tests in the least objectionable way. The French tests are being carried out with infinitely stricter precautions than those adopted for the tests of the United States of 
America, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Great Britain. The French have gone much further in setting up precautions against possible dangers than the major powers which, as I have pointed out, are not being criticised. 
As some people suggested, the French gave consideration to conducting their tests underground. But they claimed that they found it was too difficult. They considered other areas such as Kerguelen Island but it was felt that that spot would present much the same problems as the site they are at present using. All we can say about the French is that so far as their bombs or their armaments are concerned, they are proposed to be infinitely less than those of the other major powers. The French say that they are developing nuclear weapons only because the major powers refuse to guarantee protection.  Mrs Ghandi,  the Prime Minister of India, has stated that there is no argument against a nation seeking nuclear arms when major powers will not protect her. Under those circumstances, the French propose to go on. I believe that we in Australia should continue to protest. But we should not adopt an attitude that we will be infinitely stronger in our protest against a middle grade nation than we will be against the major countries. Further, I do not think that we should adopt the attitude that necessarily there is no argument for what they are trying to do. 
I now turn to the People 's Republic of China. This motion is based on a statement that there is selective indignation and that the indignation against France is infinitely greater than any form of indignation suggested by this Government in regard to China. We have been told by  Dr J.  F. Cairns and others who have been to China that  Mr Chou  En-lai, the Foreign Minister of the People's Republic of China, informed them that the Chinese personally supported the attitude of the French in carrying out these tests. Premier Chou En-lai said that he believed that France, like China, had to have nuclear armaments because of the threat from the Soviet Union. He also said that China would continue to conduct these nuclear tests. I would have expected that when Australia was so strong in its protest to France it would have been similarly strong in its protest to China. But that is not so. We were told when we asked why Australia did not take this matter to the International Court of Justice at The Hague that it could not be done. I am somewhat surprised at that because we have always been told that when a country became part of the United Nations Organisation, the act of becoming part of that Organisation meant that that country was automatically a party to the statute constituting the Court. 
I have an authority who claims that this is so. It appears to be a matter of legal argument. When we went to the International Court to determine the legal arguments in regard to France, I think that we ought to have tried to determine the legal arguments in regard to China. Let us get down to brass tacks: The Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  was asked at his weekly Press conference the very question which  Senator Cavanagh  has debated with me during the last few minutes. Here is the question that  Mr Whitlam  was asked: 
Prime Minister, can you elaborate on the statement you made in Parliament this afternoon that there were reasons why Australia could not consider an approach to the International Court on Chinese nuclear testing? 
He was asked why would not Australia approach the International Court. Here is his answer 
Because the winds from the Chinese nuclear testing don't come within thousands of miles of Australia. The winds from the French ones do. 
I merely ask any fair-minded senator: Do you consider that it is an argument against Australia's taking action against China that the winds will blow the nuclear fallout over Asian people and not over Australian people? I would say that when  Mr Whitlam  gave that answer he exploded completely any pretence that he and his Government were actuated by humanitarian motives in opposing atomic testing. Let me read again the answer he gave in regard to why he would not take action against China: 
Because the winds from the Chinese nuclear testing don't come within thousands of miles of Australia. 
He went on to say: 
The winds from the French ones do. 
So the attitude of the Government is that it does not mind or that it is OK if Asians are threatened with nuclear fallout but it is not OK if Australians are so threatened. 
That is the Prime Minister's statement. 
It is in the statement issued by his own Department. 
First of all,  Senator Cavanagh  says that the Prime Minister never made the statement. Then, when I prove that he did make it, he says that I am putting the wrong interpretation on it. I am putting the right interpretation on it but probably not the interpretation that  Senator Cavanagh  sees. This puts the position of his own Government in a light which no honourable person could support. The Prime Minister went on to say: 
The basis of our claim is that the French are committing a nuisance in our environment and we are hoping that the International Court of Justice will take steps to restrain that nuisance; to enjoin the French from committing it- the same way as can happen between neighbours - 
He is not worried about fallout over Asians; he is worried only about fallout over Australians. He was asked: 
That environment applies only to Australia? 
He said: 
No, no. It applies to all the countries of the same latitudes. 
He was asked: 
Doesn't the same argument apply to China, that other countries are being affected by fallout? 
The Prime Minister said: 
No. Not Australia. Australia is not discernibly affected. 
Therefore it is all right for atomic fallout to be scattered over Chinese, North Vietnamese, South Vietnamese, Siberians or Japanese. The objection of this Government is to atomic fallout being scattered over or near Australia. I think that is a truly noble international and humanitarian attitude. 
What has happened in regard to China? If the Government says that it does not think that it can get to the World Court in relation to China at least it could show its disapproval. Can anybody suggest that the relationships between the Peking Government and this Government indicate any form of disapproval at present? The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  went to China at a time when China was exploding atomic bombs which threatened the welfare of people all around it. Remember that in that area the population is in millions, while around Tahiti the population is only in hundreds.  Dr Cairns  went to Peking and signed a treaty which declared that in the eyes of the Australian Government China was the most favoured nation. That nation says that it approves the French bomb tests and that it will carry out bomb tests. That nation carries out tests in areas where there are millions and millions of people. All the indignation that is lavished on France is not lavished on China. Instead we tell the Chinese that their Government is the Government of the most favoured nation. Could hypocrisy go any further? 
The Chinese bomb is a good deal worse than the French bomb. To illustrate the selective and misleading arguments that are being put forward, let me quote what was said by the head of the Research School of Physical Science at the Australian National University,  Sir Ernest  Titterton; He was very critical of some of the statements made in recent weeks about the French bombs. He said: 
Attacks on the French are selective and misleading. 
Speaking at the Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science Congress he said: 
If you want to show indignation against nuclear tests, then it should be a great deal higher against the Chinese than the French, because the Chinese tests intercept about 7 times the population than the French tests. 
The French site in Polynesia is one of the best in the world from a humanitarian point of view, if one can use that term. 
We are attacking the French with intense indignation. What are we doing to the Chinese? We are telling them that they are the most favoured nation. I think the proper attitude for the Labor Government to adopt would be to say that it will break off its present relations, particularly from a trade point of view, with China until China promises to cease atomic testing. 
I believe that there has been a good deal of undercover negotiation in regard to the French situation in recent weeks. I notice that, although the French intend to continue tests,  Mr Whitiam  asked the Australian Council of Trade Unions to lift the trade union ban on French communications. I was interested to see that shortly afterwards that was done. I have no doubt that the reason why  Mr Whitlam  asked the ACTU to cease its action against the French was that a number of unions had placed on the agenda of the ACTU congress motions seeking similar condemnatory action to be taken in regard to China, because of its tests, as had been taken against France. It was a decision of the unions recently, following a request from  Mr Whitlam  to the ACTU, to lift the ban. I repeat that the reason why it was lifted was that certain unions had put an item on the agenda for the ACTU conference asking that China be similarly condemned. Our Government, which at present is making trade treaties with China, which calls China the most favoured nation and which will set up a high priority visit by our Prime Minister and other Ministers to China, felt it was very embarrassing that certain trade unions said that they ought to be honest enough to do to China what they were doing to France. I have no doubt that they were asked to help the Government out of a hole by lifting the bans on the French temporarily. In short, it was another instance of double standards and another instance of the blantant hypocrisy of the Government which would condemn a country which is not communist and treat with kid gloves a country which is communist. 
We are getting all kinds of foreign policy decisions from this Government. It is taking action in regard to all kinds of countries at present. I hesitate to say that it is interfering. For example, we are told that Rhodesia is beyond the pale because human rights are not observed there. Recently there was the anniversary of the takeover of Czechoslovakia by the Red Army. A communist government which tried to be a bit liberal was wiped out and replaced by the most illiberal government in the world today. In Czechoslovakia today there is less liberty than there is in any other civilised country. Does our Government, which is so anxious to condemn South Africa and Rhodesia, condemn the Czechoslovak Government? Not at all. Representatives of the Czechoslovak Government, a government held in power by the bayonets of the Red Army, were here. The Czechoslovak Government is so illiberal that recently it built a high wooden fence around the grave of a youth who sacrificed his life in the course of liberty 3 years ago, and the graves of others, so that the people of Czechoslovakia could not lay wreaths on those graves, and it told the people that they were prohibited from going there. The Government in Czechoslovakia is the worst government in the civilised world. There is less liberty there than there is anywhere else. What happens? It has its ambassadors and its consuls here. Members of the Government attend their functions, welcome their football teams and all the rest of it. It is different. How can this Government deny that it is actuated by selective indignation? 
Do not try to drag red herrings across the trail. Our foreign policy today is a shambles because it is conducted on the basis that Australia will be violently indignant to the governments of countries which are not communist and our protests will be of the mildest form if communist countries interfere with human rights. I do not think that Communist China ought to be a most favoured nation. 
I wonder if you think it. Do you think it should be? 
-I think  Senator McAuliffe  does better at rugby league than he does at debating this kind of question. The Government is asking for trouble while it interferes in what are the internal affairs of country after country throughout the world on the ground that it must protest against attacks upon human rights. Of course a government has the right to say what it thinks about deprivation of human rights in other countries but it does not have any right to adopt an attitude of approval. It does not have any right to call a country a most favoured nation which does the very things for which it is condemning other countries. 
I would say to this Government that it would probably help itself in the eyes of the people of Australia if occasionally it made some strong protests against deprivation of human rights in communist countries. It is becoming painfully obvious that the protests are directed against countries which are not communist. From the point of view of ordinary electoral support it is about time that this Government got up and made some protests. I do not mean the statement in which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said: Yes, it is very naughty of them, is it not? It is very unpleasant'- that sort of thing. I would like to see Australia being just as tough in regard to China as it is in regard to France or Rhodesia or South Africa, and just as tough in regard to what is happening in Czechoslovakia. If it did, it would avoid motions such as this, alleging that it is activated by selective indignation. I say again that the Government has not a leg to stand on. Its indignation is selective. It is prepared to do anything against the French, up to a point. It has removed the ban simply because it looks a bit awkward when the Australian unions are wanting China to be attacked. So under the present circumstances I conclude by saying that the charge of selective indignation has been proved. I look forward to the day when the Government will attack deprivation of human rights in a communist country. 
-The policy of the Australian Democratic Labor Party on the question of prices is clear. We believe that the Government of Australia, in the same way as the governments of Great Britain, the United States of America and New Zealand, ought to have power to control prices. But we go further on the grounds of plain and ordinary common sense. We say that the power to control prices is useless unless it is accompanied by power to regulate wages and incomes. I do not know of any country which has successfully coped with the question of rising prices unless it was able also to cope with one of the most vital elements in rising costs, namely, wages and incomes. Therefore, when we of the Australian Democratic Labor Party learnt that the Government proposed to call for a referendum upon prices, we favoured the proposal. But when the Bill was introduced and we found that it was to be confined to prices, we felt that it was necessary- I repeat, in the name of common sense- that the action should not be confined merely to prices but that it should be extended also to wages and incomes. For that reason, my Party introduced in the Senate today a Bill in which we state our view that the question to be put to the people should be whether they feel that the Commonwealth Government should have power to control both prices and wages. That is where we stand. 
Incomes and wages, if you like. At the moment in this country we have galloping inflation. There is galloping inflation on many fronts. I am not terribly interested in the long history of misdemeanours of other governments. I am interested in what this Government has done and what it proposes to do because it is in the saddle at the moment. Under this Government we have galloping inflation upon many fronts and upon 2 fronts in particular. The worst kind of inflation is occurring on foodstuffs, on the requirements of the housewife, on housing and on land. Those things are essential for young couples if we are to promote what we should promote in this country, that is, a good family life. Not only have we had increases in prices which have shocked even the most hardened among us, but in addition we have been told bluntly that prices will continue to go up infinitely more in the next 12 months. We are told that the price of land is rising at the rate of $200 a week for a good block of land in Melbourne. We are told that prices, despite the tremendous increases, are going to increase all the more. Wages are lagging. People on fixed incomes, pensions and superannuation are being reduced to the poverty line in the light of what is happening. 
It appears to me that they are lagging, definitely. Therefore, it appears to me that it is necessary for this Government to take some vital action. Government members say that they have established the Prices Justification Tribunal and that it will make a very fine report. But all honourable senators on the Government side know that without constitutional power the Prices Justification Tribunal, although very nice, is really worth very little. Unless the Government of this country has the power, the Prices Justification Tribunal is just a mirage. Therefore, I believe that we have to face up to the question of what is going to be done on prices. I want to warn that perhaps too much of the focus has been placed upon the question of prices. It is one vital point in the present inflationary malaise. But even if the Government gets the power, not only over prices but also over incomes and wages, it faces no easy task in implementing a satisfactory method of dealing with inflation. All sorts of other factors have to be brought into the campaign. 
My Party made that clear in a motion which it passed at its Federal conference last year calling for a number of actions to be taken for the purpose of dealing with inflation. We called for a check in unreserved Government spending. We called for greater reserve bank control under Government supervision over credit expansion of banks and other institutions. As will be known, institutions of a banking type function at the present time under no law, or practically no law. We called for a reduction in private spending, firstly by encouraging savings and, secondly, by reforming the tax system to ensure that the low income earners do not carry the entire burden. We called for the checking of excessive inflow of foreign funds for the purchase of assets. 
Also we called for action to regulate prices. But it was clearly understood in the discussion on the motion that when we called for action to regulate prices we were calling also for the obvious complement to any action in that direction- action to regulate incomes and wages. We believe it is essential that nobody should attempt to tell the people of this country that all that has to be done is to introduce price control and everything will be fixed. That would only be deceiving the people. I repeat that I believe the Government's best means of trying to do something effective about inflation is to pass legislation or to hold a referendum which will enable it to control both the prices sector and the wages and incomes sector. Unfortunately, there are strong divisions of opinion in the Senate at the present time. There are before the Senate 3 different propositionsfrom, in effect, 3 different quarters. No party has a majority for its proposition. The Government says that a referendum should be only to give it control of prices. The Country Party and the Liberal Party say that there should be no referendum, no control of prices and no control of incomes. We in the DLP say that the question to be put to the people should ask them to give the Commonwealth a package power to control prices, wages and incomes. At present time nobody is able to get over the fact that the Senate is divided and no party has a majority for its proposition. 
I believe that action in regard to prices is essential if inflation is to be dealt with. The motto that could be put at the head of any argument on this question is the statement of  Mr Chifley  who said years ago: 'It does not matter how many pounds are in your wage packet; what matters is what you can buy with those pounds'. I believe that that is the position. If the Commonwealth Government is given power to control wages and power to control prices, and the complementary power to which I have referred, it will be put in the situation of trying to ensure that we will not have this vicious circle of continual inflation and of attempts- often unavailing- by sections of the trade union movement to catch up, and we will not have the position that  we  have today, in which people on fixed incomes, superannuation and so on, are reduced to the poverty line. 
The Democratic Labor Party wants the Government to trust the people to make a decision. If the Government believes that only the prices proposition should be put, let it put that on the referendum ballot paper. But, in view of the fact that a considerable number of the country's leading economists and most of the critics who have written on this subject in the newspapers affirm that it is equally necessary to have power over incomes, let the Government adopt the DLP suggestion and include this second question. 'Are you in favour of the Commonwealth having power over both prices and incomes?', and let the people decide between those 2 alternatives. 
I want to say something to honourable senators sitting on the Government side. They are a band of brothers sworn to honourably maintain the secrecy of the Caucus. Their Party admits people to its Caucus on the honourable understanding that none of them will reveal what has happened. But everybody knows that 5 minutes after the Caucus breaks up every top journalist in this building has his leak who informs on his mates. 
They do not have to be drinking in order to inform on their mates to the Press- often to the anti-Labor Press. In their Caucus today a proposal was put forward- it was not exactly the DLP proposition- for 2 things to be included in the one question. I understand the proposition was that the Government might put incomes and prices in 2 separate questions. That proposition was defeated by only 45 votes to 42, I am told, and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was in favour of the proposition to let the people have a vote on the question of incomes. 1 hope that members of the Labor Party will have another look at that proposition. It will be a pretty poor situation for them to have to go to the people and say, through their leader, that they believe that the Commonwealth should have power over prices, when their leader can be asked whether it is a fact that he believed that the Commonwealth also should have power over incomes. What could he say? Could he say: 'Yes, I did believe that'? The numbers in the Caucus were 45 to 42, and that is too close for the Labor Party to be able to say that it will forget the proposition. I say to the Labor Party senators that if they go to the people on the question of prices only they will be defeated, and defeated overwhelmingly. On the other hand, if they go to the people with one question covering both prices and incomes they will have a good chance of success. We in the Democratic Labor Party will persist with our Bill. We believe that it is the right thing to do. Even if the Government insists on putting its own proposition, we appeal to it to put the other proposition as an alternative. What is wrong with letting the people decide? 
I want to say one or two other things. A good deal of scorn has been poured upon suggestions that an approach might still be made to the States. I realise that the States have not been very co-operative on this issue, but I think we do well to remember that the States are the ones who have the power to control prices today in this country. We do well to remember that the States have failed completely to co-operate as they should for the purpose of assisting to control inflation by action in regard to prices. I may be wrong, but I thought I detected this morning in some statements on behalf of the States, a certain realisation that they may not be justified in opposing this proposition as strongly as they have. As this referendum could only be held in some months time, there is nothing wrong with still trying to get co-operation from them. 
However, there is another section of the community which has to be called upon to play its part also. I refer to the trade unions. Let me be blunt. Obviously, one reason why  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Crean  have not been happy about this proposal- it is well know that  Mr Whitlam  did not want the referendum- is that they realise the immense difficulties they face from sections of the trade union movement, such as the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union under  Mr Carmichael  and  Mr Halfpenny  who now have established a system by which they go to a cosy love nest with the employers and work out increases. The understanding is that they can get their increases while the employers can recoup the cost by charging higher prices and manipulating the tariff. That union is committed to that couse of action without regard to the effect upon other unions or upon the economy when demands are made for a flow-on. 
I would have a good deal of pity and sympathy for  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Crean  if they were called upon to try to implement a prices policy in the face of the sort of co-operation they would get from the Carmichaels and the Halfpennys. Therefore, it is necessary that we call upon the trade union movement of Australia, not through one individual but through its interstate executive, or by means of a special conference if necessary, to delcare where it stands upon this question. I have been told that at the recent congress of the Australian Council of Trade Unions it was determined that there should be no control over wages. 
-No further control? So far as the individuals I have mentioned are concerned, when they say none they mean none. The policy of  Mr Carmichael  and  Mr Halfpenny  is no control at all. They believe in straightout negotiation with the bosses on the basis that they share the cake between them and the interests of the rest of the community are not to be regarded. The Labor Party claims to be the Party of the unions. Why does it not go to the unions and ask them where they stand? No system of price control can operate if the unions propose to institute, where they have power, a system of industrial anarchy. 
I will never be Prime Minister of this country but if I were, in a case such as this I would have one more go at the States and I would go to the trade unions and say: 'You cannot expect us as a government to go on with this kind of thing unless you are prepared to be good Australians and do your bit. ' I conclude by saying that the Democratic Labor Party is not afraid to give power over incomes and prices to the Commonwealth Government. We do not believe that such action will reduce Australia to socialism. After all, one of the things I have noted about the Labor Party in recent years is that it is always socialist except before an election. As I have said, when governments in Great Britain, New Zealand and the United States of America have these powers, we see no reason why they should not be given to the Commonwealth Government. We appeal to honourable senators to have regard to the fact that if we are to implement a system of price control as one factor- I emphasise that; not as the single nostrum to cure inflation- in a series of measures which ought to be taken then I believe that it is essential that the proposition put to the people should give them the right to choose whether they want to confine that power only to prices or whether they are given an alternative choice which I suggest should be incomes. 
-I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is a Press statement correct that an Aboriginal child of about 7 years of age was transported with the assistance of the Commonwealth from her foster parents back to her parents in order that the child might be married to one of the older men of her tribe? Whether the report is true or not, what is the Australian Government's policy regarding the compulsory marriage of under-age Aboriginal females to older men of the tribe? Does the Commonwealth support this practice on the ground that to do otherwise would interfere with Aboriginal culture? 
-The Democratic Labor Party sees no reason why we should be called upon to give up the arrangement made and which has operated in the past. On other occasions the Labor Party was the first to protest against interference with General Business. We feel that there is an unpleasant atmosphere of high pressure about the Constitution Alteration (Prices) Bill. Last Monday it was regarded as an important constitutional matter by the Government and it was forced through the House of Representatives in a couple of hours. I understand that the Speaker's fingers are so worn down by pressing the button for the bells that it is questionable whether he will be able to play snooker for a couple of weeks. When thai Bill was brought into this chamber a motion was moved almost immediately for the suspension of the Standing Orders in regard to the procedure under which it was to be considered. I heard whispers yesterday that the Government was considering going on with some other measures but that it then decided that it was so important to bring this Bill on today. Now we are asked to give up our right to deal with General Business this evening. Everybody here knows that no vote will be taken on that Bill until next week. Nobody is under any illusion that the vote will not be taken until next week. Under those circumstances, and knowing that there is going to be a good deal of debate, I see no reason for interfering with the processes of the House. 
I have heard rumours. I have heard some people mention rumours to the effect that the anxiety to get this Bill through is not for the purpose of going to the people but rather to enable some people to get a trip abroad. 
Government senators- Oh! 
I notice that not everybody on the Government side denies that that is the case. 
-I am pleased to see that honourable senators on the Government side believe in playing a straight bat and that they never resort to tactics. Getting back to the point, everybody knows that no vote will be taken until the middle of next week. Under those circumstances there is no reason to interfere with the forms of the House. 
I desire to indicate that the Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. The Government is to be congratulated on the improvements which the Bill contains. The increased allowances will be welcomed in a community in which many pensioners no doubt will suffer as a result of the increased cost of living. Having said that we will support the Bill I do not propose to speak at length. I think we should get this legislation through quickly so that the benefits will be available. But I want to mention at the request of a very deserving ex-serviceman who has written to me the question of the special compensation allowance. Even at this late stage when it is obvious that all parties will support the Bill, he and I would hope the Government might look at this. He makes the point in his letter to me that there was no mandate, as far as he can see, for this, that it was not mentioned during the election campaign and that while there might be an argument for action in certain limited cases there are other cases under the special compensation allowance for which he believes it could have been continued. He says that no repatriation pensioner applies for it, that it is granted only if a very strict medical panel so decides, and that in view of the comparatively small amount that would be involved he would like the Government to allow them to retain their $6 a week. I realise that there are many cases which the Government had to take into consideration, but I suppose that incapacitated ex-servicemen perhaps feel these things more strongly than would other people. So I refer the matter to the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop).  I know that the Minister has a great deal of compassion and I am sure he will look at it. Nevertheless I would like him just to let us know what exactly was the reason for the action taken. 
I present the following petition from 33 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
Tothe Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
1 ) Your petitioners believe in the principle that every Australian child, irrespective of the school he attends, is entitled to economic support for his basic educational needs from the funds placed at the disposal of the Australian government through taxation. Further, they believe that this economic support should be in the form of per capita grants which are directly related to the cost of educating an Australian child in a government school. 
Your petitioners believe that in addition to this basic per capita grants additional assistance should be provided in cases of educational disadvantage, but they believe that the appropriate instruments for reducing economic inequalities are taxation and social welfare systems which deal with individuals and families and not with schools. 
The reduction of the existing per capita grants will impose great hardships on many parents who have chosen, at considerable personal sacrifice to send their sons and daughters to independent schools. Indeed the curtailment of the said grants will create divisions in the community. 
Some independent schools of high educational standards will be forced to close with the consequences that children attending those schools will have to attend government schools already over taxed and under staffed, 
Some independent schools have been encouraged to lower standards in order that their parents may continue to receive per capita grants. 
Parents should be encouraged to exercise freedom of choice of the type of schools they wish for their children. The proposed legislation will penalise parents who try to exercise this choice, and discourage them from making a vital financial contribution  to  Australian education over and above what they contribute through taxation. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should acknowledge the right of every Australian child  to  equal per capita grants of government money spent on education. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-The Democratic Labor Party took the action that it did about this matter for one reason: We believed that a government which wants to ask the people 's opinion on a measure which it believes vital to the fight against inflation should be at least permitted to ask the people's opinion. As to the use made of the powers, that depends on Parliament. There should be no exaggeration to the effect that if this referendum is held power is given to the Cabinet or to the Government to do anything it likes. Whatever procedure the Government takes, whatever machinery it institutes, comes under the scrutiny of Parliament. It has to be approved or disapproved by Parliament. All we are saying is that the people should be asked: Do they want this to be done? And there is nothing revolutionary in asking the people what they want done. 
In accordance with Standing Order 64I move: 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn until tomorrow (Thursday) at 9.59 a.m. 
I do so for the purpose of debating a matter of urgency, namely: 
The reduction of Australia's defences to a degree which destroys the morale of our armed forces, leaves Australia without credibility as an ally and gravely endangers our security. 
I believe that it is appropriate for such a motion to be moved by the Democratic Labor Party in a period of crisis because the DLP, from its inception, has always been a defence minded party. In the early 1950s we were impressed by the change which occurred in Australia's security as a result of the Second World War. Prior to that war, between Australia and Asia and the rest of the world we had the British in India and in Malaya, the Dutch in Indonesia, the French in IndoChina and the Americans in the Philippines. We also had the security and the protection of the forces of Britain, particularly the British fleet. After World War II all that cordon between Australia and the rest of the world was swept away, and we were on the threshold of Asia. A year or two after that war an event happened as a result of which nothing could ever again be the same for the security of our country- communism took over China. 
In the period from 1955 to 1961, when the DLP was first operating, we always made it a principle of our election speeches to insist that the item of most importance to Australia was Australia's defences and security. We formed that conclusion, and we made it the first item of our election policy because of the kind of world in which we were living. No other Party agreed with us. In the case of the 2 major parties, defence was relegated to the least important sections of the policy speeches. In my first term as a senator, from 1955 to 1961, there was hardly a change in the defence vote which, each year, was pegged at one hundred million pounds, although each year the value of money was decreasing. Therefore, the amount actually being spent on defence, while appearing to be the same, was steadily decreasing. During the 1961 election campaign about the only thing on which the Liberal Party and the Australian Labor Party agreed - they disagreed on practically everything- was that the defence vote could continue to be pegged and that there was no necessity for Australia to improve its defences. 
However, after 1961 there was a different situation. The situation in Vietnam became more serious. The situation in the Asian area generally became more serious. We had the events which eventually led to the confrontation in Borneo. Indonesia had one of the largest communist parties in the world. That party, only by a hair's breadth, failed to take over that country. We were the luckiest people in the world that the attempted communist coup was foiled and that 
Indonesia came under the present regime. It is a regime which has been inducing stability steadily and a regime with which we are able to cooperate. 
But because of the seriousness of what appeared to be the situation both the major political parties in Australia in the early 1960s became defence minded. Defence received more and more mention in the policies of the Australian Labor Party and the then Government parties. But as a result of later events in the later 1960s there was a turn of public opinion. The Vietnam war was not being won, mainly because there were 2 wars in Vietnam. There was the military war which was three-quarters fought and the propaganda war which was not fought at all. The result was that public opinion veered around in a direction antagonistic towards defence. Defence was smeared. In the late 1 960s and in the first year or so of this decade the word soldier' was almost made a dirty word. The anti-defence spirit spread throughout certain members of the community who, as I said before, were influenced by propaganda which the Government of the day did not resist sufficiently. 
We then came to the period when it was asserted under  Mr Gorton  that Australia was safe and that there was no possibility of anything happening to Australia for at least 10 years. That proposition is now being echoed by the present Government, with the exception that instead of saying that we have nothing to worry about defence-wise for 10 years, the present Government is extending the period and says that we have nothing to worry about defence-wise for about 15 years. Of course, that argument is supported by opinion which could be regarded as expert in certain fields and is attacked from certain directions by opinion which could be regarded at least as equally expert. The present Government has made great play of a statement by  Sir Victor  Smith of the Royal Australian Navy and of the General Staff to the effect that in the foreseeable future he can see no prospect of any attack upon Australia. 
The Government has justified its decisions to reduce Australia's defences to an alarming degree by saying that it relies upon such statements. But I point out that that statement is counteracted by a statement which has been widely circulated made by the Chief of the General Staff, Major-General  Sir Mervyn  Brogan which I propose to quote. He was asked whether he subscribed to the no threat theory that one hears in various places. He said: 
I would have to say there is no foreseeable threat at the moment But this is not to say that a threat will not manifest itself almost overnight. We have been lulled into these senses of false security before. 
We have only got to look back to the Chamberlain era to see the point brought out. The fact that there is no imminent threat to this country as of now is not to say that we should not be prepared for one that will loom tomorrow. 
He was then asked: 
Many people say it would not be possible for this country to be invaded. Do you subscribe to that view? 
He replied: 
I think the very vastness of Australia leaves it open to invasion at many points. We have a coastline of some 12,000 linear miles. We have an area of 3 million square miles. This is a lot of geography to be defended by a population of 1 3 million people of which only 31,000 Regular Army men are to be under arms at any one time and I would not discount the theory that this country could be invaded with comparative ease. 
I want to refer also to another statement which I heard made at a briefing given to members of this Parliament, within our own precincts, by Admiral  Sir Richard  Peek who had attended a conference of naval officers in Washington. At that time there was much questioning over the Russian presence in the Indian Ocean. There were those who said that it was nothing to be afraid of; there were others who said that it had serious implications. At that time all the Press of Australia quoted a question and answer from that briefing. Admiral Peek was asked  whether  the Russian presence in the Indian Ocean was serious at present and he answered 'no'. Then he was asked this question: 
Could it be serious within 1 2 months? 
He replied: 
Certainly, yes. 
The whole of the Australian Press printed his first statement that there was no imminent threat in the Indian Ocean but I have not seen one newspaper which printed his further statement that that position could be completely altered within 12 months. Those of us who look back through history will recall that prior to Hitler's war and the war in which we were involved with Japan,  Mr Baldwin,  the Prime Minister of Great Britain, held an election and at that time he hardly mentioned defence. He allowed the defences of Great Britain to be down-graded. When he was asked why he did not stand up for an adequately armed Britain he said it was because at the time there were no votes in it. Many of us can remember that in the period from 1935 to 1940 there were powerful disarmament organisations operating in this country and in the Labor Party. Many of us can remember the statement by  Mr John  Curtin not long before Hitler's war when he said that war was not imminent and the Government should consider reducing Australia's forces. Whenever I think of those times I also think of a father who used to visit my office in 1948, 1949 and 1950.  His  son had joined the forces and had been sent with a number of troops to Amboina.  His  son died there. Those troops went there without arms and without training. They were sent there in a last desperate effort. They had nothing with which to resist the Japs and the son of this man died there. This father kept coming to me wanting to know why something could not be done politically to get an inquiry to sheet home the responsibility of the people who had caused a situation whereby young Australians who were not trained were sent into action without weapons and without experience. But of course that man did not get what he was after. Neither, I suppose, will people get such an inquiry if as a result of what is happening today Australia is caught unarmed and unprepared and young Australians are sent into action without a chance of being effectively able to resist their enemies. 
There are 3 points in the motion which I have moved. The first is the question of morale. I concede that the Government deserves some credit on a front which could be associated with morale because the Government has taken action, for which it has to be commended, to improve the conditions under which members of our armed forces operate. Having said that, I can only say that all the efforts that have been made to make service in the armed forces something of a career and all the efforts that have been made to improve morale in that direction must fall to the ground when young men who hope to make the armed forces a career find that the armed forces today are being downgraded and that they will be left without adequate training and without adequate weapons with which to fight. 
One will be told in any part of Australia today that we have tanks, but the greater part of the time of our tank corps is spent in trying to repair, to maintain and to keep in operation tanks which have been obsolete for many years and which would be entirely useless in battle. Yet we are told by the experts that Australia is a country that is particularly suited to tank warfare. There was to have been a destroyer program. It is now in the doldrums. The proposal for Cockburn Sound is in the doldrums. Officers in the Royal Australian Air Force cynically talk of having to operate in balloons before long. As the last straw, we have been told that the Government proposes to save money by getting rid of at least four or five Army bands. I believe that the ordinary Army band is a considerable factor in relation to morale. When one finds that four or five of these bands, which are comprised of trained musicians who are able to make a considerable contribution to morale generally, are to be disbanded, one can only wonder where the Government will move next in this frantic search for economies at the expense of our defence forces. 
What is happening, of course, is that the retirement benefits which the Government improved and made available in the belief that they would encourage people to stay in the armed forces are now being used by disappointed officers and non-commissioned officers who feel that the Army has been so downgraded that it offers nothing at all to a man who wants to make the best of his profession. These men of priceless experience who could not possibly be replaced will now take these improved benefits and get out of our armed forces in complete disappointment and disillusionment. The worst feature of this is that it takes many years to build up skilled cadres and skilled groups in various areas of our armed forces. If we get rid of those skilled organisations it will be years before we are able to re-form them, and there is no prospect of re-forming them in a hurry if we are faced with a crisis in which our defences are called upon. In the light of these circumstances, what are we doing? The Government is taking the action of getting rid of a large number of men whose services are vital if we are to have any sort of armed forces and will be more than vital if war comes and our armed forces have to be expanded. 
The second point I make in my matter of urgency is that because of what is happening in relation to our armed forces we will lose credibility as an ally. We have always claimed that while we will make a contribution to our own defence we will rely upon allies, but that to ensure that they will assist us and join with us we will be prepared to make a contribution in the event of mutual trouble. I refer to two particular alliances. One is the South East Asia Treaty Organisation alliance. I was very surprised to note that when he was in Washington recently  Mr Whitlam  said that Australia still had a lot of time for SEATO. However, the suggestion is that it will become largely a cultural body and will cease the manoeuvres which it organised for quite a number of years. But what is the situation in the case of the ANZUS treaty? According to the records of our own Department of Foreign Affairs, while those concerned with ANZUS do not guarantee completely that they will support one another, ANZUS is based upon the likelihood that the countries concerned will assist one another. But one finds that the doctrine on which this will be based, as stated by  President  Nixon, says: 
The US will provide a shield if a nuclear power threatens the freedom of a nation allied with the US or a nation vital to US security. 
But it goes on: 
In cases involving other types of aggression the US will furnish military and economic assistance when requested in accordance with its Treaty commitments. 
But here is the rub for Australia: 
But it will look to the nation directly threatened to assume the primary responsibility for providing the manpower for its own defence. 
That doctrine indicates, we are told by our own experts, that limited military response by the US or other external powers to communist insurgency is unlikely to be affected unless accompanied by the fullest self-help by the government concerned. We say that we must rely on allies. We are a small country of 1 2 million people. But our principal ally says, and the others by implication say, that we must provide self-help, we must try to be self-reliant. Are we self-reliant? Everybody knows that we could not possibly be self-reliant. Everybody knows that we could not be regarded as in any sense a credible ally under the arms and military establishment which this Government proposes. Let me point out the case of the Army to illustrate this. The Army has about 3 1 ,000 men, perhaps a couple of thousand more; but the experts tell us that of those 3 1 ,000 or 32,000 men, most of them- the overwhelming majority- will be engaged in supply work, communications and all kinds of other work, while those available to bear arms will number about 5,000 or 6,000. Five thousand or 6,000. Let us consider the situation. 

 Mr Whitlam told  President  Nixon in the United States that. he should not believe the stories that were being put around that the present Government was adopting an isolationist policy, that it intended to retreat to Australia.  Mr Whitlam  assured  President  Nixon that Australia would carry out her treaty obligations if called upon to do so. But how could Australia be anything but isolationist with only 5,000 men in the Army able to bear arms? Those 5,000 men will make it completely impossible for us to make a contribution if one of our ANZUS allies is attacked. Our Government should admit straight out that it is now completely isolationist and that it has no intention under any circumstances of having forces which our allies could regard as credible from the point of view of playing our part in the event of trouble in the world today. 
The third point I made was that our general security is being menaced. I believe that even though it costs money, expenditure on reasonable defence is insurance. It is all very well to say: I do not think my house will be burnt down'yet we insure the house and make sure that everything is right. In the same way to those who say: 'I cannot see that anybody is going to invade Australia ' I simply say that at one of the inquiries that I attended, 3 experts in world history were present, and I said to them: 'Would you say that history shows that nations can make decisions that they have nothing to fear for at least 10 to 15 years?'. They unanimously told me that the lesson of history was that nations which adopted that attitude had almost uniformly paid the penalty. We live in a world of violence. People talk about a detente. The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and China face one another across their common border where the Russians have 45 divisions and the Chinese have almost as many. The islands to the north of us have powerful subversive forces within their communities based on guerrilla movements which are sponsored by communist nations. When one speaks to diplomats from South East Asia one is told that it is not a question of invasion at the moment; the question today is subversion. 
There is still a powerful underground communist organisation in Indonesia. There are subversive forces in Thailand, Vietnam and Malaysia. A diplomat from one of those countries told me that other day that his country has not yet recognised communist China. He said that his country sent one of its top diplomats to see Chou En-lai and told him that the position between their 2 countries would be much easier if China did not interfere in the internal affairs of this small South East Asian country. Chou En-lai said: 'Look, we will promise not to interfere'. The diplomat was delighted. He said: 'Does that mean that you will no longer support the national liberation front in my country?' Chou En-lai answered this question by saying: 'Well, support for a national liberation front is not interference'. 
I would say that with the serious position to the north of Australia the increasing power of China and the Soviet Union and the big increases in the size of their navies, anybody who simply says that we can forget the rest of the world for 10 to 15 years will have a very serious awakening. I believe that the people of Australia are not as anti-defence as many people are making out. I believe that the people of Australia, although our Government at the time did not sufficiently tell them what was going on, were gravely disturbed by the implications of what was happening in Vietnam. I believe that as they look at the world today they are becoming gravely concerned about our defences. I believe that they are gravely concerned at the run-down which is taking place in our defences. I believe that all the Parties on this side of the chamber paid the penalty at the last election when they allowed themselves to be conned into the idea that defence would not be a good issue. All of the Parties on this side paid the penalty electorally for allowing their opponents and a big section of the media effectively to con them into the idea that defence was not an issue. I believe that it will be an issue at the next election. I believe that the people of Australia will indicate that they want this country to be secure and that they want our young people to be at least trained to defend themselves if an emergency or a crisis arises. It is all very well to say that we have 10 to 15 yearsthat is a gamble. Even the experts who have told us that we have 10 to 15 years have had to say when we have pinned them down: 'Well, we cannot say that for certain but we think it'. As I said, this is a gamble. We in the DLP ask the Government to reconsider what it is doing on defence because it ought not to gamble with the security of our country. 
It has been indicated already that the Australian Democratic Labor Party will vote against any proposal in this legislation to increase postal charges.  Senator Kane  has explained fully our objection to a number of the proposed charges. I am opposed particularly to the increase in landline rents, particularly as they apply to country broadcasting and things of that nature. I think our point of view is sufficiently clear. 
The reason I rose is that before the suspension of the sitting for lunch I heard  Senator Cotton  say that there was a good deal of confusion about this legislation. He said that the confusion was so great that he was inclined to seek leave to defer completing his remarks while the confusion was resolved. We were informed that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  would meet  Senator Cotton  during the luncheon suspension and that they would endeavour to resolve the confusion.  Senator McAuliffe  was able to announce in the course of his speech that the confusion had been resolved and that- I hesitate to use the word 'deal' even without an adjective - 
The honourable senator said 'an agreement'. That is a much nicer term than the one I heard used in these precincts only yesterday. But, if something has been arrived at which has eliminated what was serious confusion in regard to this legislation, surely people such as myself who are so rarely involved in deals- I repeat 'without an adjective'- should be told exactly what the situation is before we are called on to vote on the motion for the second reading of these Bills. 
I merely rise, as I did not speak generally on the Bills, to say that, in respect of all the arguments which I would have put forward, I can save time now by indicating that what was said in the speeches made by  Senator Murphy  and his colleagues a couple of years ago in opposing increases in postal charges is exactly the sentiments which the Democratic Labor Party is backing on this occasion. 
I feel that I should support the wish that has been expressed that the Government will give fresh consideration to this matter. I will not labour the point. I make that statement on behalf of my Party. We were not asked by the Liberal Party, the Australian Country Party or by any other Party to be associated with what appears to have been a deal made behind the scenes. I do not propose to use any adjective in regard to that deal other than to say that we appreciate the point that in these matters we are not consulted by the 2 other Opposition Parties. They have their rights not to consult us on these things. In these circumstances we will express our own views in regard to these deals. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill as amended agreed to. 
I rise very briefly to indicate my complete disagreement with any suggestions such as those mooted by  Senator Keeffe  that a matter such as this can be dealt with by the Prime Minister  Mr Whitlam)  asking the Special Minister of State  (Senator Willesee)  to hold an inquiry. These al- . legations are most serious. They arc allegations against administrative heads, a member of the Austral^. . National University and  Dr Coombs  and we are informed that  Mr Bryant,  a Minister of the Crown, was removed from his position by the Prime Minister because the Prime Minister acted either from lack of knowledge or because he had been misinformed. Therefore the allegations to a degree concern the Prime Minister mself What Parliament could accept a situation where the Prime Minister, having been involved in matters such as this, should name his own judicial tribunal? 
I believe that these allegations are so .cr mis that the Parliament and the Australian community will be satisfied with nothing less than the royal commission which has been advocated by  Senator Laucke.  The matter has been very trenchantly dealt with. Individuals have been named and declared guilty here tonight before the inquiry has been held. Because of all the circumstances I indicate that the Democratic Labor Party will support the request which has been made for a royal commission, and nothing less. 
by leave- I think it would be wrong if I did not make it known to the Senate that at our meeting this morning the Australian Democratic Labor 
Party unanimously placed on record its appreciation of  Senator Gair's  8 years of sterling service as Leader of our Party. We also recorded our congratulations on the fact that he has spent 41 years in the parliamentary service of the people of this country. It is our earnest wish that he will continue giving for years to come the service he has given over the past years. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It is prompted by the fact that as a result of illness the ranks of the Ministry in this chamber have been seriously depleted, so much so that it was necessary for the Leader of the Government to make a plea for the indulgence of the House around about the present time. My question is this: In view of the increasing strain being put upon honourable senators by the longer working hours, by the extension of the period during which Parliament meets, by the excessive load being placed upon those members who participate in the committee system, as well as a number of other factors, will the Leader of the Government at an early date- within the next week or two- conduct discussions with the parties in this chamber with a view to ascertaining ways and means by which the work of the Senate may be carried on, but if possible, with the intense strain under which members are at present operating being minimised? I point to the fact that not only are ordinary members of the Senate indisposed at the moment but also 2 Ministers are indisposed, and we are informed that their illness is due to overwork and exhaustion. 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade refers to an extraordinary statement attributed to the Minister for Overseas Trade,  Dr Cairns,  to the effect that the duration of wheat sales contracts to Communist China will depend upon whether there is a change of government in this country. I ask the Minister: Are we to take it that the present Australian Government accepts the position that trade negotiations with Communist China will depend on whether the government in power here is one of which Mao Tse-tung and Chou En-lai approve? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and refers to the proposed referendum We have been told that the Federal Executive of the Australian Labor Party has approved of the 2 questions to be put at the referendum. We have been told also that the Australian Labor Party Caucus has approved of them. I would like to ask the Leader of the Government what is his authority for the statement that a member of the Australian Labor Party is permitted to campaign against a decision of the Party. I would like him to refer to the occasion in 1955 when I was charged before the Federal Executive of the Australian Labor Party. One of the charges was that I had been lukewarm in supporting the policy of the Party against a ban on the Communist Party. Will he take note that I was cross-examined for an hour and a half before the Federal Executive and informed that if a member of the Party campaigned against a federal decision of the Party and the Caucus he was guilty of disloyal and unworthy conduct? Will he inform me when the Australian Labor Party altered what has been a principle ever since there has been an Australian Labor Party? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It concerns the present war between Israel and the Arab States. I have noted the Government's attitude, that it deplores the war, it hopes for peace, but at the moment it maintains a kind of neutrality. However, in view of the fact that the war has now proceeded to the stage where the United States and the Soviet Union are supplying large quantities of arms to both sides, I ask whether it is not time that the Government should use its undoubted influence at the United Nations level and internationally to promote a ceasefire. I do that in the belief that is expressed by leading commentators and critics today that this war is at the stage when it could develop into a world war. 
The Democratic Labor Party will support the motion which the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  has placed before the Senate. We think it is plain commonsense. No member in this House is unaware of the strain under which members have been placed because of the extended hours which were introduced some time ago. A number of Bills of extreme importance which demanded a great deal of study have been placed before the Senate in this session. More Bills have been placed before the Senate this session that perhaps in any other session for many years. We all know that the hours suggested by the Leader of the Government in the Senate will be added to by committee work and by other work which falls to the lot of honourable senators. 
Two Ministers are at present hospitalised because of what can be regarded only as complete exhaustion in trying to cope with the tasks of administering departments and at the same time attending to the Senate, preparing legislation and carrying out all the other ministerial tasks. Other members of this House have been ill in recent weeks. I do not believe that any medical man who examined the way in which the work of the Senate is being carried on at present would come to any other conclusion than that what is being done threatens the health of the ordinary members. 
This is a particularly good time in which to experiment. After all, if we find during the next session that there are reasons for changing these hours we can do so. There will soon be a period when the Senate will be meeting for 6 or 7 weeks and this proposal can be tried. I wonder whether the members of the Liberal Party who, I am told, are opposed to the proposed hours will not bear the shorter hours with great fortitude if they are brought into effect. I do not think that Opposition members will protest very vigorously. I have a kind of feeling that sometimes members of the Opposition say that they wish to work longer hours in the happy knowledge that the members are there to ensure that they will not have to. 
Yes. I point out that whereas they enjoy the privilege of pairs we of this party do not. We have to attend. It has been put to us on occasions that members of the Democratic Labor Party should remain here when others are away because we have a duty to keep the House. When people tell us that it is our duty to over-work ourselves to keep the House it is very nice when others under the guise of pairs are able to stay away from this Parliament. The next 5 or 6 weeks will be worked without the normal week off which we now have after every 3 sitting weeks. The schedule which we have seen indicates that we will be working for 5 or 6 weeks on end. 
A document which I received for my information suggested that that course would be followed. I am sure that other members have a copy, too. 
-Well, if that is the case it would appear that the honourable senator is not in as close liaison with what is happening as we are. 
-I have a feeling that  Senator Young  is not as uninformed on these matters as is being suggested. However, the position is that we have a lot of legislation and it has to be compressed into S or 6 weeks. A referendum is to be held, unless Caucus decided this morning to cut it out. 
A tremendous amount of work is before the Senate. In the interests of the ordinary health of members, I believe, any medical man would commend the proposed hours as better than the present hours. In those circumstances the DLP will vote for the new hours. We believe that matters such as General Business and urgency motions can be ironed out by consultation between the members of the different parties. We believe the proposal is well worth trying. In these days when people say that we should not be conservative and that we ought to be progressive, let us set an example of progressiveness by trying out a new way of running the affairs of this House. So, the position is that the Democratic Labor Party will support the proposal for the new hours. We have the numbers. I am prepared to say that if there were a conscience vote on this issue half the members of the Liberal Party would move over and vote with us. 
I intervene briefly in this debate to indicate that the question of public interest is one that has been discussed at considerable length over the years. I believe that it has come into a number of cases in recent years, particularly under the system evolved in the last couple of years whereby the metal trades employers and the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union get together and make cosy agreements. The basis of those agreements is that they agree on certain very considerable increases in wages and conditions and the employers then recoup themselves at the expense of the community by putting up prices and using the tariff. I merely want to quote briefly a statement on this very question which was made by the late  Mr Chifley  on 20 February 1947. Nobody would accuse him of being anti-union or anti-labour yet he realised what effect there could be on the economy as a result of some of these cosy arrangements. I quote from Hansard what  Mr Chifley  said: 
There are other circumstances that must be guarded against, namely, those that arise as the result of employers and employees engaged in industries which are almost monopolistic coming together and reaching an agreement  . . with a certainty that they will be permitted to pass on to the consuming public the excessive costs arising from such agreements. 

 Mr Chifley went further and pointed out what the danger was because the metal awards had been used as a standard. He went on to say: 
Agreements of that kind - 
The kind that are being negotiated today by the metal employers and the metal trades union- have, in turn, a peculiar effect on other sections of industry which seek similar conditions. 
In other words, there is a demand for a flow-on. I do not want to labour the point but that is a clear statement by one of whom the Australian Labor Party has a very high opinion. The clear statement is that in the case of agreements of the particular kind that he referred to there was a need to conserve the public interest. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Greenwood's amendment)  be left out. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. Is the understanding which all of us had that the Australian Broadcasting Commission services were not available for advertising purposes no longer correct? If it is a fact that the services of the Australian Broadcasting Commission are not available for advertising purposes, could the Senate have an explanation of the advertisements recently given on ABC services, firstly, for a carpet firm and, secondly, for a proposed periodical? 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State. I am sure we are pleased to see that the Minister has returned to the Senate. He was present at the United Nations at a period of great importance particularly in view of the Middle East war, a war which at one time seemed to threaten to develop perhaps into a world war. In view of the importance of the situation will the Minister give us information as to the present state of affairs in the Middle East war? 
-I shall be very brief in my remarks,  Mr Chairman.  I have listened with a keen sense of appreciation to what has been said about the necessity for governments to ensure that members of the 
Commonwealth Industrial Court are properly occupied in their duties. On looking back the thought has come to mind of the biblical statement: 'Let him that is without sin cast the first stone'. Only a few years have elapsed since I brought to the attention of the then Government in this House the allegation that there has been a disagreement between a Chief Judge and two of those who sat with him. Under a peculiar system which I think ought to be eliminated if it has not been eliminated already- if it has not been eliminated, I hope it will be eliminatedwhereby the Chief Judge had the right to allocate cases to those who were associated with him he found that he had no cases to allocate to two of his associates. That happened after he had this profound disagreement with them. 
For nearly 2 years 2 judges of the court, in the employ of the Commonwealth, sat in effect twiddling their thumbs. I made representations to the Government off the record and then I raised the matter in the Senate but the then Government took no action. All that happened was that I heard on the grape vine that the Government was going to play out time for a couple of years until the opportunity arose to transfer the 2 judges concerned to other jurisdictions. The Government in those days let the side down in allowing that to happen. I am foremost in upholding the authority and prestige of members of the courts but when intolerable situations such as this arise it is the duty of governments to do something about it. 
In this case the Democratic Labor Party has decided to vote for the extra 2 judges on the grounds that in our opinion the case for them is unanswerable. At present one judge is incapacitated and some are engaged on other duties. I do not think it is wrong that on occasions they should be asked to officiate in certain capacities. Every government has done that over the years and I see nothing wrong with it. I hope that the Government will not stack the judiciary. This is a matter for governments to look at from the point of view of what is right and I hope that this Government will be as meticulous as other governments have been in ensuring that people are chosen for their qualities as judges and not for their political views. However, in this case as a matter of principle the Democratic Labor Party believes that there is a good case for adding 2 judges to the number. 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. My question refers to a statement made by the Prime Minister at a welcoming banquet given to him by  Mr Chou  En-lai. The statement was: 
In Peking today we give expression to our new international outlook. With no nation is our new aspiration symbolised more than it is with China. 
I ask: Are we to take it that the Prime Minister has now identified Australia with the particular style of current Chinese foreign policy? Are reports from Peking correct that the Prime Minister has undertaken the task of persuading South East Asian countries which have not recognised communist China to recognise that country? 
If we lived in an ideal trade union community we might perhaps look at the propositions being put forward by the Government in regard to amalgamations with a favourable eye. But as anybody here who has had anything to do with trade unions knows, we do not live in an ideal trade union community. The- amalgamation drive is not a new one. We had one during 1946, 1947, 1948 and 1949. Ernie Thornton had amalgamated a number of unions in the ironworkers field. On the basis of the success of that amalgamation which resulted in one of the most corrupt unions from the ballot point of view that we have ever had in this country and which resulted in a union where a communist boss dominated everybody, as  Senator Mulvihill  knows, Ernie Thornton dealt it out to Laurie Short. That was amalgamation. On the basis of this success the Communist Party began a big drive for the amalgamation of trade unions.  Senator Mulvihill  will remember it. In those days, although it was a policy on the books of the Australian Council of Trade Unions to have amalgamations, just as it is now, the leaders of the ACTU were as cold as ice in regard to amalgamations because they knew what they would lead to. In those days the position was that Ernie Thornton could be elected to represent the trade union movement of Australia at international conferences. For that reason the best elements in the trade union movement combined to see to it that the amalgamation move in those days did not succeed. Even in the Soviet Union they did the same thing. 
-Senator Milliner talks in a most insulting way and he uses language that he ought not to use. I am surprised that  Senator Milliner  should use that type of language. I hope that he will endeavour to restrain himself. I say to  Senator Milliner  that in those days the official trade union movement frowned upon amalgamations. In those days we even had the position that the trade unions, such as they are in the Soviet Union, announced that in their view amalgamation was bad for any system of trade unions. Having had big amalgamated unions, they determined to decentralise the whole of the trade union movement in that country. 
What is wrong with amalgamations? Bigness is not necessarily always good. You do not necessarily improve a trade union by amalgamating it with another. One of the troubles with big amalgamations is that the unions become so big that the only way to run them is to have a very large measure of executive control. After all, the biggest amalgamated union in Australia before this proposal to amalgamate was the Australian Workers Union. Who was more eloquent in his allegations that that Union in some respects was being run without regard to the welfare of the rank and file than the Minister? I believe that the Minister put before this Parliament a very powerful case to indicate that in his view the Australian Workers Union, the prime example of amalgamation, was a union in which there was a denial of the rights of the rank and file to a degree that should not have occurred. The Minister was one of the chief attackers of the biggest amalgamated union in this country in certain respects. So it surprised me that he came forward and presented this Bill, although I realise that it is his Party's Bill and his Cabinet's Bill, and is not necessarily solely his responsibility. 
We have had an amalgamation, and what an amalgamation! What percentage of the members voted in the famous amalgamation of the metal trades unions? Was there ever a bigger scandal in regard to democracy than to allege that the amalgamation was democratic when only about 1 7 per cent of the members voted? Do Government Senators call that democracy? If there is to be a takeover of a public company, 90 per cent of the shareholders have to vote. Why does not a trade unionist have the same protection of his interests as is demanded for the shareholder in a company? Surely he deserves the same protection. I believe that he is entitled to protection. People say to me that 50 per cent is too many; that 50 per cent cannot be expected to vote. If 50 per cent of members are not prepared to vote favourably, it means that a majority of the members are not in favour of amalgamation. 
The only other point that needs to be made relates to the history of the big amalgamated unions in other countries.. Go to Great Britain and ask about the Transport and General Workers Union and about democracy in the Amalgamated Engineering Union. 
It does not necessarily have to be a left wing union for ballots to be crook and for the rank and file to be dealt with in a way in which they should not be dealt with. It happens in right wing unions as well as in left wing unions. 
-Well, I was the subject of that type of treatment. It happens in political parties. People are expelled because they stand up for their principles. The point I want to make is that once there is a huge amalgamated organ- .isation democracy flies out the door because it is too big for people to get to the rank and file. That has been the experience and that is why even the Russians turned round and said that they would decentralise the trade unions. 
I thought that the way of dealing with demarcation disputes was determined by the Australian Council of Trade Unions. It has a wonderful policy for dealing with demarcation disputes. The only thing wrong is that it never uses it. The heads of the ACTU do not have the intestinal fortitude to carry out the policy of the ACTU in regard to demarcation disputes. I invite honourable senators on the Government side to tell me where the ACTU has intervened in recent demarcation disputes and has stopped them. 
There might be one or two. But, one of the main features of Bob Hawke 's presidency of the ACTU is that when there is a demarcation dispute he is usually attending a directors' meeting. According to the literature of the Communist Party in this country over the last 30 years, what has been its objective? The communists are quite clear on it. They want to have one big union controlling iron and steel, one big union controlling transport, one big union controlling light, fuel and power, one big union controlling the building industries and one big union controlling all the rest. If they can get 5 big unions like that in a country like Australia, where the average of trade union membership is the highest in the world, and can arrange, as is normally done, for the secretary or man in charge of the amalgamated union to be a communist, they are well on the way to controlling the whole of the economic life of the country. 
Lance Sharkey said repeatedly in his book on the blueprint for the Communist Party in this country that the communists must seek to amalgamate the trade unions and then must use the shop steward movement for the purpose of achieving their ends. It has been stated repeatedly by communist leaders that amalgamation is essential to the achievement of the shop steward organisation under which they will run the industrial life of this country. Whenever I hear men of experience in the trade union movement talking as though the trade union movement was an idealistic organisation in which everybody is as pure as the driven snow - 
Yes, you are brothers until the union fight starts and then you will cut one another's throat without the least compunction. The trade union movement is a movement with great humanitarian ideals, but it is a movement which is under attack by people who have in view political ends which are not for the good of this country. You can see,  Mr Chairman,  that we all agree that the trade union movement is under attack at present by people who have political ends in view. If we let the people with political ends in view obtain control of the trade union movement, we are in for trouble. 
Sometimes I hear people say that communist union secretaries can be good blokes, that they are very efficient and that it is no wonder that many of the workers vote for them. I have heard Labor Party senators say that so-and-so was a communist but he was a good union official. But a communist can never be a good union official because, when the welfare of the union comes up against the welfare of the Communist Party, what does he do? He has to do what the Communist Party wants; otherwise he will not remain a Party member. For that reason I say that when we have people such as Sharkey and others clearly setting out what they are going for, namely, amalgamation and then rank and file control of a sort- not true rank and file control, not true democratic control; but control through the shop steward organisations- we are in for trouble in this country. Therefore, I stand firmly for the present amalgamation provisions. If a union wants to amalgamate, let it get 50 per cent of its members to say yes. In my view that is democracy. 
My question to the Leader, of the Government in the Senate is dictated by statements which have appeared widely in the Australian Press. Has the Government indicated to any Australian in an official position who has been invited to the wedding of Princess Anne that in its view he should not attend? 
I seek leave of the Senate to give a contingent notice of motion. 
I do not propose to detain the Senate for long. This question of Australia's policy in regard to the East should be the subject of a full-scale debate. But in view of what we are to deal with later in the day I propose to confine myself to a few remarks upon one or two aspects of the overseas visit of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  The first matter I want to refer to concerns the statements which have been made in the Press and on the radio, and not denied, that  Mr Whitlam  had made a commitment to work for the cause of Peking or Communist China in South-East Asia with a view to inducing countries in that area to recognise Peking. 
I asked a question relative to that matter in the Senate yesterday. I realise that the newly appointed Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Senator Willesee,  had had a busy morning. He had just been appointed. Therefore, he might not have been so well prepared as he would be on other occasions to deal with this question. But I have to say that the answer which I received from the Minister was, in my view, vague and unsatisfactory. He made a suggestion, which I have not seen confirmed by any other source, that all the Prime Minister offered was that if one of these 
South Eastern Asian countries asked him what he thought about things in China, he would make favourable comment on any proposal that they should recognise Peking or Communist China. In my view, this is not a matter on which the Australian Prime Minister should constitute himself as an agent for the foreign policy of another country. In recent years- particularly, I would say, in recent months- we appear to have adopted the role not of an adviser but of a lecturer to other countries on what their foreign policies ought to be. I believe that what we should do is make it clear what our foreign policy is and to comment as strongly as we like on world affairs, but I repeat that it is not our job to be the agent for the foreign policies of other countries. 
We can recall that not so long ago the Prime Minister made a statement that the people of Thailand should get rid of the American troops inside their country. We recall that the reaction in a leading Thailand statement was that Australia should mind its own bloody business. I think that we asked for that. So far as the Prime Minister is concerned, let us make a statement of what is our foreign policy, but let us not go around telling other people what their foreign policy ought to be. We then had a statement made in the Press, and not denied, that the Prime Minister, contrary to the advice of his foreign office advisers, determined that he would visit Prince Sihanouk. Now the Prince is in the position of being located in a foreign country and is associated with guerrilla actions against the Government of his own country, a Government which we recognise as the Government of his country. We have heard highly virtuous claims over the past 2 years in regard to Yugoslavia. We have been told that it would be unthinkable that we should in any way connive or be associated with any attempt to overthrow the Government of Yugoslavia. At the very time that our Government is taking virtue unto itself, when it is endeavouring to do all it can to prevent any moves in this country to overturn the Government which we recognise in Yugoslavia, the Prime Minister of Australia gives public countenance to one who is doing the very kind of thing for which we attacked the Croats. 
I was interested when I first read that our Prime Minister had gone to see the Prince concerned because it was said in the Press that it was a secret and a private interview, lt was so secret and so private that the Australian Press today pictures the two of them together, the Prince with a beaming smile on his face at this evidence of Australian governmental approbation. 
It was announced. 
By the people who accompanied our Prime Minister. 
I attack the Prime Minister. 
Because we have recognised the Government of that country the same as we recognise Tito. We attack any guerrillas who attempt to enter Yugoslavia for the purpose of attacking that Government. But then our Prime Minister turns around and gives the accolade of Australian approval to one who is engaged with communist forces in subversive activities against his own country. 
Do not quibble. The whole position is this: In what we have done we have aligned Australia with China- make no error about that. The other day we aligned ourselves with China when, although China had exploded and indicated that it would continue to explode atomic bombs, we announced that we had made a treaty with China under which China, in our eyes, would be the most favoured nation. Then the Prime Minister announced in his speech that Communist China was the one country- he emphasised the point, the one countrywith which Australia would be in tune from now on. I deny that statement. Communist China is not the one country with which our future aspirations are in tune. I ask all the people who complained about the statement 'all the way with LBJ': Are they going to make similar complaints about  Mr Whitlam  's proposition 'here and now with Mao and Chou'? What is the opinion of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in regard to this alignment? Does that make for good relations? What will be the opinion of the United States of America when it hears that Communist China is the one country above all with which we aspire to march along in the world of the future? What will be the opinion of Lee Kuan Yew, the socialist whom the Australian Labor Party has invited more than once to this country? What will be his opinion of the action which Australia has taken in this regard? 
Let nobody make any error as to what this means. In the eyes of Eastern Asia Australia is now a Communist Chinese satellite. It has been said by a leading Asian diplomat that Australia now is the running dog of  Chairman  Mao. What have we done to give any other impression? We have indicated that we are prepared to put pressure on South East Asian nations to recognise Communist China.  Mr Whitlam  said on his return years ago from a trip to Asia that in his opinion it was inevitable that the world should be parcelled out in blocs dominated by the great nations. He said that South East Asia inevitably must be the bloc dominated by China.  His  policies since that time have tended in that direction. Is the average Australian convinced that it is to the advantage of our country that we should promote a state of affairs whereby South East Asia becomes a bloc under Communist Chinese domination? Everybody knows what is occurring in those countries. There are dangerous subversive movements financed and assisted from China. I was told not so long ago by a prominent South East Asian diplomat that one of the principal persons in the Government of his country visited China and saw  Chairman  Mao. The subject of recognition was raised and this man said to  Chairman  Mao that it would help for better relations if China did not interfere in his country. He referred to a communist guerrilla organisation and  Chairman  Mao said that his country did not interfere in that country. The South East Asian diplomat was happily surprised. In order to find out, the South East Asian diplomat said: 'But what about the communist liberation movement that you are helping?'  Chairman  Mao said that helping a communist liberation movement was not interference. 
Australia is going to tell the South East Asian countries that they should recognise Communist China. If they do there will be established in each country a Chinese embassy, considerably staffed, containing a small number of diplomats and a large number of agitators. We have been told that here in Australia the Chinese have purchased a motel with 105 rooms. Imagine what the staff is going to be like. Are they all going to be diplomats? We know that they are not, any more than the people attached to the Russian Embassy are all diplomats. There will be a number of people there whose job will be to assist Ted Hill and the Australian Community Party Marxist-Leninist to advance their already considerable influence in the Australian trade union movement. They will assist him with influence and with money. 

 - Senator Milliner has been through the union mill. He might pretend to laugh about communist influence but he knows that it is there, and he knows that the communists will back Ted Hill with money and influence. I think that with their influence Hill will become the controller of that element in the trade union movement in the very near future. Countries in South East Asia do not want communists for the same reason as a lot of African countries got rid of the Chinese. They found out that their embassies were being used for purposes for which they were not intended. They found out that a large proportion of the so-called diplomatic staff consisted of people who were there as communist agitators and the countries had to kick them out. Indonesia was almost the subject of communist takeover. The Communist Party still exists underground and is a powerful party in that country. How can a country like Indonesia regard with equanimity the importation into it of a so-called embassy when a large part of those employed in the embassy are there for one purpose- to assist the Communist organisation inside Indonesia? What about Lee Kuan Yew in Singapore? Does the Government think that he is going to welcome this kind of thing? Does it think that other countries are going to welcome this kind of thing? A lot of people in Australia say that the Chinese will bring a big mob here and that we will just have to learn to live with it. But why wish this on countries where things have reached the stage today that there is active violence, communist sabotage and communist guerrilla organisations in full cry? Australia is suggesting to them that they ought to link up so that they can import into their countries a so-called diplomatic mission, 70 per cent of whose employees will be there for purposes that are not diplomatic. 
I conclude by saying that I regret the alignment of Australia with the advance of communist Chinese influence throughout South East Asia. I think we owe something more to nations in that area than inflicting or attempting to inflict this upon them. I hope that we will have a full scale debate on this issue before long. I believe that there has been an attempt of late to keep the subject of foreign affairs out of the Senate. A number of things have disturbed me. Over the years we have had the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence which has devoted itself to hearing and collecting information about what is happening in a number of countries where foreign affairs are important. The Joint Committee did not meet for 7 months under the then new Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Whitlam,  and when it did meet, instead of proceeding to its normal and accustomed duty of gathering information in regard to foreign affairs, it received a reference from the Minister to examine the question of the Omega installations. Admittedly it was an important question, but it was not one for the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. 
We all know why we received the reference. The Government was in trouble in getting its own Caucus to approve of Omega, and some genius had the brilliant idea that the Goverment would send the question to the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. Half the members of that Committee represented the Opposition side of the Parliament and I was an extra, and the Government was sure that four or five of those members would vote for Omega. So it was a way of using the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to get through something which the Government was not able to get through its own Caucus. We spent weeks considering the question. 
-Who knows it better than  Senator Milliner?  He knows how these things are done. He has been round the course. He knows why the question was referred to the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. Then in case the Committee should ever get on to the proper job of finding out what is happening in foreign affairs from Australian diplomats and visitors, we have received another reference. In order to keep us from hearing the views of anybody else, the Government has asked us to inquire into the question of dual nationality. Both of these questions- Omega and dual nationality- are jobs for small expert committees. I am pleased to say that at its last meeting the  Chairman  of the Committee was able to assure us that we would be hearing from visitors and diplomats and that we would be proceeding to what I regard- others may have a different opinion- as the No. 1 responsibility of our Committee. I look forward to our Committee being conducted in the way that I have wanted it to be conducted and hope that it will be conducted in the future. 
I conclude by saying that I hope that foreign affairs issues will not be sidetracked. They are most important. I believe that they are the most important issues that we can discuss in this Parliament. I am glad that I have had even a short opportunity to say something on them. 

 Senator WILLESEE (Western AustraliaSpecial Minister of State and Minister for Foreign Affairs)-  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I claim to have been misrepresented. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  I will call  Senator Turnbull  to speak, but  Senator Willesee  wishes to make a personal explanation. 
The answer to the second part of the honourable senator's question as to whether  Mr Whitlam  was going to explain Chinese policy to the rest of South East Asia is that  Mr Whitlam  was very clear that he was not going to be an advocate or an apologist for the People's Republic of China but that if anybody was to discuss it with him he would make very clear what Australia's attitude was towards recognition and how we are getting on with the People 's Republic of China. 

 Senator McManus interjected and said: 'In other words, he is going to do it '? I replied: 
There is no question of 'in other words'; those were the words. 
I hardly see how  Senator McManus  can claim that that is vague or that I said the very opposite of what I did say.  Mr Whitlam  very clearly said this. Somehow or other  Senator McManus  links that up by saying exactly the opposite. I suggest that very obviously it was a complete misrepresentation of what was said, and I suggest that the rest of his speech ought to be treated in the same manner. 

 Senator McMANUS (Victoria- Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party)-  Mr Acting Deputy President,  have I a right to comment? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Only if you claim that you have been misrepresented. 
-I claim that I have been misrepresented. I point out that the answer which I received from  Senator Willesee  was vague, and I suggest that he misrepresents me when he attempts to suggest that it was not vague. The other matter is that  Senator Willesee  admitted that the Prime Minister of Australia (  Mr Whitlam)  was going to discuss these matters -and he put in the provision 'if they asked him'. I merely say this:  Mr Whitlam  will see that they ask him. 
-A Bill of this nature is, in my view, one of the most important Bills that can come before the Australian Parliament. In the circumstances, it is unfortunate that it comes before us in the midst of a welter of other legislation which has afflicted this Parliament with the severest bout of legislative indigestion that I have ever known. We are being called upon to examine Bills of this nature- most important Bills demanding the most comprehensive inquiry- and at the same time we have placed before us a series of Bills which will completely revolutionise the economic system of Australia. We are told that before Christmas we must revolutionise divorce, civil rights, overseas investment, the tariff, trade practices, fringe banking and a host of other questions. The fact that in the middle of this program we have placed before us this most important Bill which, as I said, demands the closest and most comprehensive scrutiny illustrates the problem that we face in dealing with the legislative program. 
The problem of trying to deal with this welter of legislation is a serious one in a Party such as mine where we have only 5 senators. We must divide our forces in the endeavour to conduct research into this wide span of legislation and to determine what should be done in the interests of the country. Despite that, we have endeavoured to give all the attention that we could to this Bill. We have endeavoured to obtain information, advice and research knowledge from the widest possible body of Australians. Personally, I have received 3 1 deputations. I have received a large number of telegrams and letters. I have endeavoured to deal with all of them because I concede the right of the people in the democracy to put their views and, as far as possible, to receive an answer. 
As I said before, when we have the situation that, accompanying an important Bill such as this, there is a wide variety of other legislation, it can be understood that members reach a stage of almost complete exhaustion. I will merely refer to the fact that so much is being attempted and so much strain is being put on Ministers and members that 3 members of this Senate- 2 Ministers- and one member of the House of Representatives, who is the Minister who initiated this Bill in the other place, the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  have in recent weeks been overcome by illnesses resulting from straight out exhaustion and overwork. We are pleased that some of them are already back with us. We look forward to their health being good in the future. But I believe that, if this pattern continues and if the strain being put on Ministers and members continues with this plethora of legislation, all of which we are told we must deal with immediately and rush through, this program will have the gravest effect upon the health of members of this Parliament, as has already been seen by the illnesses of quite a number of members who have had very difficult, very time consuming and very exhausting tasks to carry out. 
Behind much of the representation made to us has been the fear that there will be no commission. I believe that that fear is ungrounded. I believe that there will be a commission. As far as my party is concerned, we will make every endeavour to see that there is a commission and we will try to make it an effective commission. I have no fears that there will not be a commission. But, even if there were not, Senators on the Government side of the chamber have emphasised that they will be able to carry out the tasks expected of the proposed commission merely by resorting to a commission of the type which presented the interim report, known as the Karmel Report. Government members say straight out: 'If we do not get the commission that we want, we will work the other way'. They are saying that they want the right to appoint a commission consisting solely of people whom they approve and if we do not give them the right to appoint each member of that commission they will set up a form of commission by which they can appoint whom they wish. When so many bodies put into education in this country a tremendous amount of voluntary service, I make no apology for saying that my belief is that those bodies are entitled to be named and represented and are entitled to appoint their representatives. As a result of the work that they have done, I believe that they can be trusted to appoint their representatives. I stand by that statement because I was a teacher for nineteen and a half years, and I was a good teacher unionist. In my day our battle was to have teachers and education organisations represented by their nominees and not by people whom any government thought would do a better job than the people whom we wanted. 
We determined our attitude on one important question in relation to the Commission- that is, the representation of the States- only late today. We came to the conclusion that education being a State instrumentality and the Federal Government being in the situation that it must seek the co-operation of the States there is less likelihood of the stress and the strains to which  Senator James  McClelland quite fairly referred and there is more likelihood of co-operation if the State governments or the State education systems are represented on the Commission. We feel that they have something to contribute. We feel that it cannot be assumed that they will be uncooperative. They will not represent one school of thought because different parties are in power in the States. We have given a lot of consideration to whether the representation should go to the extent that it does, and we have come to the conclusion that we should stand by that representation in the ground that, in our view, it offers a prospect of proper co-operation between the States and the Commonwealth which the Karmal report said ought to be sought. The Karmel Report lays much emphasis upon the necessity for the system to be a federal one, and 'federal' envisages that there shall be co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States. We came to the conclusion, very late, after much inquiry and after sounding out a great number of people, that we should support the first amendment proposed by  Senator Rae. 
We do not agree with the first 2 parts of  Senator Rae's  proposed amendment No. 4 which suggest that the Australian Teachers Federation and the Australian Council of State School Organisations should have to submit a panel and that the Government should select from that panel the people who will be on the Commission. As far as I am concerned- my Party agrees- I think that we ought to trust the Australian Teachers Federation and the Australian Council of State School Organisations to appoint their representatives. We are beholden to that attitude because the third part of that amendment seeks to give to the Education Executive of the Episcopal Conference of Australia, the National Council of Independent Schools and the Australian Parents Council, which are organisations of schools of different religions, the right to appoint their representatives straight out. We see no reason why the independent schools should have the right to appoint their representatives, yet the Australian Teachers Federation and the Australian Council of State School Organisations should not be permitted to appoint their representatives but should be informed that they will have to submit a panel for the consideration of the Minister. For that reason, at the Committee stage I shall move an amendment which I hope will get Opposition support. Naturally members of the Opposition will express their opinion later. I shall move amendments by which the Australian Teachers Federation and the Australian Council of State School Organisations will be given the same privilege as the independent schools organisations. 
We will also support removal of the suggestion that a primary object of the Government should be to support or to give major support to schools of one character. I believe that the primary object of the Government should be to support all the children of Australia, no matter which school they attend. I would not like to see enshrined in legislation a suggestion that one group of children has prior rights compared with other children. I am sympathetic to suggestions that the emphasis in a Bill of this character should be on children rather than on schools. I have heard suggestions at different times that there would be a constitutional challenge to legislation of this character as it affected independent schools, and it would appear to me that one point which would be inquired into by people opposed to independent schools would be whether aid, if it is given to schools, might be challenged under the Constitution, whereas by giving aid to children it would not perhaps be so obviously open to challenge. 
We owe a debt of gratitude to the members of the Karmel Committee. I think they performed a tremendous task. I am sorry that they were not given more time. I appreciate the anxiety of the Government to get things moving in this sphere as in so many other spheres, but I think that better legislation is nearly always obtained when people are allowed reasonable time and are not called on to act with undue haste. We note that the Government has not been prepared to accept all the Committee's recommendations. The Government as yet has made no decision on section 1 3 of the report. I do not think it is any secret that one of the reasons for not yet making a decision is that in some quarters there have been contentions that implementation of that section might lead to an undue measure of control upon some schools. I was sorry, when a reasonably good job was done, that action was taken to deny a number of schools the aid which had already been promised. Before the election I heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  at the West Melbourne Stadium. On the platform he received tremendous cheering when he said: 'No aid already being given will be withdrawn'. That statement can be heard on tape by anybody who, after reading about Watergate, wants to know whether the actual words can be heard. The Prime Minister made the statement that no aid already being given would be withdrawn. He was applauded by thousands of people. That statement was echoed by the shadow Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley,  on more than one occasion during the election campaign. 
I think that it was unfortunate that a measure which promised so much for the future of Australian education was, as it were, harmed in the eyes of many people, though perhaps it should not have been, because people felt that a promise had been given and it had been broken. In my comments later I said that the honourable thing for the Government to do was to maintain the level of aid which had been given to all students prior to the election and then to implement in the future the needs provision for which the Australian Labor Party believed it had a mandate. Even at this late stage when there would be only 40 or SO schools still denied what was promised, I make a plea to the Government to say: 'Well, we made a promise. We do not want to be regarded as people who make election promises and then flout them or break them. Therefore we will continue the present level of aid to all schools but so far as the future is concerned we will implement our policy '. 
The Democratic Labor Party will vote for the second reading of this Bill and we intend to do all we can to ensure that a Commission is established. While there has been a Democratic Labor Party it has voted for every measure which offered progress for education. I have spoken on many measures and I have repeatedly urged the necessity of greater Commonwealth assistance for all the children of Australia. Some people say all forms of education'. I say assistance should be provided for all the children of Australia. I believe that the interest shown by quite a number of honourable senators in debates concerning the future of Australian education has had a very good effect. I believe that we are entitled not necessarily to accept the kind of Commission which the Government wants where it appoints the whole eleven or twelve members of the Commission. I believe that in a democracy interests which put in a great deal of voluntary and other work for education should have the right to present their own nominees. I notice that in legislation referring to rural industries persons associated with those rural industries are nominated for representation on any organisations which may be set up in that field. 
I conclude by saying once again that we will vote for the second reading of this BDI. We believe that the Government should be reasonable and accept our point of view that interests are entitled to be represented by persons they choose themselves and not have people nominated by others to represent them. 
I am in favour of acceding to the request received from the other House. If we had agreed to have a joint meeting some years ago when this matter came up, probably the foundations of the new parliament house would have been laid and the building would be on the way. I see nothing wrong with members of this Parliament meeting as a union of members and taking a democratic decision. I am sorry that, as happened in 1969, constitutional and legal difficulties are being raised. They were raised then and they resulted in no decision being made for years afterwards. I am 100 per cent in favour of agreeing to have a joint meeting; and when it is held, if it is held, I will be voting for Capital Hill. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister who is in charge of the Australian Council for the Arts. Has the Minister noted the statement attributed to  Mr John  Harper-Nelson, former Executive Officer of the West Australian Arts Advisory Board, that he has resigned and that in his view the Australian Council for the Arts is a strange and secretive organisation- a vast, didactic, dictatorial organisation with a huge staff and a huge budget whose money seems to be directed to certain arts channels while others are-  Mr President,  there appears to be a caucus meeting in progress. I find it hard to make myself heard. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister who is in charge of the Council for the Arts. Has the Minister noted the statement attributed to  Mr John  Harper-Nelson, executive officer of the West Australian Arts Advisory Board, that he has resigned and that in his view the Australian Council for the Arts is a strange and secretive organisation and a vast didactic, dictatorial organisation with a huge staff and a huge budget, whose money seems to be directed to certain arts channels while others- he mentions Western Australia- are neglected? As this is one more in a long series of complaints about the Council by people of authority in the field of the arts- for example,  Sir Robert  Helpmann- has the Government any plans to re-organise control of the Council for the Arts to ensure that it does not become the personal empire of a small executive group? 
-by leave-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That there be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts the following matter Procedures, organisation and action necessary to ensure that the Australian Council for the Arts and its boards properly and effectively carry out their task of overall promotion of the arts in Australia. 
by leave-  Mr President,  I concur with my learned friends. 

 Senator MURPHY (New South WalesAttorneyGeneral and Minister for Customs and 
Excise) (4.30)-  Mr President,  we all seem to be of the same mind on this matter- that this is a non-party issue. That holds true for the members of the Government Party in this chamber. On 25 October 1973 the following message was received from the House of Representatives: 
The House of Representatives transmits to the Senate the following resolution which was agreed to by the House of Representatives this day and requests the concurrence of the Senate therein: 
This House is of the opinion that (a) the site for the new and permanent parliament house should be determined forthwith; (b) a joint meeting of the Senate and the House of Representatives should be convened to determine the matter; and (c) planning for the new parliament house should commenec immediately. 
In view of that message having been received, I move: 
1 ) That the Senate, consistent with its resolution of 6 May 1971, which was transmitted to the House of Representatives by message No. 153 of 1 97 1 , concurs in the resolution transmitted to it in message No. 20 1 of the House of Representatives, viz.- 
That this House is of the opinion that- 
The site for the new and permanent parliament house should be determined forthwith; 
A joint meeting of the Senate and the House of Representatives should be convened to determine the matter; and 
planning for the new house should commence immediately. 
That the foregoing resolution be communicatecd to the House of Representatives by message. 
This matter was considered by the Senate on 6 May 1971. The Senate then took the view, in substance, that there ought to be a sitting of the members of the Senate and of the House of Representatives in order to dispose of this issue. I will remind the Senate of what was then decided. It was: 
That the Senate- 
Believing that the decision as to the site of the new and permanemt Parliament House is and remains the responsibility of those members of the Senate and the House of Representatives who constitute the Parliament of the Commonwealth; 
Recommends that a joint sitting of the two Houses or other form of general conference be convened to express, by resolution, the point of view of the assembled members of the Parliament as between Capital Hill and Camp Hill area; 
Recommends further for the consideration of the House of Representatives- 
1 ) that the proposed joint meeting be held on a day and time to be fixed by  Mr President  and  Mr Speaker  and that the joint meeting consist of Senators and Members of the House of Representatives; 
that  Mr President  and  Mr Speaker  be joint chairmen of the joint meeting and be empowered, if they think it necessary, to draw up regulations for the conduct of such joint meeting; and 
that at such a joint meeting there be no debate on the subject matter of the alternative sites and that the question be decided by a majority of votes; 
Invites Members of the House of Representatives to join with Senators in the Senate Chamber or such other place as may be determined by  Mr President  and  Mr Speaker  for the purpose of the joint meeting; 
And further invites the House of Representatives to suggest any alternative to or modification of the Senate's proposal, with a view to the convening of a joint meeting of members of the Senate and the House of Representatives to determine finally the question where the new and permanent Parliament House be situated. 
That the foregoing Resolution be communicated to the House of Representatives, by Message, requesting the consideration by that House of the Resolution. 
I moved that motion on 6 May 1971 and it was carried. The House of Representatives, by its message, has now suggested a similar proposalthat there be a joint meeting to determine the site- and also has suggested that planning for the new parliament house should commence immediately. I believe that consistently with what was determined by the resolution of the Senate on 6 May 1971, we should concur in the proposition for a joint meeting. The proposal for a joint meeting, if concurred in, can be followed by some machinery proposals to be agreed upon between the Houses. That should cause no difficulty. 
It is simply a meeting of the members of the Houses in order that they may express their view. It is not intended, as I understand it either in what was proposed in May 1971 or in what is proposed now by the House of Representatives, that this meeting should be operative in the sense of an Act in the law. It is not. It is merely a means of ascertaining in a regular way what are the wishes of those persons who happen to be the members of both Houses. So it would not be a sitting in any constitutional or legislative sense. It would be a manner of determining where we think the site should be. 
I  move: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts, the following matter- Procedures, organisation and action necessary to ensure that the Council for the Arts, and its Boards, properly and effectively carry out their task of over-all promotion of the Arts in Australia. 
Honourable senators will notice that  I  said Council for the Arts', which is the correct title, not 'Council of the Arts' as appears on the notice paper. If it is necessary to get leave to alter the motion,  I  will seek leave. 
-The Australian Democratic Labor Party will not support the Representation Bill. This Bill was previously before the Senate and was defeated but it has now been returned. Its purpose is to give representation in the Senate to the Australian Capital Territory and possibly to the Northern Territory also. As we said before,'we believe that the Senate while it is a House of review is also a States House. The history of the negotiations which took place for the formation of the Senate shows that it was clearly understood that the Senate would be a House where the States would each enjoy equal representation. We do not see that either of the Territories has yet arrived at the stage where it should receive senatorial representation. I will not detain the Senate long because this matter has been previously debated. I merely say that I regret the continual tendency of another place to attempt to interfere in the Senate. 
Not long ago we had an attempt which the people rightly rejected to break the nexus between the Senate and the House of Representatives in a way which would have destroyed the basis of representation as between the 2 Houses, and could have resulted in the Senate becoming an inferior House under the Australian Constitution. The people rightfully defeated that attempt to interfere in the affairs of the Senate. We now have this proposal which could alter the very delicate balance in the Senate upon which many people are relying at present so that the Senate can restrain the spate of legislation which comes into the Senate at a rate that has never been seen in parliamentary history. When we have so much legislation being capriciously and hastily rushed into the Senate it is all the more necessary that the Senate should retain its status as a guardian, or rather a watchdog, of proper parliamentary procedures. We now have other proposals based on other lines, which I will not debate now because they have yet to come before us, to interfere with the term for which senators are elected. I believe that there is a deliberate attempt for some reason to interfere with the affairs of the Senate and to make it an inferior House instead of the House the designers of our Constitution intended it to be, that is, a House having its own strong place in our Constitution. For that reason the Democratic Labor Party will not vote for this proposal to alter the basis upon which the future numbers in the Senate may depend. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
1 ) How many homes were raided in Sydney in the last series of raids upon Croatians. 
How many charges were laid as a result. 
How many of the charges referred to activity of a political character. 
How many of the Croatians concerned had property confiscated. 
5 ) In how many cases has the property not been returned. 
Why has such property not been returned. 
I thank the honourable senator. I will be very brief because I realise that  Senator Davidson  has been rather frustrated in his attempts to get the call. One organisation which has made representations to me knows the 2 representatives who are supposed to represent its point of view on the commission. Everybody knows who they will be. It wants to appoint is own representatives. I believe that is democracy. 
The honourable senator knows who the 2 people are- Father Martin and  Mr McNamara. 
-I am not saying anything is wrong with them. I am saying that they do not represent the organisations which we were told they were representing. They were appointed by the Government. Is that not true? Everybody knows that they will be appointed this time. Is there anything undemocratic in the organisations which they are supposed to represent being allowed to nominate them? I do not see anything wrong with that. In union affairs, do not the unions agitate for the right to nominate their people? Of course they do. Why is it right for unionists and wrong for educationists? 
I can only say this: When I was a member of the Australian Labor 
Party I was responsible for quite a number of people being appointed to boards of different government instrumentalities as union representatives, but I always insisted that they be chosen by their union, not by the government. 
I wish to continue. I promised to be brief, and I will be. I see nothing wrong in people being nominated by the organisations which they are supposed to represent. Under this Bill there is no obligation on the Government to give representation to any organisation. It can please itself. It can pick and choose. I do not think that is democratic. For 26 years I was on the Victorian Board of Adult Education. Each member of the Board, except two, was nominated by an organisation. If that is good enough for the Victorian Board of Adult Education, why is not it good enough for this Commission. 
-Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs make a statement on the situation in Vietnam? Are reports correct that the scale of fighting has increased? Are predictions correct that shortly full scale warfare is likely to be resumed? Does the Australian Government have in mind any initiative to try to control the situation and to ensure that there is a real cease fire? 
 The Australian Democratic Labor Party will support the amendment. We believe in the principle of representation that has been enunciated by  Senator Rae,  although when it comes to the discussion of the amendment we will propose in certain instances a different basis of representation. I will not at this stage go into all the issues that could be raised. I think the major debate should take place upon the amendments to be moved later. We support the increase in the membership of the Schools Commission to fourteen because we in the Democratic Labor Party intend to move an amendment of our own in regard to the basis of representation. 
(5.36)- I am grateful to the Committee for its forbearance, and it probably will save time because otherwise honourable senators would be in the position of perhaps having to rise again to debate the particular points which I make. I intend to move on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party the following amendment: 
After clause 4, insert the following new clauses: 4a. The members of the Commission shall be appointed as follows- 
the  Chairman  and three other members upon the recommendation of the Minister of whom one shall be a person involved in research in relation to education; 
four other members upon the recommendation of the Australian Education Council of whom one shall be a person involved in special education of handicapped children or children with special learning difficulties; 
three other members of whom one shall be appointed upon the recommendation of the Education Executive of the Episcopal Conference of Australia, one shall be upon the recommendation of the National Council of Independent Schools and one shall be upon the recommendation of the Australian Parents ' Council; 
two other members who shall be appointed upon the recommendation of the Australia Teachers' Federation; and 
two other members who shall be appointed upon the recommendation of the Australian Council of State School Organisations. ' 
Under this amendment every one of the members of the Schools Commission, with the exception of the  Chairman  and the 3 members whom the Minister shall recommend, shall be appointed upon the recommendations of the bodies concerned. Therefore, the difference between my amendment and that moved by  Senator Rae  is that he envisages that certain representatives shall be appointed from a panel whilst my amendment envisages that the representatives shall all be nominated direct by the organisations concerned. Under  Senator Rae's  amendment the representatives of the independent schools would be nominated direct and others, such as teacher representatives, would be nominated from the panel. My Party thinks that it would be undesirable to have a distinction between the methods of selection of the representatives of teachers and state school parents and the representatives of the independent schools. We propose that they all be nominated direct- other than the  Chairman  and the 3 other members who are to be appointed on the recommendation of the Minister. 
I will move that amendment because I think that this Schools Commission- we supported the Commission and voted for the second reading of the Bill, as my Party has supported every progressive move that has been brought forward in respect of education in this Senate and in this Parliament- ought to have a reasonable degree of independence and for the life of me I cannot understand how the claim can be made that a commission, every member of which is appointed by the Government, will be an independent commission. If the people who are to be on this Commission are all to be appointed by the Government and to be reappointed by the Government there cannot be any independence about this Commission because, as everybody knows, governments tend to appoint people who will play ball. Therefore, if a large number of the members of this Commission represent organisations interested in education I believe that it will be a more independent Commission than one whose members' tenure of office depends entirely upon the will of the Minister. I believe that such a commission will be flexible as well as independent. It will be flexible because people will not be chosen for it on the basis that they will all play the same tune. 
I point out that there has been totally unfair propaganda in regard to this Commission. It has appeared in some of the communications and even through some of the deputations that I have received. I do not know of any Bill in respect of which my Party has received more deputations and more representations. I personally have interviewed 32 deputations on this Bill. I have had a long discussion with the Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley-  I stop to say that I deeply regret his illness; we all have the utmost regard for him and hope that he will make a very speedy recovery- and with a large number of people associated with education in order to reach a right opinion in regard to this matter. Most of the representations were fair, but it was obvious to me that many of the people making representations had been misled in a most reprehensible way. They told me that they were under the impression that if we moved and carried our amendments in respect of representation the whole Bill would be dropped and millions of dollars which were to be made available for education would not be made available. I have been told by people who know- I have heard the Minister say this-that, obviously if the Government does not accept a Bill amended in the way we desire to amend this Bill, the Government has the power to reappoint a Karmel-type committee which will proceed to do all the work which the permanent or semi-permanent commission could do. 
Therefore, all these stories to the effect that unless the Senate passes the Bill just as it is there will not be any commission or any money represent false and malicious propaganda of the worst possible type, because the Government was able without legislation to appoint the Karmel Committee and it can, if it wants to, without legislation appoint another committee of the Karmel type to do the job. 
I would like to know. 
-If the Minister has not said it I will withdraw that comment; but it has been said in many circles, let me put it that wayand in many authoritative circles. I ask the Government senators here: Is it a fact that if this Bill goes through as we want to amend it the Government can refuse to implement the Bill and can appoint a Karmel-type committee which can do practically all the things which the Commission could do? There is silence. That indicates that it is untrue that this is a question of a commission or no commission. This is a question of a commission wholely appointed by the Government or a commission containing representatives of bodies interested in education. 
I found that many of the people on the deputations which I received were surprised when I told them that if we carried this Bill as we desired to amend it, it would not mean the end of the Commission or of the money which was to be made available for education. They told me that they had definitely been led to believe that not lc of the $400m or $500m would be made available. When I pointed out that the Government could, if it wished, appoint another Karmel-type committee to do a similar job, they were pleasantly surprised. I received a very large deputation on the day that the motion for the second reading of the Bill was being debated. It represented, I was told, the teachers organisation from each State and also the parents of state school children. I said: 'For 19.5 years I was a teacher, and I was an active unionist. The great battle in those 19.5 years was a battle by the teachers to get the right to appoint their representatives to government education bodies. I helped to win that battle. I am amazed that the wheel has now turned full circle. After I battled, as a unionist, for 19.5 years to get the right for teachers to be represented by their own people on government education bodies, I now find teachers coming to me and saying that they do not want to appoint their representatives; they would like the Government to appoint people for them'. They said: 'We would like to nominate our representatives'. The representatives of the parents of state school children said: 'It would do us if we could nominate our representatives'. I said: 'That is strange. If you are happy to be represented by your people rather than by people appointed by the Government, why do I have all these representations asking me to pass the Bill?' Afterwards one of them said to me: 'The reason,  Senator, is  that we were told that we had to accept the Bill, the whole Bill and nothing but the Bill and that we might lose everything if we did not accept the Government's point of view'. I was informed by the teachers' representative and by a prominent representative of parents of state school children that they would like to appoint their representatives but that they had been told from some source that if they did so they would not get the Bill. Is that not an attack on their independence? 
I will not bring him into this discussion. I have the highest respect for him, and he is not well. I do not allege any misleading by  Mr Beazley.  When these people left me they told me that they would be very happy to appoint their own representatives. A few hours after they left I heard a Press statement from one who was connected with them to the effect that some of them had changed their minds or had had their minds changed for them because, they said, on thinking it over they intended to return to the old principle that the Minister should appoint all the members. 
We all know what happens in such cases. I have been a senator for 14 years. I often hear Ministers, when they want to get their way on matters involving credit unions, old peoples homes and the like, say to the people concerned: If you attempt to interfere with the Bill at all you will lose the lot'. Ministers from each of the major political parties have done it. That tactic has been used on this occasion, and an attempt has been made to high pressure the Opposition. As a result of my experiences in the trade union movement and in the Labor movement I became a connoisseur of high pressure tactics. In this case neither I nor my Party will be pressured. We believe in the principle of people selecting their representatives. If the Government does not accept that principle, it has the remedy in its hands. It can appoint another Karmel-type committee, but it cannot expect members on this side of the chamber to sacrifice a principle in which they believe just to suit the convenience of the Government. 
One group wishes to select its representatives because it was not given any voice and was not even allowed to put up a panel on the last occasion. A statement was made that the representative of that group had approved the whole of the Karmel Committee's report so far as the per capita grants were concerned, but he certainly did not represent the views of that group when he made that statement. 
I formally move the amendment which I foreshadowed in my previous speech, namely: 
After Clause 4, insert the following new clauses: 4a. The members of the Commission shall be appointed as follows: 
the  Chairman  and three other members upon the recom mendation of the Minister of whom one shall be a person involved in research in relation to education; 
four other members upon the recommendation of the Australian Education Council of whom one shall be a person involved in special education of handicapped children or children with special learning difficulties; 
three other members of whom one shall be appointed upon the recommendation of the Education Executive of the Episcopal Conference of Australia, one shall be upon the recommendation of the National Council of Independent Schools and one shall be upon the recommendation of the Australian Parents' Council; 
two other members who shall be appointed upon the recommendation of the Australian Teachers' Federation; and 
two other members who shall be appointed upon the recommendation of the Australian Council of State School Organisations. 4b. A member shall not be responsible to the person, body or organisation which recommended the member's appointment. ' 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Senator McManus')  be agreed to. 
As this is consequential to the amendment which was moved by my Party, naturally we will support it. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party has given much thought to this clause, and we think that the amendment moved by  Senator Rae  adequately reflects our view upon this matter. We think that he has made a very strong case. He has pointed to a number of authorities. We will therefore be voting for his amendment. 
The Democratic Labor Party will support the amendment. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Air. Having regard to the extreme economic cuts announced in Royal Australian Air Force operations, can the Government explain why it has underwritten extremely costly actions to assist gliding contests and operations to be held in Australia? Will the Government inform us of the full extent of RAAF assistance ordered and the estimated cost? 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party will support the motion. This is one more example of the degree to which we are prepared to cooperate in facilitating the passage of legislation after it has been properly examined and dealt with. I have noticed statements in sections of the Press which appeared to me not to have very much consistency. On one day we read that the Senate is frustrating the Government and holding up legislation. The next day we read claims by the Labor Government that Parliament has passed a record number of Bills. Both statements cannot be right. We cannot be creating records in the passage of legislation while at the same time not co-operating in getting legislation through. I regret to say that there is a certain testiness about some of the Government's comments. I would not mind the Government's saying that it objects to the arguments which we have put forward in regard to the necessity for fuller examination of certain Bills but I object to the statement that we have no right to take adequate time to examine these Bills. Of course we have the right. 
I do not think anybody will be high-pressured by testy statements that we ought not to be doing this or that in relation to a particular Bill. We look at what is happening in another place and see Bills which can have a very serious effect upon the economic life of this country, having the guillotine placed upon them. A Bill which might have 162 clauses, many of them of considerable importance, is hurried through the House of Representatives which is told: 'It will go through in a couple of hours whether you like it or not'. There is an urgent need for the Senate, when such a Bill has not been properly examined in the other place, to see that it is properly examined by this chamber or by the instrumentalities which are available to this chamber. 
I am glad that we are retaining the system whereby we close at 7 o'clock on Tuesdays and Thursdays, even though we open a couple of hours earlier. The system of closing at 7 o clock on Tuesdays and Thursdays will certainly extend the lives of many honourable senators who are sitting here today. It is more normal to do business during the day and complete it at a time of night which gives honourable senators an opportunity for some rest even though, in some cases, they have to sit on committees or to examine Bills which have been placed before Parliament. I have never seen such a flood of legislation come before a Parliament as we have had. 
I have made 2 Press statements that we were suffering from legislative indigestion, suggesting that it was unfair to be pouring all this legislation onto the Senate. I made these 2 Press statements and I had hardly a word published. I was interested to note that last Saturday the Leader of the Liberal Party  (Mr Snedden)  and the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  in the other place made statements which were practically repetitions of what I tried to say on 2 occasions which the Press ignored. It gave wide coverage to what the 2 right honourable members had to say. I do think that we might have got a place in the sun- I do not mean the 'Sun' newspaper, but a place in the sun generally- when we made 2 statements. Apparently our statements were ignored but those by other people were given wide publicity. I ask honourable senators to look at the nature of some of these Bills. We have gone to a good deal of trouble to examine Bills. We do not want to throw them out without a proper examination. I had 32 deputations in relation to the Schools Commission Bill. I saw all sorts of people. In relation to the Bill dealing with the Australian Industry Development Corporation even  Dr J.  F. Cairns has paid tribute to the fact that we have seen members of his Department and obtained information in relation to the Bill. 
-I know. We are accused of holding up many Bills and they have not been brought before us. We have not even seen them. Let us take as an example the Bill in regard to the AIDC. The other day I read in the newspaper that  Dr J.  F. Cairns had suggested that the Government might not persist with one of the proposals in relation to money being made available on forced loans from insurance companies. We have not even received the Bill. We read in the Press that the Bill will probably be altered. Then we are attacked in the Press by people who say that we are holding up the Bill. But apparently the Government has not even yet decided what will be in the Bill. 
My Party has only 5 members in this chamber and there is a tremendous amount of legislation. I understand that we will get Bills on divorce and Bills on human rights. Honourable senators can imagine the effect that a Bill covering human rights will have and the amount of examination that will be necessary. I do not know how a Party with 5 members can be expected to cope with all this. I only say that I agree with the statement attributed to  Mr Clyde  Cameron when, the other day, in addressing a meeting he said that he felt that it might be wiser if the Government concentrated on three or four major Bills each year. I think that there is a bit of commonsense in that. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales) (3.41)- I want to speak only very briefly. I will support the motion but there are a number of caveats which I want to issue. When I spoke on the occasion of  Senator Murphy's  previous motion I indicated that generally I was in  support of the shorter sitting times. I certainly support the concept that we should not be sitting late at night. Traditionally down through the years- this is my own experience- when we come to the end of a period of sittings there is a need to extend the sitting hours in an attempt to accomplish the Government's legislative program. That has always happened and, in the generality, the Opposition has always supported this principle with an exception which I will refer to in a moment and which seems significant. Equally, I believe that when we come to the end of a sitting Government business should take precedence. There is an attitude of mind which we in the Opposition acknowledge in relation to this as we have already shown during some of the sittings in the present Budget session. So I am in support of the motion with the caveats which I issue. 
I think that 7 o'clock is an impossible hour to finish. I go along with the concept that we might even start earlier and not continue until 7 o 'clock to get the end result which the Government wants. To me 7 o'clock is in between heaven and earth because of the normal times for meals, our association with the other place, and so on. If we have an adjournment debate at 7 o'clock it might easily be half past seven before we adjourn. Of course this ruins the concept of any work in the evening. That is the sort of caveat which I issue in relation to this matter. I just add one or two other points. I agree with  Senator Withers, Senator McManus  and  Senator Drake-Brockman  about misleading, and what I would like to call inspired, reporting in relation to the conduct of this Senate. Reference has been made to the fact that Bills which were not even before us have been said to be delayed by the Opposition. I am sure that  Senator Murphy  will appreciate this. By way of interjection he referred to the delay and deferment caused by this side of the chamber in relation to the Trade Practices Bill. 
In the context of the motion which we are debating I think I need to remind the Senate and  Senator Murphy,  in relation to the problem of the buildup of Bills now that we are coming towards the end of the session of a motion dated 1 June 1972. 1 remember this well because I was sitting in the chair in which he is sitting now. It was under Order of Business at page 2474.  Senator Murphy,  the Leader of the Opposition as he then was, moved by leave: 
That Government business after order of the day No. 10 be postponed to the first day of the next sittings. 
So I with a somewhat inquisitive mind went to look at the Orders of the Day for that day, 1 June 1 972; and I put a line under item No. 10. 1 notice that the business paper went on to item No. 25.  Senator Murphy,  of course, had moved that all items after No. 10 be postponed until the next session which would have been the Budget session, because this was . in June when we were finishing the autumn session. I feel bound to say to  Senator McManus  that as I understand the division, the Democratic Labor Party supported the then Opposition, and the motion was carried. lt is a matter of different times, different situations. But the point is that on that occasion the then Opposition deferred until the next session something like 15 items on the notice paper. Certainly there were a lot of motions there to take note of papers. But there were in fact 5 Bills, on two of which  Senator Douglas  McClelland had taken the adjournment of the debate. However, there were 4 Government Bills including the Softwood Forestry Agreements Bill 1972, the Industrial Research and Development Grants Bill 1972 and the Salaries (Statutory Offices) Adjustment Bill- I am sure that we will all remember the last mentioned,  Senator Murphy,  because that Bill was very hurtful to some people. Then followed a whole series of other items. 
The point about it is that there is an element of need and justification for these proposed hours of sitting, because we are coming towards the end of the session, and ever since Federation there has always been an effort made to lengthen our sitting times to meet it. I go along with it. I have some reservations about the rearrangement of the sitting times. I am in favour of the concept of not sitting so late at night. I just want to repeat in conclusion that I believe that we are rather putting the cart before the horse in this matter. I would think that the whole set of proceedings of the Parliament in the contemporary world in which we live and in the situation of the last decade where the pressures of the 3-tier system of government in Australia are such that we have to start looking at the parliamentary sessions and start cutting out some of the things- they are of the Westminster concept, I know- that we always practice. I believe we must look at them. Consider divisions alone. If we had here a computerised or electronic division counting system, then if we were in a situation of a heated debate or a succession of divisions we could save 1.5 or 2 hours in any single day in terms of time that we spend on divisions. 
There are other matters that I could discuss. Honourable senators have heard me on them and I do not need to canvass them again. However, what I do believe and what I say to you,  Mr President,  and to the Leader of the Government in the Senate is that I think that one of our committees- whether it should be the Senate Standing Orders Committee, I do not knowshould be looking at whether we as Parliamentarians should not, because of the pressures of parliamentary life in this country, because we are in the big league, if you like and because ours is a country which has tremendous legislative and administrative problems to solve, be looking at our procedures to see if we cannot shorten some of them so that we can give our attention to the main responsibility and the main purpose of government rather than waste the time, which I believe we sometimes do, on these matters. 
I think it is right that I should make it clear that the Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the Opposition on these consequential amendments. The Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  has indicated that he will not ask that the Committee divide on them. That saves time, and we are very grateful to him. But I think it is only fair that we should make it clear where we stand and that the Opposition has the numbers. This amendment provides for representation on the Schools Commission. I take strong exception to a statement made at 7.45 a.m. today on the Australian Broadcasting Commission news to the effect that a major amendment to the Government's Schools Commission Bill made in the Senate extends the Commission's size from 12 to 15 and provides for representation from Roman Catholic and other independent schools. The amendment provided for representation from State education officers, from State school teachers, from State school parents and from a wide variety of people, only one of whom happened to represent Roman Catholic schools. When the Australian Broadcasting Commission made that statement this morning it was an example of either incompetence or bias. 
I desire to indicate support for the amendment. It appears to me to be only common sense that if there are to be a number of full time members of the Schools Commission one should be experienced in an important area of education. Otherwise the Commission might be handicapped by not having a full time member whose services would be available for advice and activity in that area. Therefore, because I think it would contribute to the efficiency of the Commission I support the amendment. 
I think that there is more clarity in the amendment moved by  Senator Rae.  lt commends itself to me because in my view it gives a clearer and more comprehensive statement of what should be done. The other reason that it commends itself to me is that I think that there is a point behind this matter. We suggest that the Commonwealth should give justice to students rather than to schools. The overwhelming majority of the Australian people support justice for independent schools but there is a small minority who do not and that minority has threatened action in the High Court to seek a ban on justice for independent schools. It has made it clear that it thinks that it has a much better chance of succeeding if the Bill provides for assistance to schools rather than for assistance to students. For the reason that the overwhelming majority of Australians regard it as an act of justice to assist Australian children, whatever school they may go to, I think that this amendment is more comprehensive and clearer. The Australian Democratic Labor Party will support it. 
Here we have really a conflict as to which form of words is better and is more in keeping with our aspirations to assist education in this country. The amendment which has been moved by  Senator Rae  is fuller in its content than the relevant sub-clause of the Bill. I believe it is clearer also. I think it does more to indicate the desire of Parliament to assist the cause of education in relation to these matters. I do not agree with the suggestion just made by  Senator James  McClelland when he said that there is a clear constitutional power for the Government to do the things it wants to do and that this legislation would break down that power.  Senator James  McClelland, of course, knows that legislation cannot break down the power of the Constitution. Legislation is governed by the Constitution, and if the Constitution says that the Commonwealth can do a certain thing legislation cannot prevent the Commonwealth from doing that. So I am not impressed by that argument. However, I do not want to delay the House. The Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  has indicated that he feels that the decision has to be made. I will simply say that it is just a conflict as to whether one form of words is superior to the other. I think the rather fuller form of words proposed by  Senator Rae  is more desirable. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I support the remarks of  Senator Rae.  I think that this particular amendment is one that is crucial to the whole Bill. We have been told by the Government that its outlook is one of seeking to improve the general quality of education throughout the community but in the Government's Bill we find that the children of this country are to be divided into 2 classes. The Government says that the primary obligation in relation to education is to provide and maintain government school systems that are of the highest standard and are open without fees or religious test to all children. I was educated in independent schools but I taught for 19.5 years in State government schools. I have never been able to recognise any distinction between the children of this country on the basis of what school they attend. I disagree with the Government's statement that there is a primary obligation to one section of our children. My attitude is that there is an obligation to all of the children of this country. 
The Government is under an obligation, in my view, to see that every child in this country receives a fair go. For that reason I prefer what  Senator Rae  supports which is, in effect, that we regard all the children of this country as having equal rights and we give each of them justice. I am a bit surprised. I understood that the Australian Labor Party had decided to adopt that principle at its Federal Conference some years ago. Some members of the Labor Party have assured me that they believe in equal justice for all our children and that the only difference is, perhaps, in the ways in which the justice shall be dispensed. I think that the Labor Party is going back to 1957- in the days when it did not agree with justice for independent schools- when it states in this clause, in effect, that it will divide the children of the country. Those who go to one school will have prior rights and the Government will have a primary obligation to look after them while those who go to other schools will come second and receive what is left over. I do not think that that is what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  campaigned for at the last general election. I attended a lot of meetings and I heard him say that he was for justice for all the children of this country. I think therefore that  Senator Rae  has done the right thing in moving this amendment and I think it shows the spirit that animates the people of this country today. The gallup polls show that the people believe that all the children should be given an equal chance. The results of elections show that people who have campaigned on the basis of this kind of division have received a contemptuous vote. 
They are the people who have tried to divide the children of this country into those who go to one type of school and those who attend another. 
My final point is that the United Nations Charter of Human Rights states, as  Senator Rae  has pointed out, that the parent has the right to decide the school his child will attend.  Senator Murphy  introduced a Bill this afternoon which provides that that Charter will be incorporated in the legislation of this country. How can a charter of that nature be incorporated in the legislation of this country when the Government has a provision in its education legislation which contradicts the Charter on Human Rights? My feeling is that the overwhelming majority of the Labor Party approves the decision of a few years ago that the Labor Party will stand for justice in education. I believe that the Labor Party has made a grave mistake in once again putting forward this proposition that some children in the community have prior rights to others. Let us give them all equal treatment. 
I feel that I should refer to one remark which was made by the Minister for the Media  (Senator Senator Douglas McClelland).  He said that he would not suggest I was trying to impart sectarianism into the debate, and I am glad that he said that. I point out that my statement was based on the fact that this clause says that the Schools Commission shall have regard to 'the primary obligation, in relation to education, for governments to provide and maintain government school systems'. I said that the primary obligation upon the Government should be to provide adequate education for all children in the community. There is certainly nothing sectarian in the suggestion that we treat the children as a whole and not divide them into 2 sections according to the school which they attend. 

 Senator Mulvihill spoke about the needs question. I do not think that his speech was entirely germane to the clause. I mention to him what happened at a meeting at Festival Hall in Melbourne at which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  attended. It was made clear that not every child who goes to a government school has parents who are poor or in need. This question was posed to  Mr Whitlam:  'Let us take the case of 2 parents, each receiving the same income and each equally well off'. In Melbourne there are government schools such as Melbourne Boys High School, University High School and MacRobertson Girls High School which are magnificently equipped and are staffed by the best teachers in the State. Any child who goes to those schools will get an education equal to anything which can be obtained in the top class independent schools. The questioner said to  Mr Whitlam:  'Two parents receive the same income. One sends his child to the top class government school, and one sends his child to the top class independent school. Why should the parent who sends his child to the top class independent school have to pay hugh fees, and the parent who is in the same wage bracket but who sends his child to the top class government school not have to pay fees?'  Mr Whitlam  's answer was illuminating. He said: 'I cannot answer that question'. 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade which relates to a matter of extremely great importance to the economy of this country. It concerns the much featured statement in today's Press by  Dr J.  F. Cairns, the Minister for Overseas Trade, that the Australian Industry Development Board will meet shortly and will be compelled to make considerable cuts in the activities of the Australian Industries Development Corporation. He attributes this to delay in dealing with the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and suggests that the Board believes that this delay is causing considerable difficulty in its operations. Now, it has been clearly understood that the Board in this matter was keeping silent and did not wish to be brought into the area of political and public controversy. As the Minister has now broken that understanding in regard to the Board will he now call upon it as an expert body, which contains many of Australia 's most respected businessmen, to state its view of the proposed expansion of the Corporation's activities? 
An Appropriation Bill is an appropriate Bill on which to raise a question of whether the Parliament has full control of government finances. Annual government expenditure is given parliamentary authorisation in several ways: Firstly, through Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) and Appropriation Bill (No. 2), and, secondly through special appropriations. Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) and Appropriation Bill (No. 2) cover the costs and expenses of maintaining the ordinary annual services of the Government and non-recurring types of expenditure. Special appropriations are really permanent appropriations, and Bills relating to these appropriations do not come before the Parliament annually but on an ad hoc basis. For example, the salaries of High Court justices have been established and adjusted by a Bill debated in both Houses. Such a Bill does not come before the Senate every year but only when an adjustment is being made. These special appropriations cover more than just the salaries of officials. Some cover the entire running costs of a statutory authority. But I make the point that they are not subject to detailed annual scrutiny by the Senate, although I know that a motion was carried some time ago asserting the right of the Senate to have control of these matters if it so wished. However, the point has been made and evidence has been presented to me that in fact the Senate gives detailed scrutiny to only 42 per cent to 44 per cent of annual government expenditure. 
In recent years the Senate has improved this scrutiny through the Estimates Committees. Despite the lengthy meetings of the Estimates Committees the point has to be made that we are dealing with only 42 per cent to 44 per cent of annual government expenditure and that 56 per cent to 58 per cent of total government expenditure is escaping any detailed scrutiny by the Senate. The only chance that honourable senators have of looking at the use made of these millions of dollars is to examine the annual reports of the authorities when they are presented to the Parliament and circulated to honourable senators. These annual reports are often more noteworthy for their glossy covers and expensive printing than the information they contain. These special appropriations also cover tied payments to the States, and for 1973-74 they amount to $792m. We authorise these payments but there is little or no scrutiny by us of how the money has been spent. I have a number of tables of figures relating to this contention as well as some explanatory notes. I would ask that they be incorporated in Hansard so that honourable senators can examine them and test whether they accept the contention on the information which is now put forward. I seek leave to incorporate those tables and explanatory notes in Hansard. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party will support the Student Assistance Bill. It has supported every progressive step in education which has ever been offered to the Senate. I want to make only 2 brief points. In recent years there has been a great deal of criticism from certain members of the student body- I emphasise the word 'certain' because the great majority have not been involved- who suggest that people of our generation are out of date in our ideas, that we are not progressive in our views and that we are a barrier against progress. I merely point out that in the days when I went to university 40 scholarships were given for the whole of Victoria. The generation which a certain group of people like to attack these days has brought about the situation where there are now scholarships and maintenance for practically every student who has a reasonable justification for going to a university. I suggest to these highly critical young students that they ought to be grateful to the people of our generation because we have provided them with advantages which were not available to us. Today they are on velvet because of what was done for them by the generation which some of them like so much to criticise. 
The other thing I wish to say is that I am always pleased to vote for these measures but I always have a feeling of disappointment that every time they come up I can see no indication of any move in our universities to ensure that every student who has these advantages placed at his disposal will really be worthy of them or will really profit from them. A lot of people, like  Sir Philip  Baxter, have pointed out the extraordinarily large number of students who fail to make the grade in the first year, the extraordinary number of students who do not seem to get anywhere. I have noticed that  Sir Philip  Baxter and others have said that surely it is necessary, if we are to see that money is properly spent, to initiate some system by which we can be reasonably sure that the student who goes to a university and who will be provided for in these ways really ought to be going to university and not seeking his education in some other direction. No attempt has been made by universities to solve the problem of a proper system of examining prospective students to ensure that they are in the right place. Why have we not some system whereby we can determine within reasonable limits whether a student should go to a university, a college of advanced education or into some form of vocational training? Very little is being done in this direction. 
We still have the situation where thousands of students in this country go to universities not because they particularly want to go there, not because they are particularly well equipped and not because they know what they are going to do while they are there. They go to a university because the daughter of so and so and the son of so and so down the street go to a university. The parents would be downgraded in the eyes of the neighbours if their son or daughter did not go to a university, too. People more qualified than myself who have been highly placed officers of our universities, have repeatedly said that the big problem these days is determining whether a particular student ought to go to a university. In my view nothing significant is being done to solve that problem. I always have a feeling of uneasiness when I vote for these Bills. I think to myself: 'Will we get value?' There is considerable doubt whether a number of these students will be particularly happy at a university and whether we will get value out of their going to university. I hope that something can be done to get a proper system of evaluating prospective entrants to each university. Until we do so we will spend thousands and thousands of dollars and on the testimony of people who are leading officers in our universities a lot of this money will just be wasted. 
The Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland),  in his reply, said that he would not comment on the points which I had raised about the qualifications of students who go to universities. With all respect, it is a matter on which a Minister ought to comment. Last year I wrote to the then Minister for Education,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser. I received a reply dated 1 December, so it must have been one of the final letters which he wrote. I shall read out the figures which he gave me. I wrote to him and asked: 
What was the number of students admitted to each Australian university in the last year for which information is available? 
What was the number of students who left without taking the first year examinations? 
How many students failed the first year examinations? 
Some universities coyly said that the figures were not available. The figures for those which were prepared to give them are: The University of New South Wales admitted 4,044 students; 268 left before the first year examinations and 1,029 failed. Out of the 4,044 students who were admitted, approximately 1,300 did not get to first base. The percentage would be between 25 and 30. At the New England University 1,264 were admitted, and 324 did not get to first base. At Newcastle University 1,062 were admitted, and about 440 did not get to first base. At Macquarie University 1,370 were admitted, and over 400 did not pass the first year examinations. 
At Monash University 2,876 were admitted, and about 530 did not get past first year. La Trobe University said that figures were not available. It would be intersting to have those figures because of the amount of time that students from that university spent on demonstrations, which would not have assisted them in their efforts to pass. 
The figures for Queensland University are amazing. Of the 3,827 who were admitted, 1,141, or about 30 per cent, did not pass first year. At James Cook University 608 were admitted, and 240 did not pass first year. At Flinders University 773 were admitted, and about 220 did not pass first year. At the University of Western Australia 1,920 were admitted, and about 600, or 3 1.7 per cent, I am informed, did not get past first year. At the University of Tasmania 636 were admitted. It had a pretty good record. Only 6 1 did not get past first year. At the Australian National University, where students ought to do particularly well because they are in small groups and because the university has unlimited finance and chosen professors, 1,205 were admitted, and 347 did not pass first year. 
-I think that the percentages range from 20 per cent in the universities which had the best figures to 30 per cent or more than 30 per cent in the universities which had the bad figures. 
No. Obviously some students would do better the next year. The figures are such that I think they call for action by the Government. After all, education is a very costly business. We are all in favour of spending the maximum amount on education. How can any government justify sending students to universities and giving them tremendous subventions if, when they get to the universities, between 20 per cent and 30 per cent obviously should not have gone there? The conclusion is obvious. The Government ought to have a system of examining students who wish to go to universities to see whether they should go there or whether they should go to a trade school, a vocational school or somewhere else. Or is something wrong with the quality of teaching in our universities? I would agree that there is. Because a person has a Ph.D. degree this does not necessarily mean that he will be a good teacher or a good lecturer. Some of the most highly qualified men whom I came under at universities- men with degrees from Oxford, Cambridge and Harvardwere the most appalling lecturers I have ever met. They had no ability to impart knowledge. 
So I repeat to the Minister, who has said that he will not comment on what I put forward, that I think it is the duty of the Government to comment. Are we sending to universities people who ought not to be there? Why do we not have some method of testing them to see whether they will do well there or whether it is the right place? What is wrong with our universities that they cannot produce better results? I was a teacher. In my time if a teacher sent children for examinations and 30 per cent of them failed, the next year the inspector would want to know why. I repeat that in my view these figures are appalling. If money is to be spent at the rate that it is to be spent- I do not mind its being spent if it is usefully spent- how  Gan  this Government, which has  Dr Coombs  examining ways and means of saving the nation's money, justify doing nothing about this huge expenditure? Finally, I ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard the figures to which I have referred. 
My remarks will be very brief indeed. I merely wish to indicate on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party that it is a federalist Party. We prefer that title to 'States righters'. We are federalists. We stated our position in regard to this type of legislation earlier this year. We have seen no reason to depart from the stand which we took on that occasion. We were most impressed by the fact that 6 State Premiers, not only conservative Premiers but also Labor Premiers, went to London and fought hard for what they considered were the rights of the States. For that reason we will vote against the second reading of the Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Have complaints been received by the Postmaster-General's Department that difficulty has been experienced by persons in having $20 notes cashed in official post offices in Victoria. If so, what is the reason and will action be taken to remedy the position. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party joins with other Parties in this motion commemorating the service of John Dedman to his country and expressing our sympahty to his relatives. I knew John Dedman very well. I remember when he was first elected. He had a distinguished career over some 9 years in the Federal Parliament. I have always believed that his career would have been longer had he not sacrificed himself by undertaking most onerous tasks as a Minister, tasks which to a degree caused some unpopularity and also prevented him from giving that attention to the seat of Corio which would have enabled him to retain it. As I said, he was prepared to sacrifice himself in the interests of the country and of his Party. 
I was associated with John Dedman on the Executive of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party and I had also something to do with his later electoral campaigns. He was a very honourable man as he showed in one action. At the time of the unfortunate division in the Victorian Labor Party an allegation was made against me and others that the full weight of the Party's support had not been put behind John Dedman in Corio. I remember to his credit that he made a special trip to Melbourne to see me and said that he was prepared to issue a public statement that the campaign over which we had been criticised was in fact the best campaign that had ever been run for him and that he believed that at no time had a candidate been given more assistance than on that occasion. I think that action of John Dedman shows what an honourable man he was. 
After the division in the Party he disagreed politically with me and others but the difference was a political one, not a personal one. When we met he was always friendly. We spoke often of old times and it was one of my pleasures to vote for him on every occasion when he stood for the Council of the Australian National University and I was always delighted when he achieved election on those occasions. I have very happy memories of John Dedman and I join with all the others who have expressed sympathy with the relatives of a man who was a great servant of his country. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister and it concerns matters related to the arts. Will the Minister refer to the Prime Minister the very serious allegations made in the Melbourne 'Herald' of last Saturday, 24 November, first of all by  Mr Clifton  Pugh, a well known artist who is a member of the Australian Council for the Arts but who declares that he is appalled at what is going on and who says that there is waste, inefficiency and lack of control in the Council? He is supported in the same newspaper in a statement made by  Mr Harry  Bluck, a well known artist, who says that in his view excessive appointments of staff are being made to the Arts Council and who considers also that there is lack of control. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy, relates to the pessimistic statement which was made last week by the Minister for Minerals and Energy about the possible limitation of our sources of energy supplies within, I think, 8 years. An eminent Australian scientist, when referring to this matter, stated this week that Australia was the most suitable country in the world for the development of solar energy because Australia has large desert and unpopulated areas which would be most suitable for this purpose. I ask: Is Australia doing anything to develop this type of energy? If so, what? 
For nearly 20 years of my career I was a teacher of Latin. I was very impressed with one line by the Roman poet Virgil which goes: 'Timeo danaos et dona ferentes'- 'I fear the Greeks when they come bearing gifts'. When I listened to my friend  Senator Wheeldon  upholding the right of the Australian Democratic Labor Party not to be criticised and when I tried to recall to mind 95 per cent of the speeches which  Senator Wheeldon  makes in which he trenchantly criticises the DLP, I wondered, when he was defending the DLP, what was the catch. I have not been able to work it out. I want to refer to only 2 of the considerations which he brought forward and which he said indicated that it was untrue to suggest that his Party was seeking in an undesirable way to concentrate power in Canberra. 
I listened to his eloquent defence of the Australian Council for the Arts. I appreciate the wonderful effort which the Australian Labor Party made before the last election to conciliate people interested in the arts. The effort was so successful that when  Mr Whitlam  held a meeting he had footballers, cricketers, tennis players, dancers and actors attending the meetings. As a matter of fact, I was told that they would have had Piping Lane, the winner of the Melbourne Cup, on stage except that he was not old enough to vote. I only want to say this: As active and energetic as people associated with the arts were in the interests of electing a Labor government, they are just as active and energetic today in telling people that they have been betrayed by the Labor Government and that the organisation that has been set up is the type of organisation that  Senator Wheeldon  denied it would be. It is an organisation in which bureaucrats in Canberra offices are denying to the people associated with the arts those things which the Labor Government said it would do for them. I quoted only the other day, people from  Sir Robert  Helpman to Clifton Pugh, a member of the Arts Council itself, who have said that the Arts Council today is an organisation which operates in the interest of a bureaucratic few, an organisation in which there is uncontrolled waste and misuse of government facilities. I would excuse  Senator Wheeldon  because possibly he is not aware of these facts. If anyone here doubts that the Council for the Arts is not an example of the misuse of power, as exercised by bureaucrats, and of the right to direct money intended for the arts to their own personal aggrandisement, they should go and ask the top people associated with the arts in Australia today. 
Everyone knows who runs the arts today. Most people would have said that the arts should have been associated with the Media portfolio. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has taken it to himself. The instruction is that any proposal, any correspondence and anything of a vital nature affecting the arts should not go to a Minister but to  Dr Coombs,  who appears to be making as big a success of his supervision over the Council for the Arts as he is making of his supervision over Aboriginal affairs. I recall from my reading of history that in 1780 the British Parliament carried a motion which said that 'the power of the Crown has increased, is increasing and ought to be diminished '. I believe that the motion before us today could well have been worded to state that the power of the Cabinet, the Executive, and the bureaucracy has increased, is increasing and ought to be diminished. If it were so worded, I believe that I would get a sympathetic reaction from some members of the Australian Labor Party who have taken recently in their own Caucus the type of action that I would have expected Labor parliamentarians to take against what they obviously believe is misuse of power by the Cabinet and the bureaucracy in this city. 
I believe that the centralised power of the Government is being increased and extended. I believe that today it is more necessary than ever that Parliament should take action to exert its power and deny this excessive increase of power by the Cabinet and the bureaucracy. I agree with  Senator Durack  that this increase in power probably began when the Government took office. For a period of time Australia was governed by 2 men. 

 - Senator Devitt says that the country was governed very well. I would like to take a referendum in his Party as to whether Labor Party members agree that 2 men should have constituted the Government. I would like to look over the shoulders of some men who are now Ministers. I would like to look over the shoulders of the 5 Ministers who are in this place, including the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy),  and get their impression as to whether 2 men should have governed Australia. I asked one Labor man why the Prime Minister had chosen a Cabinet of two. He explained the reason to me. He said that  Mr Whitlam  wanted a Cabinet of all the members of his Party whom he trusted. (Government senators interjecting)- 
If this uproar continues,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I will have to ask  Senator Wheeldon  to defend me again. Immediately these 2 men took over as the Government of this country we had the remarkable situation that there was a spate of government by executive act and by regulation. All kinds of things were done by executive act and regulation. The Parliament was bypassed and was not consulted. There was an obvious intention that power should be taken out of the hands of the Parliament and innumerable things were done on which Parliament was not allowed to adjudicate. We have since had a flood of legislation through which there is one consistent thread. Trotsky raised the cry years ago: 'All power to the Soviets'. The present Government is raising the cry: 'All power to Cabinet'. What we have today is a definite and deliberate decision by the Australian Labor Party to arrogate to Canberra and the bureaucrats, mainly through the exercise of the power of the purse, all power over housing, all power over education, all power over health, all power over minerals, all power over conservation, all power over finance, all power over the control of off-shore minerals, all power over the control of Aborigines and all power over the control of arts and a host of other things. 
This attempt by Canberra to arrogate to itself all power reached such an appalling stage that we had the most unusual spectacle of 6 State Premiers- the Premiers of every State in the Commonwealth of whom half were Labor premiers- going to London for the purpose of protesting against what they regarded as being unconstitutional and wrongful attempts by the Commonwealth Government to take power to itself. Why did  Mr Dunstan  protest in London, why did  Mr Eric  Reece protest in London and why did  Mr Tonkin  protest in London if this Commonwealth is not arrogating to itself power which it should not have? We have had the spectacle of  Mr Eric  Reece protesting at the interference by the Commonwealth in the matter of Lake Pedder. This is only one instance of the fact that while the Prime Minister as the Foreign Minister interfered in the affairs of almost every country in the world, as Prime Minister he interferes in the affairs of every State in the Commonwealth. 
We have found as Federal parliamentarians that the amount of work, the amount of legislation, that we are called upon to cover is almost impossible to deal with. Yet, at the very time when the Government places before this Parliament an amount of legislation which is almost impossible to deal with it is greedily grabbing in all directions for other matters over which it intends to take control. I believe that one reason for the failure of the present Government to take advantage of the opportunity which we have given it for a double dissolution is this: The Government knows that the Australian people are appalled at the power hungry character of the Government in Canberra and it is not game to go to the people to get their verdict. What is happening in the field of education is a prime example of this. Before the last election the Prime Minister spoke at a meeting in the Melbourne Festival Hall at which I was present. He received an ovation because he said that no school would have any aid at present being given to it taken from it. The present Minister for Education,  Mr Kim  Beazley, went to every State and repeated the Prime Minister 's words. 
We have indicated our intention to support a proposal that the Prime Minister's promise be kept by his Government. That is all we have said. We have said that we will help the Prime Minister; we will vote so that his promise and the promise of  Mr Beazley  can be kept. What do we find? The Postmaster-General in another place  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who is Acting Minister for Education, says that this is deliberate obstruction, and that if the DLP tries to help the Prime Minister and  Mr Beazley  to keep their promise, the Government will refuse to give $600m to the schools. He says that the Government will call a double dissolution if the DLP tries to get the Prime Minister and  Mr Beazley  to keep their promise. I do not know that I have ever heard of a government more bankrupt of principle than a government which says that if people try to get its leaders to keep a promise, it will deprive the children of Australia of $600m in educational aid. If that is not an example of an exercise of power in an arrogant way - 
The  ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator Marriott)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
This is a Bill which in effect recasts the whole system of tariff protection in this country. It is a very vital Bill in many respects. It recasts the whole system of tariff protection. It establishes what, in the view of the DLP, will be an immense bureaucracy in control of tariff protection. It means that the power which Parliament has had in this field to a big degree is to be placed in the hands of the bureaucrats. For that reason I am surprised that the Liberal Party has declared its intention to vote for the second reading of this Bill. While it proposes to move some amendments at the Committee stage, those amendments appear to me to be not of a vital character affecting the Bill, and the Bill appears likely to be passed. I regret it, and the DLP regrets it. We feel that the provisions in this Bill establishing a large and immense power of bureaucracy are dangerous. We believe that when this Bill has been in operation for a period of about 2 years, the members of the Liberal Party will be saying: 'We did not know it was loaded '. However, the die is cast. 
I will be here,  Senator Gair  will be here and I believe that  Senator Little  will be here, and that is something that the honourable senator cannot do anything about. I always remember when the split in the Australian Labor Party occurred in 1956, a leading member of the Labor Party saying to former  Senator George  Cole: 'You will not be here very long'. Three years later former  Senator Cole  was still here and that leading member of the Labor Party was out. So, the honourable senator is very unwise to be a political prophet. 
I say, therefore, that the die is cast; this Bill will be carried. I regret it. I believe that we have reached the stage in this country when the stranglehold of the Executive through Cabinet and the stranglehold of the bureaucracy as permitted by Cabinet constitute a grave danger to the democratic future of this country. 
So, I merely say that the DLP will vote with the Country Party against the second reading of this Bill. We believe that it is not in the interests of Australia or of Australian industry. We believe, as I said before, that in a year or two the Liberals will be saying: 'We did not know it was loaded'. The DLP will vote with the Country Party and we will not accept responsibility for the dangers contained in this Bill. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Why are lactones, imported from Japan and used to intensify the flavour of table margarine, not permissible for use in cooking oils. 
Will the Minister order an inquiry to ascertain whether lactones should be used in cooking oils. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party made decisions in regard to the Bills to which the motion now before us relates. Those decisions put the passage of the Bills very much in doubt and in our view make a debate on this motion rather perfunctory or unnecessary. We will not oppose the motion, but we do not think it will operate. 
-My question, which is directed to the Attorney-General, concerns a rather extraordinary statement which appeared in the Melbourne Press during the weekend. A young lady stated that she was the secretary of an Australian Labor Party member of the House of Representatives and that she was one of two previously unqualified persons who had been appointed by the Attorney-General to conduct marriages in future. The young lady further said that she understood that she had been appointed to conduct marriages as a representative of the Labor Party. Will the Attorney-General inform us whether there have been appointments of this nature? If so, on what basis are they made? Does he intend to appoint persons to conduct marriages as representatives of the Liberal Party of Australia, the Australian Country Party and the Australian Demoratic Labor Party? 
-And the Independents? 
-This Bill has as its objective the coordination of elections for the Senate and the House of Representatives. It is a most important Bill because it could affect, firstly, the independence of the Senate and, secondly, its existence as a House of review. I point out that it is possible for the Government to co-ordinate the election of both houses without a referendum and without constitutional change. What more ideal moment could there be than the present moment when the Government states that it is being obstructed by the Senate, when the Government has announced that if the Senate attempts to make the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  carry out his promise to preserve basic grants for all schools the Government will deprive the children of Australia of hundreds of thousands of dollars of educational aid and when the Government says that it believes that this issue is so vital that it wants to hold an election? What more ideal moment than the present to co-ordinate the election of the 2 Houses by a double dissolution and an election within the next two or three weeks? I cannot understand the silence from the Government benches. This is the Government's ideal opportunity. It is not prepared to take the opportunity. Instead it proposes to spend hundreds and thousands of dollars on an election and on a referendum when there is no real need for it. There could have been an election if we had defeated the Appropriation Bill only last week. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party will vote against these Bills. We realise that they can only be delayed and that we cannot prevent the referendum from being held. But we believe it is worth while to vote against the Bills at the present time to highlight our opposition to what is an obvious attempt to gerrymander elections. I was interested some years ago to read a paper upon this very point in the 'Australian Quarterly Review' of March 1969. This article was written, I believe, by a member of the Australian Labor Party who was particularly interested in the subject of elections. In the course of the article he pointed out that any proposal such as this, which allegedly will make electorates of equal size and so bring about equality in voting, cannot fail to do the opposite. He could not see in it any great reform and he pointed out that the objection always to anything of this nature comes from the fact that it can lock up large minorities in certain seats and in effect give those minorities no say in the government. 
What, for example is the worth of a Labor vote in Kooyong? The people of Kooyong who vote Labor have no representation. Contrarily, what is the worth of a Liberal vote in Gellibrand? Under this system of equal electorates the Liberals in Gellibrand have no representation. In a number of seats the Australian Democratic Labor Party has quite sizable minorities but it does not get one member in the House of Representatives. On occasion we have obtained in elections 500,000 votes. But we do not get any representation in the House of Representatives. Is there any provision in this Bill, by a Government which says that it wants electoral justice, to give the DLP with 500,000 votes any representation? There is none at all. 
Let me say categorically that the purpose of this Bill is not electoral justice. The Government is not interested in electoral justice. This is one more attempt to get control of the electorate in order to perpetuate Labor government. This issue was raised prior to the last election. The DLP in the course of its advertising predicted that the Labor Party if elected would do just this. At the time no attempt was made by the media or most of the Press commentators to deal with the question of electoral justice. They did not deal with the DLP's argument that the Labor Party would do this. They said that it was unthinkable that a Labor Government would attempt to do this type of thing and therefore they did not give our arguments any consideration. There were people in the Labor Party who became very eloquent and said that the advertising of the DLP was unacceptable, that it was wrong that that kind of advertising could be used. At that time  Mr Hugh  Cudlipp, who is a leading personality in the British Press, was in Australia. Some members of the Labor Party went to him in the hope that he would issue a statement attacking the DLP's advertising. But he laughed at them and said that the sort of political advertising that he had seen in the Australian election was cream puff advertising. He said: 'I would be sorry to see British elections conducted on these lines. I prefer a bit of fight '. 
However, that did not prevent a number of representatives of the Press, many of whom now occupy lucrative positions to which they have been appointed by the Labor Government, coming out and expressing horror that the DLP could suggest that people like  Mr Whitlam  or Freddie Daly would seek to gerrymander electorates to perpetuate themselves in office. All I will say about these people is that they knew perfectly well from their association with Parliament that the average attitude of political parties is not 'Is this electoral justice? ' but 'Who is going to win? '. That is the attitude in this Bill.  Mr Daly  has sat down and has tried to work out a system under which his Party will win and be perpetuated. He is putting it up here in a Bill seeking a referendum in the hope that he will pull the wool over the eyes of the people. The situation is that we are to have, say, 100,000 people in each electorate. Has there ever been a greater joke than that? Suppose that we had 100,000 people in each electorate. Honourable senators opposite know very well that in the inner areas of the big cities, particularly areas in which there are a large number of migrants- and the migrants have big families-out of 100,000 people 40,000 to 45,000 might be adults and 55,000 to 60,000 might be children. In other electorates where old retired people live the proportion of children is much smaller. 
So the position is that under the arrangement put forward by the Labor Party we would have certain electorates in which there would be inevitably far more adults who are entitled to vote than in other areas. Members of the Australian Labor Party have sat down with their experienced men in electioneering and worked out that such a proposition would suit the Labor Party down to the ground because such an arrangement would favour them. The Government has now introduced this proposal which it says would give one vote one value. If the Labor Party believed in the principle of one vote one value it would introduce this principle in its own Party. In the proceedings which resulted in my leaving the Labor Party there was a vote in which the three small States and one delegate from a small State voted against us. The 2 States where all the population is- Victoria and New South Walesand one of Queensland voted for us. But in the event the Federal Executive decided against us because there was no representation on a population basis. The representatives of the two bigger States and one of Queensland were defeated by 7 votes which came from the smaller States. 
What has the Labor Party done about representation in the Senate to bring in the principle of one vote one value? I was defeated in the Senate elections of 1961 for 3 years. At that time I scored 2 10,000 votes. There were 10 senators in the Senate from Tasmania at that time who together represented 1 80,000 voters. I did not get a seat although I got 2 10,000 votes. But 10 senators with an average of 18,000 votes each got in for Tasmania. What was the attitude of the Labor Party? I said to  Senator O  'Byrne, who is a Tasmanian senator: 'Do you agree,  Senator O  'Byrne, with a situation whereby 10 senators from Tasmania representing 180,000 voters were elected and I did not get a seat although I got 30,000 more votes than the 10 of them'. He said: 'Of course I do'. But  Senator O  'Byrne will vote for this Bill on the ground that he favours one vote one value. 
There is not one vote one value on the Federal Executive or the Conference of the Australian Labor Party; the States get equal representation. But why does not the Labor Party follow the principle of one vote one value in its own Party parliament? There is not one vote one value at the Australian Council of Trade Union conferences. The unions would not have it. At the Australian Council of Trade Union conferences small unions get representation out of all proportion to the big unions. One did not get one vote one value- this has been changed recently- on the Trades Hall Council in Melbourne. A big union of 70,000 to 80,000 members would get 4 votes and a union made up of 53 members would get one vote. Members of the Australian Labor Party do not believe in the principle of one vote one value, otherwise they would introduce it into the affairs of their own Party. That is why I say that this proposition is just one more example of the attempt to fix the ballot box, to fix the ballot paper, in the interests of maintaining the Australian Labor Party in office. 
If members of the Australian Labor Party really believed in the principle of one vote one value they would advocate the system of election which gives the nearest approximation to the principle of one vote one value, that is, the HareClark system. In saying that I am supported by the opinion of some distinguished people inside the Australian Labor Party. In a recent address to the Proportional Representation Society in South Australia,  Mr Clyde  Cameron said that in his opinion the only system of election which could be calculated to give electoral justice to all parties was the Hare-Clark proportional representation system. I endeavoured to produce in this chamber a report which the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party commissioned about S years ago on this subject. A committee of the Victorian branch of the Australian Labor Party, led by the late  Senator Sam  Cohen,  Mr Gordon  Bryant and other leading personalities of the branch, was asked to sit down and determine the system which in its opinion would give electoral justice and would ensure that if the Australian Labor Party ever received 50 per cent of the votes it would be in government. The committee sat down and produced an excellent report which indicated that the fairest system of election and the system which gave the nearest thing to electoral justice was the Hare-Clark proportional representation system. When I attempted to have that report incorporated in Hansard we had the amazing situation of one supporter of the Government,  Senator Mulvihill,  refusing me leave to do so. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I point out that the British Government and the New Zealand Labor Government last year gave a Christmas bonus to all pensioners. The present Prime Minister did not give such a bonus last year on the ground that the Government was newly elected and time was too short. I therefore ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister: Will the Government give this year a Christmas bonus to all pensioners? 
The mantle of a parliamentary purist sits rather oddly on the shoulders of  Senator Turnbull.  I am sorry that he spoke about nauseating hypocrisy on the part of my Party. There has never been any hyprocrisy about  Senator Turnbull!  I remember on one occasion in the Senate, when a member of the previous Government appealed to the consciences of honourable senators,  Senator Turnbull  said: 'That makes no difference to me; I have not got a conscience', and all honourable senators present said: 'Hear, hear! ' I am not upset by the statements of  Senator Turnbull,  who makes a hit and run visit to the Senate every now and again. He says something which he hopes will be sensational enough to reach the Press in order to give the impression that he is a regular attender of the Senate. But I do not accept  Senator Turnbull  as a judge of morality. He has told us today that he is a judge of morality, for he has implied that he can determine what is hypocrisy and what is not hypocrisy. 

 Senator McManus, having replied to that statement by  Senator Turnbull,  to direct bis attention to the motion. 
Thank you,  Mr Temporary Chairman.  I can only say that, if  Senator O  'Byrne's feelings are so strong, why did he not interject or take a point of order when  Senator Turnbull  was speaking? There is one obvious reason:  His  sensibilities are touched only when they are appealed to in a certain direction. I will now leave that matter. I merely say to  Senator Turnbull  that I am sorry that he raised the matter of religion; I believe that when he thinks the matter over afterwards he will be sorry, too. One thing I can say about the debates on this issue is that I have not heard the matter of religion raised, and I think that it has been a jolly good thing that it has not been raised. I am sorry that  Senator Turnbull  has been the first to inject into this debate something that ought not to be there. 
Regarding the matter of schools, about which there has been much discussion, I point out that the schools for which the DLP is fighting to obtain basic grants are practically all Protestant and Jewish schools. That gives the lie direct to any suggestion that we have been motivated by religion. Regarding this motion, I merely want to say that we will persist with the amendments that we have moved. An issue has been raised by 30 or 40 Press representatives of the Government that if we persist in opposing the kind of Commission that the Government wants we will stop the children of Australia from getting $S00m worth of aid. Such an issue has not been raised at all: The issue has concerned the sort of commission that should be set up. I have been told by 2 Ministers and quite a number of Australian Labor Party parliamentarians that, if the Opposition 's proposal that each group should nominate its own representative is persisted with, all the Government has to do is use its power, without legislation, to nominate another Karmeltype committee, and all the money can be given without any trouble. 
Strangely, the Government says that if it appoints all the members of the Commission it will be an independent Commission but that if the members are appointed by their own organisations the Commission will not be independent. I do not understand how any commission, all of whose members are appointed by the Government and all of whom depend on the Government for retaining their job, can be an independent commission. I have just spoken to a representative of the New South Wales Teachers Federation. I told him that I thought the advertisement he published yesterday was very hard on his own people. When he asked me why I thought that, I said: 'You make a statement to the effect that, if you nominate your own people, they will be pettifogging, quarrelsome people, but that if the Government nominates them they will be all right'. He said: 'If they are appointed by the organisation, they will be pettifogging, quarrelsome people who cannot do a decent job'. I said: 'You know your own members best, but surely the Teachers Federation could be relied on to appoint a representative who is not quarrelsome and pettifogging, and this applies in le same way to the state school parents'. I told him that I was surprised that the New South Wales Teachers Federation thought that these people were not fit to appoint their own representatives. 
All we say to the Government is that we believe that the organisations are quite capable of appointing their own representatives. In regard to the commission on education for the Australian Capital Territory, the Minister and the Government have provided that the organisations can nominate their own representatives. All we say is: 'All right, if you do not agree with us you have the power without any legislation to appoint a Karmel-type commission and it can go and do the whole job'. What is wrong with that? The Government is saying: 'We know we can appoint the commission we want, but we are going to force you to agree to a commission that you do not want'. I do not see any commonsense or justice in a proposal that we shall be forced to vote for a commission with which we disagree when at the very time the Government has the power in its hands to do the whole thing itself. As the Melbourne 'Age' said, this row over the Commission is a colossal bluff. 

 -If Senator McLaren lived in Victoria he would never accuse the 'Age ' of being a supporter of the DLP.  Senator Poyser  knows this as do other honourable senators from Victoria. I have never seen such trenchant attacking leading articles about a political party anywhere in Australia as in the 'Age' on the DLP.  Senator McLaren  knows nothing about Victorian affairs. 
-Look, I think you should stick to feathers and not politics. 
I hope that you made a better success of feathers than you have made of politics. The Government has it in its own hands to appoint the Commission. But what has happened? We all know that the brains trust- the Mick Young-Eric Walsh axis and the other boys-has got together and said: 'This is our chance to get some electoral profit'. The 35 pressmen have been put on the job and the story is being put around: 'Look at the Opposition holding up this Commission'. In short, they are saying that the Opposition is going to stop the kids from getting $500m. But the kids were never in any danger of losing a cent out of it. All that has happened is that this Government has decided to play political football with the welfare of the children in the schools of this country. 
I conclude my speech by saying that if  Senator Turnbull  believes in attacking hypocrisy, let him attack the hypocrisy of what the Government has been doing in the last couple of weeks on this issue. The Government has it in its own hands without legislation tomorrow to appoint the Commission that it wants and it will not appoint it because there is a little bit of political propaganda and political trickery about and it thinks that it might make something out of it. 
The issue has been very clearly laid down in this debate. It is the credibility of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam)  and the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley).  The previous  speaker, Senator Devitt,  has denied that the Prime Minister ever promised that the per capita payments being made last year or this year- 1973- would be continued. He said very definitely that the Prime Minister gave no such undertaking. I am a witness. I was on the platform at a meeting in the Festival Hall in West Melbourne attended by thousands of people at which the Prime Minister made the categorical statement: 'All aid being given at the present time will be continued. No aid being given at the present time will be withdrawn'. 
That is good enough for me.  Senator Webster  was on the platform and he is an additional witness that the Prime Minister made the promise. 
-Senator Hannan was there also. The Prime Minister has never denied that he said it. The Prime Minister could not deny that he said it because if he ever denies that he made a promise to continue the existing basic per capita payments I am prepared to hold a Watergate afternoon in the Senate when I will play a tape recording, which has not been interfered with, of the Prime Minister's own words. I would challenge any member of his Party, having heard that tape recording, to continue to deny that the Prime Minister made that promise. 
But even if he did not, surely the Minister for Education is involved. We have heard  Senator Rae  quoting the exact words which were not only said by the Minister but also were printed and distributed in a number of private schools before the election. In that statement the Minister for Education called upon the schools to disregard the whispering campaign to the effect that the Government would not continue the aid.  Mr Beazley,  within 5 weeks of the election, as the prospective Minister for Education, said that the Labor Government would continue the basic per capita payments to all schools as at present. I do not want to continue to worry the subject.  Senator Rae  has quoted innumerable instances of the promise being made. What I want to say is this: Apparently the Prime Minister wishes to break his promise. I do not accuse  Mr Beazley  of breaking his promise. I have a high regard for him and I believe that he wanted to keep it but he was overruled. But in the case of the Prime Minister, I say that he made a promise. What we have asked the Prime Minister to do is to keep his word. 
There has been a smokescreen of unscrupulous misrepresentation drawn over this whole issue. All that the Opposition has asked for as far as I am aware, is that the Prime Minister should keep his promise which would involve the expenditure of $3m, $4m or $5m. We are considering a Bill that will give almost $500,000,000 to a wide variety of schools, particularly the poor ones. Handouts from Government sources have stated that the Opposition is proposing to give immense sums of money to wealthy schools and to take money away from the other schools, the needy ones. We never suggested anything of the sort. My Party has been prepared to vote and will vote to give every cent proposed to be given by the Government to the schools to which it says it will give the money. All we ask is that the Government add on $4m or $5m in order that it can then be said that the Prime Minister has kept his word. 
People say that the Government's proposed action is necessary because it must look after the poor rather than the rich, but this Government has just decided to pay the fees of all university students. If the Government believes in the needs angle, why would it not refuse to pay the fees of university students whose parents are wealthy, and why would it not give the money to needy students? It does not believe in that angle. Every student will have his fees paid, irrespective of whether his father is a millionaire or a wharf labourer. Moreover, the Government is wiping out the means test for pensions. We have seen newspaper reports about people who are supposed to be wealthy- I am sure some of them are not wealthy- and who have applied for the pension. Yet the Government says: 'We will not prevent wealthy people from getting the pension and giving that money to the needy'. It says that all people who are eligible, whether or not they are wealthy, will qualify for the pension. What happens with regard to child endowment? Does the Government ask mothers and fathers how much money they have? Of course it does not. Child endowment is paid to all those eligible to receive it, without the application of any means test. I sense something queer or sinister in the fact that the Government intends to apply a means test in the case of independent schools. The story is that all these schools are wealthy. It is an outrageous lie that all the schools that are wealthy are in category A. 
The fifty.  Senator Rae  has referred to a number of schools which are in difficulties and which will get nothing. I refer to the case of the Rabinovitch Yeshivah College at 30-36 Flood Street, Bondi, New South Wales. This is a small Jewish school that caters for the children of orthodox members of the Jewish faith. It is situated in four 50-year-old cottagesthere are no magnificent buildings here- and in the basement of a synagogue in Bondi. The school has 119 pupils in the primary section and 12 pupils in the secondary section. Of these pupils, 85 per cent come from lower-income families and are able to attend the school only because of bursaries provided by members of the Jewish community. 
The honourable senator will hear about it. Of the remaining 15 per cent, most pay only part fees and a very small number can afford full fees. There is an average of 7.5 teachers in the primary school and 3 teachers in the secondary school. The teachers all accept low salaries because of a dedicated spirit and in order to keep the school going. The school will finish this year with a $40,000 deficit, although it has tried to keep going by getting donations from Jewish people. Under the Government's plan, all aid is expected to be withdrawn from this school. 
No-one can find out. The school appealed against its classification in category A, but without success. It then asked the Minister, or officials of the Commonwealth Government, at least to visit the school and see its difficulties at first hand, but this approach met with no success. The Department simply wrote a sympathetic letter to say that the decision was final and was not based on religious or other criteria. The Headmaster,  Mr Breakspear,  says: The only reason that I can give for the Government's refusing us aid is that it imagines that every Jewish child has millionaire parents'. That is only one case. That school appealed and the appeal was refused.  Senator Rae  referred to other similar cases where applications have been refused. However, according to the Government's propagandists, who seem to have had such a wonderful run, all these schools are wealthy, and every child comes to school in a Rolls Royce. That is the nonsense which has been manufactured by the Government to provide what it believes will be a good election issue. 
I repeat that the Opposition is being attacked on the grounds that we want to take away nearly $500m from the schools to which it has been allocated and give to the wealthy. We have not advocated the taking of one cent; we will vote for every cent to be given to those schools. All we have said is that when the Prime Minister and the Minister for Education promise people before an election that they will continue to give at least basic aid to all schools, they should keep their promise. On the needs issue, we say to the Government: Give those schools that aid. When the Government has given that basic aid, all the money that it provides for education in future can be provided on the needs basis. That would be our policy, and before the election it was the policy of the Whitlam Labor Party which made it its policy at that election. I, myself, heard the Prime Minister say this, and  Mr Beazley  said it on innumerable occasions. We are asking them to do now what they told the people of this country, when they were trying to win an election, that they would do. 
I point out to those who think that the Government is on a good thing electorally on this issue that I do not think it is. Let us look at some of the Press comment in leading articles, where this matter has been properly evaluated. The 'Age' describes what the Government is going on with in its propaganda campaign as an elaborate bluff over schools. Its leading article states: 
The Prime Minister undeniably has a flair for the dramatic flourish that captivates the gallery and confounds his opponents. With some highly deceptive foreplay by his Acting Minister for Education he has created the illusion that the Government's whole schools aid program is being irredeemably jeopardised by Opposition obstructionism . . . 
Later, the article states: 
It would be a neat trick if he could pull it off, but it would be a trick; there is always the risk that people would not be fooled. 
It also states that the DLP is not proposing to defeat the relevant legislation or to reject the allocation of schools aid on a needs basis or to redistribute the allocation of funds already announced. The article concludes: 
On the contrary, the Opposition Parties are trying to induce the Government to give just a huie more- apparently $5m more. 
Do honourable senators opposite disagree with that? 
-It is not $114m. That was the most disgraceful suggestion in this whole propaganda campaign. Never at any time did the Opposition ask for $1 14m- that was the propaganda trick of the Government's hired writers. On the contrary, what we said was that all we wanted was $5m so that the Prime Minister's promises would be kept. The leading article in the Brisbane 'Courier Mail' states: 
Threats of a double dissolution aside, the entire Federal schools grants program could be held up by this week's Senate clash. 
The Opposition demands are reasonable- that schools which have lost their grants under the Karmel Committee report should continue to receive them. 
This would allow all schools to continue to receive some Commonwealth Government recognition. 
In his speech,  Mr Beazley  said that he personally would like all schools to be associated with the Commonwealth in this way. This article also states that there is nothing in Labor's policy speech for the last election to indicate that grants are to be withdrawn. It states that last year  Mr Whitlam,  as Opposition Leader, said that the Australian Labor Party would support any forms of benefit already existing. Even the 'Sydney Morning Herald' had something to say on the issue. I do not have dme to quote the article in full, but it merely states that this is not a genuine campaign by the Government to defend the under-privileged schools, and refers to this as point scoring, and that is all it is. The paid propagandists have been put to work to manufacture this into an election issue. I repeat that never at any time have we suggested taking a penny from the schools to which money has already been allocated and giving it to the wealthy schools. All we have said is: 'Give them the lot and we will vote for it. But at least carry out your promise and give the $3m or $4m to the schools to which you promised to give it'. This promise was made by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Education before the last election. 
I am very disappointed with the attitude of the Government. I wish that it had allowed itself to be advised on this issue by  Mr Beazley.  I have every confidence in him. Any suggestion that he may have made a promise and broken it would not be a valid one because we have to remember that although he can make a promise he is bound by the decision of his Party. I have every respect for him and I believe that the Bill before us would have been different if he had had his way. I am not terribly keen on all this talk about giving money to schools. I believe that we should talk about giving money to children. That is why I support money being allocated on a per capita basis. As far as I am concerned we are not giving money or we ought not to be giving money to schools. What we ought to do is to allocate money to children and the parents of those children can choose the school to which they will go. But I am also aware that there are people in the community who would like to make a legal challenge to any aid to independent schools. Those people would be suited down to the ground if they could prove that a subvention was being given to a religion through a school instead of a child receiving an education grant. 
No one can cavil at the principle of money being given to children. As a teacher for 19.5 years I was always under the impression that all Austraiian children were entitled to equal rights. What about some of these so-called wealthy schools? I know the position of these schools because I have been to them. In some instances a child is kept at one of these schools because the parents out of a feeling of sacrifice feel that the child should be there. I know of many cases in which the fees are paid not only by the father but also by the mother who has to go to work. Do honourable senators realise that a considerable number of children who attend one of the socalled wealthy schools in Melbourne get there on scholarships and would not be able to attend this school otherwise? I think that those people who suggest that these schools are rolling in wealth have never been near them. I suggest that it would be a good thing if they had a look at the balance sheets of some of these so-called wealthy schools. But, as I have pointed out, it is not only the wealthy schools that will be affected by this legislation.  Senator Rae  and I have given examples of schools that are in a difficult situation.  Senator Devitt  was shocked when I mentioned a Jewish school which has been disadvantaged because of the categorisation. He said: 'Why did they not appeal?' I said: 'They did appeal but they were turned down'.  Senator Devitt  said that there must be something wrong and I agree with him. 
Well, I am sorry. It was someone on his side of the chamber. I withdraw that. But  Senator Devitt  definitely- definitely, I say- did make a plea on the basis that the prime Minister had never made the promises which I heard him make and which I am prepared to play at a Watergate afternoon in this place on any occasion he wishes. 

 - Senator Devitt says: God forbid'. I agree with him. It would be a pity if we played them because it would destroy our faith in the Prime Minister in the same way, perhaps, as  President  Nixon has had his faith destroyed. Down at that same meeting at which  Mr Whitlam  promised aid to schools a person said: 'Let us take 2 people in the community, both with the same income and the same assets. One decides to send his son to Melbourne Boys High School which has magnificent buildings and a magnificent staff. There is not a wealthy school in Australia at which one would get better teaching. Everything about that school is top class. It is an elitist school and it is only one of a number. This boy is going to get, according to the needs basis set out by this Government, practically everything except some small incidental sports fees and others. The Government will pay everything. But another man says that he will send his son to a private school at which he has to pay $1,000 or, the way fees are going up, $1,500 a year'. The Prime Minister was asked how he could account for a method whereby a boy in a 
State school gets exactly the top elitist education which is received by a boy in one of the top private schools, the former without his parents paying practically anything and the latter with his parents having to pay enormous sums because the Government believes in a needs basis. The Prime Minister was asked: 'How do you answer that?' He said: 'I cannot answer that question'. 
This year education costs are rising steeply. Every school, particularly a private school, will find that it will be called on for heavily increased sums of money. However, the Government has determined that this is a good time to take away from certain schools the assistance that has helped them to keep going. What about the position of the father and mother in the country who in most cases have to send their children to private schools in the cities because the Government, except in a few instances, does not run boarding schools? What the Government is saying to those parents in the country is that it will discriminate against them. But these people have to send their children to one of these big private schools because it is only schools of this type which can afford to have boarding areas. The Government will force up the fees of children who attend boarding schools. 
The situation makes one wonder. I went to a university years ago only because I received scholarships. Today the rich can go to universities and trie Government pays for everything. The Government also pays wealthy pensioners as well as the poor pensioners. There is no needs system for people attending universities or receiving pension payments or child endowment. The means test is out. Why then is the Government imposing a means test in the case of schools? Some parents who have children attending what they regard as deprived schoolssome of these are religious schools- have said to me: 'Look, we are going to get more money; you ought to vote for this '. 
Yes. These people write to me. I say to those parents: 'Do you not realise that the aid promised by this Government is only of a temporary nature? If the aid enables the school that your child attends to be improved, at a certain point under the Government system aid will be cut off'. Who is going to tell me that this method will not result in a system whereby gradually the independent schools are phased out because of rising costs and lack of resources? That is the fact-the ugly fact- that they have to face. 
I conclude by saying once again that all the unscrupulous propaganda has been to the effect that we want to take money from the poor schools and give it to the wealthy schools. We have never at any time said that. All we have asked is that every penny continue to be given to the government and the underprivileged schools. We have said that we will vote to give them every penny the Government proposes to give them. All we ask of the Government is this: Having made a promise before the election and received thousands of votes because of that promise, it should keep its promise and give to the small number of A class schools that are left the basic per capita grants which  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Beazley  pledged themselves as honourable men to give. 
We are debating an amendment which has been moved by the combined Opposition, comprising the Liberal Party, the Country Party and the Democratic Labor Party. The purpose of the amendment is this: We say that we will vote for every cent of the money which the Commonwealth under the Karmel Committee report said it would give to all schools except those grouped in category A. By saying that we will vote for all that money we disprove the unscrupulous propaganda used by the Government in the Press and the media to the effect that what we wanted to do was take money from the poorer schools and give it to the wealthy independent schools. We never put up any such proposition. It was thought up in the propaganda circles of the Government. All we said- this is what we say tonight- is that we will vote for every cent that the Government wants to give to the state schools and the poorer schools. All we ask is that the Government carry out the promise made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley,  before the election, namely, that if the Labor Party were elected to office it would at least maintain the basic per capita grants given to every school. If anyone wants to deny that that promise was made, these are the words or  Mr Whitlam  delivered on 20 June 1 972 at the Catholic Luncheon Club: 
The ALP has never voted against any Bill proposing Commonwealth aid for education and it will support any forms of benefit already existing. 
By what he is doing today the Prime Minister has broken his word. On 27 October 1972 the Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley,  said at Haberfield: 
Whispering campaigns to the contrary, no private school under Labor will in future get less than the per capita grant it gets now. 
That is the promise made by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Education. We are saying that we will vote for the sum of almost $500m that the Government proposes to give to the other schools, but as the Government promised to maintain the per capita grants, why does it not maintain them at that level by increasing them by approximately $8m, as the Government says, or $5m, as we say? But we have achieved something. The propaganda put out by the Government when we first advanced our proposition stated that it would cost $114m. Tonight the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  who is in charge ofthe Bill has told us that it will cost $8m. 
I know that it is a different proposition. Of course it is. But where did the $106m go? It was a figment of the imaginations of people who were opposed to the action that we suggested. They thought up the figure in the hope that their propaganda would deceive the members of the community. What are the schools that the Liberal Party, the Country Party and the Australian Democratic Labor Party are fighting for? Nearly every one of them is a Protestant or a Jewish school. Originally, 105 schools were to receive nothing. The list was cut down to between 40 and 50 schools. We are assured that they are almost all Protestant and Jewish schools. They are the ones that are to be left out. My Party, the Country Party and the Liberal Party are firm upon the point that those schools are entitled to payments under the terms of the promise of the Prime Minister and the promise of the Minister for Education. When the Government says to us that it will fight an election on the issue, I tell it that we will welcome an election on the issue of whether the promises that the Government made when it wanted votes to win an election can be believed. I also tell the Government that if it fights an election on this issue,  Mr Whitlam  will not be Prime Minister when the election is over. If there is one thing that the average Australian stands for, it is fair play. The gallup polls show that the average 
Austraiian believes in what was called aid, but what I call justice, for independent schools. I do not believe that the Australian electorate will accept a situation in which, for the sake of $8m, this Government says that it is prepared if necessary to plunge the country into an election. It will fight that election on the question of whether in future the word of the Prime Minister can be accepted. 
We are asking the Government to spend an extra $8m. It will spend $700m on education. To keep that promise will cost an extra $8m. It cannot do that. But it can spend $1.5m on the painting 'Blue Poles'. We are not talking about wealthy schools. We are dealing not with schools but with children. I have been given evidence by the heads of some of the schools that are to receive nothing under this scheme that they provide scholarships for hundreds of poor children to enable them to attend those schools without the payment of fees. I know of innumerable instances of mothers who go to work to try to give their children a better education. This decision of the Government to wipe out fees for a considerable number of schools means that fees in those schools will have to be increased. It will become impossible for the poorer parents to send their children to these schools. Instead of the enrolments at such schools being diluted as they are today between children whose parents are well off and children whose parents are not well off, this Government will force them to become schools exclusively for the elite, for the upper class. I believe that this legislation to that degree could be described as class legislation of a most unacceptable type. 
In recent months we have had tears wept over the poor Catholic schools, in some cases by people who to my knowledge for 20 years were violently opposed to one penny of State aid for any independent school. They have suddenly discovered poverty stricken Catholic schools. Such people say that they are benefactors and that they are the people who really want to help such schools. I would think that the Australian Catholic bishops would have some regard for the poor Catholic schools. Do they agree with the Government 's policy? They disagree. 
-The honourable senator should go and get Mick Young. He can tell the honourable senator about that. 
I have never been on the run; I have always been able to walk. Let me point out what the Catholic bishops think of this program. Commenting on this legislation they said: 
We most urgently ask the Australian Government to achieve this reconciliation by including in its program effective assistance to every child in the form of a basic recurrent grant. Meanwhile as a first practical measure, we ask the Australian Government to revert to the recommendation of the Interim Committee to continue aid to the schools in the highest categories in 1974. 
Should some children be completely excluded from any share in Federal financial assistance, we Bishops, as a pledge of our sincerity would strongly encourage Catholic parents, schools and educational authorities to join with us in giving all possible support to these excluded children even to the extent of renouncing in their favour some of the aid allocated. 
So the bishops are entirely opposed to this Government's action and they do not wish Catholic schools to receive an advantage at the expense of the Protestant and Jewish schools which will be completely excluded from the scheme. I think that that is a sufficient indication of what is thought of this program by the people who, according to the Government, it is trying to help. 
I have been a teacher and I know the problems that face particularly an independent school. We are coming to Christmas. What is the Christmas present from the Australian Labor Party to the independent schools that have been placed in class A by the Karmel Committee report? It is a complete cut-off of aid. Even the Karmel Committee commented on the damage that would be done to such schools by cutting off the aid at this time. This Government which can spend $1.5m on the 'Blue Poles' painting; which has wasted God knows how much in Torres Strait on a turtle farm; which is at present pouring money through the Australian Council for the Arts into enterprises which will do nothing to benefit the arts, to a degree which I believe will soon become a bigger scandal in regard to the Council for the Arts than was the case in regard to the turtle farms; this Government which has money to burn is not prepared to keep its promise to give $8m- so it says- or $5m, as we say to 45 or 46 independent schools that will receive a Christmas present of a complete cut-off of any assistance. This could practically bankrupt them and could cause a number of them to close. All this is done in the sacred cause of education. I believe that the Australian people have been hoodwinked by the Government's propaganda that has stated that we are attempting to take $1 14m from the State schools and from other schools. The Government now says that this can be done for $8m. I believe the Government stands condemned as a Government that cannot be relied on to keep its promise. If the Government wants to do the honourable thing, when this amendment goes to the House of Representatives the Government will say that it will continue the present system, at least until there is an election and the people can decide. If the Government does that, at least it will be taking the honourable and democratic course. If it does not do that and decides to go to the country on this issue, I will have no compunction in fighting for the 45 or 46 schools concerned. My Party is not deterred by the suggestion that we may lose in our numbers as a result of an election. 
We have always been prepared to put our heads on the block. We have challenged the Government for nearly 2 months to go to the country on a double dissolution, but Government members do not have the intestinal fortitude to take up the challenge. 
-I think that  Senator McLaren  has chickened. I believe it is an honour to support this recommendation that the Prime Minister should keep the promise that he and the Minister for Education made. The Minister has said that the Government is worried not about the sum involved but the principle. What principle could there be in saying - 
That is not a principle. The Minister said that economic need is not involved. He said that the Government was not really concerned about the money. What principle can there be in making a promise of aid and not keeping it? I appeal to the Government at this late stage to do the honourable thing and accept this amendment in the House of Representatives. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. We had a statement that  Senator Georges  was no longer the head of the turtle farming company, Applied Ecology Pty Ltd; we have now had a statement from him that he is head of the company. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether  Senator Georges  is in, whether he is out, or whether he is suspended like Mohammed's coffin between heaven and earth? 
I wish to speak very briefly, merely to indicate that we support the general character of the Bill. 
However, I speak also to draw attention to something that has happened concerning communication between industry and the Government over this Bill. It is pointed out in a communication I have received from the Australian Manufacturers ' Export Council, which states: 
The Minister for Overseas Trade,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, announced on 13 March 1973 that the Government had decided to extend the export incentive schemes in the form of export incentive grants and export market development allowance until June 1974. 
I think that that would have been done at the request of the businesses concerned and that the decision of the Minister was a wise one. The submission continues: 
During the intervening period, the Minister would arrange for a thorough review of the operation of the schemes and the outcome of that review would be considered the Cabinet. 
As a result of this co-operation with  Dr Cairns  the Australian Manufacturers' Export Council undertook a nationwide survey. It obtained extensive information and made it available. As a result of deliberations the Council has now sent a submission with recommendations on a revised overall export development scheme to the Minister for Overseas Trade. I would like to see that kind of co-operation in other measures which the Government undertakes and which may affect the business world. The general body of Australian manufacturers in a recent report called for that type of co-operation. The manufacturers said that they felt that there had been a major breakdown in communication between the Government and industry on a Bill such as the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill. They said that they wanted the opportunity to consult the Government prior to the introduction of legislation into Parliament which would have repercussions on the business sector. The Associated Chambers of Manufacturers of Australia in its report states: 
Even when industry is consulted, frequently it is only after the experts in the Government have reached fixed positions and perhaps even the Minister has become committed to the policy. Under these circumstances input from industry is too late, with the result that industry is put in the position of being against something or of appearing to be negative. 
The newly appointed Minister for Secondary Industry and Supply,  Mr Kep  Enderby, has publicly acknowledged the lack of consultative machinery to enable effective communications. 
That is between the Government and industry. The report points out that the Minister has taken an initiative which the ACMA welcomes, and which I welcome, to establish an Australian industries council which will consist of Ministers from the Federal and State governments, industry leaders and trade unionists. I do not wish to delay the passage of the Bill except to say that I think that a lot of the problems which the 
Government has met in the past 12 months in regard to legislation of an economic character could have been obviated if the Government, having prepared its plans, had said to industrial organisations: 'Let us take time out. Let us have this legislation he here for a while. We will look at it. You put your submissions and we will see whether we cannot reach a point of cooperation'. This would be better than the Government being in the position of wanting something and the Opposition opposing it. That is the reason which lies behind the decision which the Australian Democratic Labor Party has made to defer certain Bills. 
We feel that when a Bill comes in and when the Government has reached a fixed position there ought to be time for consultation, discussion and possible co-operation with industry. Therefore, at times when people criticise the DLP and say that we are obstructing Government legislation, it is not the case that we want to obstruct government legislation. We say that before these measures which may have a wide economic effect come into operation, surely there ought to be time for industries which will be affected to have a good look at these measures and to make their submissions to the Government as to how the measures can be improved. Therefore I am pleased to see the indication here that both  Dr Cairns  and  Mr Enderby  bear in mind the need for co-operation and consultation. I hope that that kind of thing will continue. 
Like  Senator Drake-Brockman  I am going to be all sweetness and light so far as these Bills are concerned. I congratulate the Government for introducing them. I congratulate the Minister for Education,  Mr Kim  Beazley, who, even though we have caused him some trouble over the past couple of weeks, we all acknowledge is a man who has a very fine outlook in regard to education. He is a very broad minded man and one who is determined to do all he can to improve the status of education in this country. I want to make only a couple of points. About 10 days ago, in a cognate type of debate on certain Bills, I referred to the large number of students who enter universities and who do not complete even the first or second term in some cases and who, in an extraordinarily large number of cases, do not complete the first year. I suggested to the Government that there must be scope for some system by which the suitability of a student for a university course or some other type of course or training could be determined. No system which determines whether a student should go to a university would be perfect, but I put that suggestion because education is taking an increasing amount of Commonwealth finance. In those circumstances we should adopt the attitude that we will make available all the money which is required but we should get value for it. I raise that matter only because I believe that it would be to the advantage of everybody- the Government, the Opposition and the whole country- to ensure that the people who go to university at least have some real claim to go there. If we could ensure that a reasonable proportion of them would be weeded out rather than go to a university and fail, as such large numbers do in the first year, we would be doing good to them, because defeat saps their confidence, and we would certainly be helping the finances of the Government. 
I will not labour the point about no means test for universities, other than to say that I remember when the Government announced that it intended to take responsibility for all the fees of the students. I was talking to the rector of my university college and he remarked to me: 'I hope the Government knows how much this will cost it'. He considered that the expenditure involved would be extraordinarily high. I presume that the Government looked at the matter, but he is an authority in regard to university education and the attitude which he adopted- he wants to see universities advanced- was that he thought that an extraordinarily large sum would be involved, and he questioned whether that money could not have been put to a better use in some other educational direction. I am glad that the Government has paid tribute to the work that was done by a committee of which I was a member which inquired into all aspects of teacher training. I am pleased that the Government has looked at quite a number of suggestions which we made and that there are indications of action in regard to them. I am also pleased at the final words of the second reading speech of the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  on one Bill. He said: 
As teachers colleges are now becoming autonomous the desirability of a diversity of basic approach to education makes it opportune to consider the value of private teachers colleges. Pre-school teachers colleges are private institutions in many cases. The Australian Government 's policy of full financial support for tertiary education makes the support of private teachers colleges a logical step. 
I am pleased to see that statement. I congratulate the Government on that statement of policy. I congratulate it for introducing these Bills, and I congratulate the Minister for Education who has fathered them. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party will not oppose the legislation. As in the case of the other 2 Parties whose representatives have spoken in this debate, the DLP had representations made to it in regard to certain elements in the taxation field. We could suggest changes which undoubtedly in the eyes of a considerable section of the community would be seen as improvements. The position is that the Government has to have its revenue and in the circumstances we will not oppose the legislation. But I seek the opportunity to make one or two suggestions on the basis of representations that have been made to me. The first was made by the Manufacturers' Mutual Insurance Ltd which realises that it has to accept its obligations. This company makes a plea in regard to the date of operation of the legislation because of what it may have to do in reorganising its activities as a result of the amendments. The company in a letter stated: 
You are, of course, aware of the obligations which will devolve on affected insurers from this amendment. 
This is in regard to clause 36 of the Bill. It continued: 
However, you may not be cognisant of the tremendous volume of work which will be involved. Precise overall figures of the number of cases of the type concerned are not available at this stage but they would exceed half a million annually Australiawide. Last financial year, our Company alone handled some 26,000 such cases in New South Wales. You will readily appreciate, sir, that, for such a volume, the performance of the responsibilities of a group employer (including the issue of a group certificate to each injured worker at the end of his period of incapacity) will be a major task, which could only be carried out efficiently and effectively with the aid of a computer. To prepare and test an appropriate computer program for the work would require at least 2 to 3 months. 
This is a request which I hope that the Taxation Office will examine. Possibly it has already been approached on this matter. The request is that the implementation of this amendment be deferred till 1 July 1974 or, failing that, to at least 1 April 1974. Earlier implementation could force the company into a manual operating system with chaotic results. 
I would like to have one question answered. This company is concerned with the advice that it says it received from the Taxation Office and that is that it must declare itself to be the employer of every claimant to whom it issues a group certificate. The company wonders what liabilities, if any, would be created for it in other areas such as payroll tax, holiday pay, sick pay and long service leave, if it were declared to be the employer. I hope that the Taxation Office will be able to answer that question. 
The other matter which I wish to raise concerns a company that is interested in afforestation. The company points out that clause 1 7 of the legislation removes the outright deduction available to primary producers, including those engaged in afforestation, land clearing and other expenditure but- and here is the point- allows a deduction for expenditure over 10 years. The company claims that this penalises the bona fide afforestation companies and it outlined its reasons. It said that the normal agricultural activity involves clearing the land on a once and for all basis, that is the land is permanently improved as long as it is reasonably maintained and various cropping and grazing activities continue. Land used for afforestation is cleared but trees are replanted on the area. There is no permanent capital improvement from the initial operation. In fact as the trees grow the value of the land decreases as the land is not able to be used for other activities until it is cleared again. 
The company also made the point in regard to the 10-year deduction period that, as the returns from the initial investment in land clearing and planting of trees do not accrue to the afforestation company for 20 years or more, the company is faced with substantial financial servicing costs until the trees mature which is of course very different from the ordinary primary producer who normally gets his returns every year. The company also pointed out that the existing taxation provisions have been fundamental to the viability of this rather peculiar type of agricultural activity and it has been used to offsetting the hazards of deferred returns such as the possibility of a bushfire wiping out its investment and so on. Therefore the company believes that the substitution of an outright deduction for land clearing introduces an added cost burden to afforestation. As I said earlier, the DLP will not oppose the Bill. I would like to see the Taxation Office give consideration to this matter when it is determining future policies. As I have said, this matter may already have come under its notice but I hope that the matter will be given this consideration. 
I agree with  Senator Maunsell  that some of the new provisions introduced by the Government are a blow to the farmer. There are some people who suggest that the farmer is now on velvet. But a few years ago the farmer was far from being on velvet. Some farmers, particularly those who are in debt or who are paying off land, still have a long way to go before they can be regarded as being in a good position. I would have hoped that we could have let them run on a little longer before taking from them what some people would say is increased or renewed prosperity because, as I said before, I do not think that some of them have made up the ground that they lost a few years ago. Representations have been made to me in regard to insurance and one or two other matters. But it is the feeling of the DLP and the members of the other Opposition Parties to which I have spoken that the Government must have its revenue. For that reason we do not oppose the Bills. 
-Will the Minister for the Media take notice that, like other viewers of television, I am sick and tired of an almost daily diet of the opinions of Laurie Carmichael, Jack Mundey, Norm Gallagher and Jack Halfpenny, all members of the Communist Party? Without interfering with the independence of the television companies, is there any way he could suggest to them that there are other trade union leaders? 
This is a proposal for an armistice. It is nothing more. For some weeks there has been a continuing struggle between the Government and Opposition, the background or the basis of which has been the attitude of the Government that education grants should be determined almost solely on a needs basis, and the attitude of the Opposition which could be summed up in the words that there should be equal treatment for every Australian child. As I said, the present proposal is for an armistice. We are close to the new year. The schools have to make their arrangements. If we do not do something now we will have killed Father Christmas, and nobody wants to kill Father Christmas. In those circumstances the Democratic Labor Party will go along with the wishes of the Government except in one respect. There is a provision in clause 13 which refers to the primary obligation of the Government to maintain government school systems. If an amendment is moved to provide that it merely be an obligation rather than a primary obligation, we will support such an amendment. I understand that we will not be successful in this regard because the Country Party will vote with the Government on this matter. 
On all the other issues we will go along with what we regard as an armistice because the DLP will continue to campaign at all times for equality of treatment for every child in Australian schools. We do not recognise any system of apartheid under which some children will have prior treatment over other children according to the schools that they attend. Therefore, the attitude of our Party will be consistent. We will continue to fight for that ideal. In the present case we are all aware of the circumstances. There was a deadlock between the 2 Houses of Parliament. Last week the Country Party determined to take action to resolve the deadlock. As a matter of courtesy, the Leader of the Australian Country Party informed me on Monday- I appreciate his action- that the members of his 
Party had undertaken this initiative. He did not inform me of the terms. He simply informed me of certain principles which they bore in mind and in particular that they thought that something better should be done than implementing the Karmel Committee report. They have succeeded in obtaining something better than the terms of the Karmel Committee report. My Party was not engaged in the negotiations, but yesterday afternoon I met  Mr Anthony, Mr Nixon  and  Senator Drake-Brockman  and they explained to me the terms of a possible compromise agreement which had been decided upon. I took it to the members of my Party and they determined that they will go along with the amendments proposed by the Government, although, as I have said, they stood firm by their principles and they will fight for those principles in the future. 
In regard to the composition of the Commission, we have made a strong plea for different organisations to be represented by their own chosen nominees. I have always believed in that principle. I was a teacher for 19.5 years. At that time I and my fellow unionists fought for the right to appoint our own nominees to Government bodies. The Government used to say: 'Let us appoint them. They will be all right'. We teachers always fought for the right to have our own nominees, just as trade unions fight for the right to have their own nominees. In my day as a unionist the teachers succeeded to a large extent in having the right to appoint their own nominees. I thought that would still be the policy of teacher organisations, but apparently the wheel has turned a full circle. I have had representations from teacher organisations that they do not want to be represented by their own people but that they are prepared to be represented by Government nominees. They have said that that would make for an independent Commission. T have asked before and I ask again: How can a Commission be independent when every member of it is appointed by the Government and is dependent upon the Government for a job? I should have thought that that would have ensured that a Commission would not be independent. However, when it comes to this agreement between the 2 sides one has to have regard to the fact that if the Government does not get its own way and appoint the Commission it has the power and it has always had the power, as it did in the case of the Karmel Committee, to appoint a committee of its own to do a Karmel type job. So, strictly speaking, the Opposition will sacrifice nothing by agreeing on this point because the Government had the power to appoint such a committee without legislation if it wanted to do so. 
There are certain things in the proposed amendments which I think are very valuable. As I have said before, the only thing on which I disagree with the Government- I understand that the Country Party will join with the Government on it so that the Government will win on it- is the inclusion of the provision that the primary obligation upon the Commission is to be in regard to education in government schools. I think there should be an obligation on it to look after every child and not just those in government schools. But I realise, as far as the Government is concerned, that there are provisions in the Bill which look in the direction of equality. I have noticed that clause 13(3) states that in the exercise of its functions, the Commission shall have regard to such matters as are relevant, including the need for improving primary and secondary education in Australia and of providing increased and equal opportunities for education in government and non-government schools. That is very valuable. I appreciate the point that it could be argued that any statement by the Government that it has a primary obligation to government schools is qualified by the fact that it has said that its aim is equal treatment and equal improvements in education for all schools. 
That is true. There is, furthermore, a very valuable statement by the Government in the revised amendments, which refer to the need for ensuring that the facilities provided in all schools in Australia, whether government or non-government, are of the highest standard. There is also the very valuable statement by the Government that it seeks to add to the matters which the Commission is to take into account the prior right of parents- I understand that originally the provision read 'the right of parents'- to choose whether their children are educated at a government school or at a nongovernment school. Those are all qualifications in the direction of what my Party stands for, that is, the equality of Australian children in education. But I still feel that the situation would be improved if the word 'primary' were removed from the expression 'primary obligation in regard to providing for government schools '. 
The position adopted by my Party is that under protest and only as an armistice- not because it is what we believe; we are going to make a continuing fight for educational justice- we will accept what has been proposed and will not oppose any of the amendments, but if an amendment is moved which is based on the use of the word 'primary' we will support it. The only other comment I want to make is that I have received some correspondence from people who say that this will mean that the category A independent schools will receive assistance for only 2 years. It does not mean anything of the sort. There will be an election within the next 2 years. I believe that there will be a change of government. I also believe that under the new Government the propositions and principles which the Opposition has fought for will be put into effect. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party will support the amendment moved by  Senator Rae  in relation to this matter. We realise and we freely admit that the Government is including in the Schools Commission Bill a number of statements which give the impression that it is standing for equality. But to make absolutely sure we support the deletion of the word 'primary'. This means that the Government simply has an obligation to attend to the needs of government schools. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the amendments. Everybody knows that they are part of the package. Therefore, we are in agreement with them. 
-No. My attitude is that I do not intend to kill Father Christmas. There has been talk about winning and losing. The Government proposed to give certain schools nothing and to give other schools something. The Karmel report suggested that all schools should get something, but the suggestion was not nearly as good as people would have liked. Under the arrangement category A schools will get much more than the Karmel report suggested, and certain other schools will get more than the Government proposed. I will not say who has won and who has lost. All I say is that a lot of the schools will realise that they could have got nothing or that they could have got small amounts as a result of the Karmel report, but now they will do a lot better. 
I have been a senator for 14 years. Some people ask whether this scheme means the phasing out of aid to certain schools in 2 years. I tell them that my experience is that if the schools get payments for 2 years they will continue to get payments after 2 years because the facts of political life are that once a government gives this kind of aid other governments will not be able to alter the situation. The schools will still be getting payments after 2 years. One fact which will assure the retention of the aid is that there will be a different government in power. 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Media. Is it the attitude of the Government that other things being equal preference in placing Government advertising should be given to public relations firms which have a majority Australian control? Bearing in mind the large volume of advertising now being placed by the Government with public relations firms which are owned abroad, is the Government taking any action to implement what I have heard stated by a number of Government members to be its attitude in this matter, namely, preference for Australian controlled firms? 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party will not oppose the amendments, which we all know are part of a package. We accept the situation but I repeat what I said yesterday- this does not determine the fight for educational equality, it is only an armistice and the fight will continue in the years to come. I think it was a pity that the Government did not follow the wishes of the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  who, as we all know, wanted to continue basic grants for category A schools but was overruled. We have had all this trouble which obviously had an effect upon his health. I think he could have been saved that trouble and saved the strain upon his health if the Government had been prepared at that time to do what it now says it is prepared to do. I hope that  Mr Beazley  will speedily be restored to health, and I hope that the Government will take more notice of his recommendations in future. If it does so it will not get itself into the problems which it got into in the last month or two on the education question. 
I have noticed in the Press varied reactions. Some newspapers say that the Government won and some say that we won- like the poem on the battle of Killiecrankie. I do not think anybody will win until the day comes when we have full educational justice. I deplore all the talk about aid for schools. We are not giving aid to schools; we are giving aid to Australian children. They are the people we are helping. When people say that Scotch College in Melbourne or St Joseph's College in Sydney should not be given any money because they are wealthy schools, they are saying that every one of the children attending those schools is a wealthy child. Anybody who has had any association with those schools knows perfectly well, firstly, that very large numbers of scholarships are given to children who are in need and who attend those schools and, secondly, that many of the children who attend them do so because their parents make sacrifices and in many cases both the father and the mother work. When it is said that assistance is being taken away from these schools, actually the assistance is being taken away from the child and his father and mother who are making sacrifices in order to maintain him at one of those schools. 
So I say once again that as far as the Democratic Labor Party is concerned this is only an episode in the fight. We regard this as merely a stepping stone to another campaign to get justice for schools and to establish the principle that we are not aiding schools which are the property of religious denominations; we are aiding Australian children who are attending these schools. That is the principle on which we stand. However, as I have said, we have declared an armistice and we will go along with it for the time being. 
The statement that what has happened has been disgraceful reflects upon the Australian Democratic Labor Party of which I am Leader. I say bluntly that my idea of something disgraceful is for a group of people to suggest that we should co-operate with the Government in order to get through the business in a reasonable time then, after a large number of honourable senators have urged us to co-operate with the Government for that purpose, to turn around and attack us and allege that we have been guilty of disgraceful conduct. 
As the representative of the immovable object which has opposed itself to irresistable forces so often in this chamber, I offer you,  Mr President,  the sincere thanks of my Party for the manner in which you have conducted our affairs. I join with that our thanks to the many members of the staff of the Senate who have been so efficient, who have made our lives as happy as they could reasonably expect to be and who have assisted in the defence of the Senate on a number of occasions. So far as we are concerned, we offer the best Christmas greetings to all members of the Senate. I was in the Senate at a time when things were a little more bitter than they are today. I think there is a good spirit in the Senate today. We are in opposition on politics but not on personalities. That is a good thing. I wish everybody a merry Christmas and a happy double dissolution. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has publicity recently been given to Union opposition to an agreement which it was alleged the Government was seeking from Ansett Airlines of Australia, Trans- Australia Airlines and Qantas Airways Ltd, in connection with future industrial negotiations in the airline industry. 
Will the Minister inform the Senate if there has been any communication, verbally or in writing, with the airlines mentioned seeking such an agreement. 
What were the terms of the agreement 
Why did the Government seek the agreement. 
What is the current situation in relation to the agreement as far as the Government is concerned. 
Have all or any of the airlines stated their attitude to such an agreement; if so, what is their attitude. 
In the hope of obtaining a place in the sun for my Party, I give notice that, contingent on the  President  proceeding to the placing of business on any day, I shall move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent  Senator McManus  moving a motion relating to the Order of Business on the notice paper. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party desires to be associated with this tribute to our previous  Chairman  of Committees, Edgar Prowse. When one first met Edgar Prowse he gave the impression of being somewhat reserved. But when one got to know him one found that he was a very kindly and friendly man with, at times, an impish sense of humour. I enjoyed my association with him. I am sure that all honourable senators did. He acted in the chair for a considerable period. At times he had to control riotous behaviour, but in spite of that he always endeavoured to be completely impartial. I believe that every honourable senator, whether he agreed or at times disagreed with Edgar Prowse 's decisions, knew that they were sincere decisions, made without partiality to either side. I think he will always be remembered for one thing in particular and that is the amendment which he moved which determined our recommendation in relation to the site of a new and permanent Parliament House. I think that is something that Edgar Prowse is proud of. He deserves to be proud of it. We all wish him well in his retirement. 
by leave- On behalf of the Democratic Labor Party I offer our congratulations to  Senator Webster.  Over a number of years in this place he has shown his ability. He comes from the premier State- Victoria. He has many other qualifications for the position to which he has been elected and we were happy to support him. I cannot wish him a long tenure of office because that would mean that after June 30 my own colleague  Senator Little  would be eliminated, there being an election to be held in May, as most of us know. However, I wish him well while he holds this position and I assure him of the complete co-operation of the DLP. The only other thing that I have to say is that I hope that now that the  President  and  Senator Webster  are a team, in the future they will agree totally on the Standing Orders. 
I desire to associate my party and myself with the expression of condolence to the relatives of the late John McCallum. When I was elected to the Senate in 1956 he was a member of the Senate. He sat for years in the seat which is now occupied by  Senator Wriedt.  I remember him for the kindly manner in which he received me and for his friendly outlook at all times. He was an intellectual. He took his parliamentary duties most seriously. All who knew him liked him for his kindly attitude. When he left Parliament we missed him. We offer to his relatives our sincere sympathy at his passing. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Will the Minister agree that the Post Office, which falls under his ministerial responsibility, should be run by the Government and not by the postal unions? If so, how does the Minister explain his passive acquiescence in union demands for the closure of all post offices on Saturdays? Is the Minister aware that over 300,000 persons who are largely working people transact their postal business on Saturdays because of their inability to do so during the normal working week? What is the Minister's reaction to the claim of the unions that because they have  banned all Saturday work their members should now receive an increase in wages to compensate them for the loss of their Saturday earnings? 
Migrants who have come to Australia from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and its satellites have asked me to protest at the presence in Australia of Lieutenant-General E. Pitovranov who has admitted that he served for a long period in the Soviet Secret Police (KGB). The migrants do not accept the claim that he has retired from the KGB and is here as a trade official for discussions on, among other matters, patents. Migrants who have suffered from the KGB insist that the only way to leave the KGB is in a coffin. They believe he is here to inspect and make more effective the existing Soviet spy apparatus in Australia. This spy apparatus has, firstly, pressured refugees from the Soviet by threatening reprisals on their relatives; secondly, sought to intimidate Russian Orthodox clergymen to support the Soviet regime, notably at Geelong, Victoria and thirdly, arranged for the Communist organ 'Homeland' to be sent to migrants from the Soviet or East Germany. Even when they change their address, the publication follows them to the new address, indicating they are under surveillance and that 'Big Brother' is watching them. 
The Australian Government has expressed concern at the crimes against humanity which the writer Solzhenitsyn has exposed. The agent carrying out these crimes was the KGB of which Pitovranov was a Lieutenant-General. It is claimed that one of his tasks was to arrange kidnapping of refugees and their transfer to the Soviet. Yet the Australian Government during recent days has given honored treatment and assistance to this same delegation, of which Pitovranov is a member. When another KGB Lieutenant-General visited Britain in the entourage of Khruschev, the British Press, public and Labour Party raised such an outcry that he was sent home. The British Labour Party at a dinner to Khruschev protested so strongly at the denial of human rights in the Soviet implemented by the KGB that Khruschev said that if he had a vote in a British election he would vote Conservative. 
Recently the Australian Government refused entry into Australia of a group of Rhodesian Band of Hope girls to show disapproval of alleged denial of human rights there. Why is a Lieutenant-General, who implemented the denial of human rights in the Soviet which Solzhenitsyn exposed, admitted and honoured by the Australian Government? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. What, according to Commonwealth law, is the definition of an Aboriginal? Does the Commonwealth accept that definition for all purposes? 
I wish to indicate that we will also be opposed to the motion. 1 do not intend to speak at length. I indicated the general principles on which we base our attitude to this kind of request to rush through legislation, when I spoke earlier in the day. We believe that there may be a case to rush through legislation when it is a matter, for example, of increasing the pensions, but we do not see any reason to rush through legislation which deals with a number of different referenda, when all honourable senators know that there is no real necessity to take this action. Our Party's attitude is that we will co-operate with the Government when urgent legislation such as a Bill to increase pensions should be rushed through. In a case such as this, the Bills contain a number of propositions which ought to be inquired into and dealt with at a time which will not be so very far away, whatever we do in respect of this motion. Therefore, our attitude is that this legislation on the coming referenda should be deferred until we have had a good look at the Bills, and then we can debate them in the normal way in which the Senate debates Bills, which justifies it as a House of review. 
I join with other honourable senators in the loyal sentiments that have been expressed in regard to  Her  Majesty the Queen. I and members of my Party feel that the manner in which she carries out her duties honours us and is most creditable to herself. On this occasion when she opened the Parliament she had to make on behalf of the Government a much longer speech than usual. It was a speech that in many senses was rather tiring, but I think we have to admire the dignity with which she carried out her task. Even the sturdy republicans in the Australian Labor Party were favourably impressed and I have heard some of them express their admiration for the manner in which she carried out her task. I have no doubt that others will express similar admiration. When the Queen attended public functions during her last 2 visits I as a monarchist was quite prepared to stand back behind the serried ranks of Labor republicans who surrounded her on each occasion because I felt that they were indicating that whatever their republican sentiments might be they made an exception in her case. 
The Speech made by the Queen on behalf of the Government contains references to what I can describe only as an appalling avalanche of proposed legislation. I complained more than once last year that Parliament was afflicted with legislative indigestion because of the manner in which starry-eyed new Ministers felt that they had to bring in Bill after Bill in order to justify themselves. We are now informed that a great deal of this legislation will need to be held over so that it can be properly examined, but we are to be faced with an even greater avalanche of additional legislation. It is quite obvious that it will be impossible for Parliament to deal with more than half of the proposed legislation in the time that will be available to us. I may be wrong but I suspect that there is electoral strategy in the proposals which the Government says will be put forward. Its supporters know of the approaching Senate election and one argument they propose to use is that the Senate is obstructing the legislation of the Government. In the past week the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has said in Tasmania and Victoria that one of the objects of the Government in the Senate election must be to destroy the small parties, and in particular the Democratic Labor Party. I do not think he will be able to do it. I am sure that he will not be able to get control of the Senate in the next election. 
There is much speculation about whether there will be a double dissolution. I am quite sure that there will not because the Prime Minister has announced that he will tour Europe for 4 or 5 weeks during the recess. I am sure that he has no intention of laying his leadership on the line in a way which might prevent him from achieving that delectable prospect. We will be accused of obstruction in the same way that we were accused of obstruction last year. Let me point out that the Government which accuses us of having obstructed its legislation last year is issuing propaganda claiming great credit to itself because last year the Parliament sat for longer than any Parliament since 1919, and last year a record number of Bills were passed. 
That is so. The Government says that its legislation is being obstructed and at the same time it claims credit for creating records for the passage of legislation. It is typical phoney propaganda for election purposes. The Prime Minister has made the blackmailing assertion in Tasmania and Victoria that the Government will brand the DLP as one of the parties obstructing legislation and that it will be the prime target for attack. All that will have no affect on us. It will not prevent us in any way from acting to ensure that when legislation of an almost revolutionary character comes before this Parliament as it has, when it could affect the whole economy of the country at a time of inflation and involving great risks and dangers, we will not be prevented by the threats of the Prime Minister of action against us from ensuring that that legislation is held up until it can be properly examined and people who have objections to it can place their cases before the Ministers concerned. It will be held up until we have ensured by adequate debate that any dangers have been eliminated and that the legislation if passed will be good for the future of Australia. 
I give that guarantee. We will act to ensure that legislation of a revolutionary character is properly examined and we will enable persons who will be affected by such legislation to make their representations to the Government in adequate time. We will also allow for adequate debate, which is not allowed in another place where the Government has the numbers. It is disgraceful that week after week far-reaching legislation involving on occasions hundreds of clauses is brought before the House of Representatives where the Leader of the House tells members that the measure will be guillotined as it must be passed within a few hours. Honourable senators are aware of the effect of the guillotine. A few hours are allocated for debate and when after only a few clauses have been debated and time is up, the rest of the legislation is passed on one vote without proper or adequate examination. I think that the Australian people are fortunate that in the Senate the Government cannot take action such as that. It cannot force through hastilyconceived and ill-conceived legislation purely on a numbers vote. I am glad that in the Senate we have adopted the stand that such legislation will be carefully debated and, on occasions, referred to select committees. In other words, we have adopted a responsible attitude, the attitude that one would expect of a House of review. 
I want to come now to what will be, after all, the main issue of this Senate election.  Mr Big  says that he will eliminate the Australian Democratic Labor Party. I read recently in propaganda about the British election that  Mr Wilson  declared publicly on the platform and through the media that  Mr Heath  must be removed as Prime Minister of Britain because food and clothing prices had gone up by 20 per cent. Then, I took up my local newspaper in Melbourne and I found that under  Mr Whitlam  food and clothing prices had gone up by 22.2 per cent. In this instance I accept  Mr Wilson  as a good judge. I think that he had the right idea. He said that  Mr Heath  had to go because he had allowed food and clothing prices to go up by 20 per cent. When  Mr Whitlam  has allowed them to go up by even more than that, I think that even  Mr Wilson  would say that what applies to  Mr Heath  has to apply to  Mr Whitlam. 
What has the Government done about prices? It introduced the Prices Justification Tribunal which has no real power. It made an attempt to obtain powers with the referenda conducted last December. The Federal President of the Australian Labor Party opposed one of the referenda. I noticed that when some of the left wingers of the Party, trying to get control of the young Labor organisation, were expelled from the Party the other day the charge against them was that they opposed one of the referendum proposals of the Whitlam Government. If they are expelled for that, why is not Bob Hawke expelled from the Party because he did exactly the same thing? I know members of the Australian Labor Party in this House who said that they voted against the Whitlam proposals on the referendum. If they voted against them, why are the left wingers in the young Labor organisation expelled for doing it and these other members of the Australian Labor Party remain in the Party? 
I ask one question: Why is it that in the legislation for a Prices Justification Tribunal, which I suppose gives some publicity to the question of whether prices should be raised, food and clothing were excluded? Were there some big donations from merchant princes in Melbourne and other places? Why is it that food and clothing, which comprise the major price increases affecting the community, are excluded from the ambit of the Prices Justification Tribunal? Would honourable senators expect a working class organisation, in trying to deal with prices, to refuse even the slight powers that it has to make an examination of food and clothing prices? Are not those the price increases that must affect the ordinary worker and his family? Yet this Government brings in legislation for the purpose of causing an examination to be made of increases in prices and says: 'We will not allow the judges or the persons on that Tribunal to deal with the prices of clothing and food'. I suppose the ordinary worker who can see the prices of those commodities going up every day and who finds that they are the biggest charge on his personal economy, would say to himself: 'Is this a Labor government?' 
The trouble with this Government is that when it entered office all starry eyed, it believed that the coffers of the Government were bottomless. Look at the expenditure that has taken place. We heard all the talk from members of the Government when they were in Opposition about misuse of VIP aircraft, and we saw all the action they took to ensure that undesirable expenditure was not incurred in the use of VIP aircraft. Now they are in power, they are going to buy Boeing 707 aircraft for the VIP flights. You do not buy those aircraft for peanuts. I would say that despite all the talk about the Fill's the Prime Minister's VIP 707 's may well take the place of the FI 1 1 aircraft as the greatest catastrophe in Australian history. I would class the purchase of these aircraft with the purchase of the painting 'Blue Poles'. If anything demands an examination, it is not only the money spent on the turtle farms but also the money spent on 'Blue Poles'. I think that the allegation that one of the advisers of the Government who recommended the purchase of Blue Poles' had a personal interest- a profit making interest- in the advice that he gave, should also be examined by this Government. 
The trouble today is that we are also involved in the same wages and prices spiral that has caused the trouble in Great Britain. Unless this Government representing the national interest can induce the unions and the employers to get together to determine a system which will give the ordinary worker justice from a wage point of view, and ensure that the general interests of the community are preserved, within 8 months we will be in the same position as is Great Britain. One of the troubles today, in the union field, is that the arbitration system and the rule of law have been smashed. I believe that unless we can restore an arbitration system which will give wage justice we have no hope of getting out of the same kind of morass as that in which Britain finds herself. I have noticed with alarm a member of this Government who has duties in the union field stating that he strongly supports collective bargaining of the kind that goes on today in the metal trades industry between the employers and the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union which is largely communist influenced. Honourable senators know what happened. In an endeavour to smash the arbitration system the unions concerned jacked up. They refused to accept the discipline of the arbitration system. The employers concerned said that if the Government would not fight to maintain the rule of law, why should they. They have entered into discussions and negotiations with this great big union, and they are making determinations and giving concessions. The employers are saying amongst themselves that the union can have these things. They say: 'We will make up for it. We will recompense ourselves out of profits and out of tariff protection'. Years ago in 1947 the late  Mr Chifley  warned that this would happen. He said: 
There are other circumstances that must be guarded against, namely those that arise as a result of employers and employees engaged in industries which are almost monopolistic coming together and reaching an agreement with a certainty that they will be permitted to pass on to the consuming public the excessive costs arising from such agreements. Agreements of this kind have a peculiar effect on the other sections of industry which seek similar conditions. 
In other words, when we have these determinations for which this Government has expressed support,  Mr Chifley  warned that monopolistic organisations on both sides would take the national interest for a ride. They would make agreements without regard to the national interest and without regard to the interests of those on fixed incomes, the pensioners and the others. He said that what would happen would be that when they made those agreements and obtained those concessions, other unions which regard the metal industry award as the yardstick would seek similar flow on agreements. In effect the whole arbitration system of this country is thrown into chaos. I doubt very much whether it will be possible ever to restore arbitration, in this country. If the Labor Party did the right thing it would get back to first principles and return to the Act which was passed by  Mr Chifley  in 1947. It was the best attempt to deal with the whole question of arbitration, but it has been fiddled with and ruined by succeeding governments. I hope that this Government will give consideration to going back to the Chifley Act. 
Militant, or so-called militant, union officials today tell their workers that they have to go for an increase of $10, $20, $30 or $40 a week, but everybody knows that the granting of such an increase to a worker is not of benefit to him to the extent that often he believes it is because it invariably puts him into a higher tax bracket in which the taxation scale is a little more savage. In those cases he also finds, if he contributes to a superannuation scheme, that he goes up into the areas in which the contributions are very considerable. The other day I read a letter from a worker in a government department about a $ 10 a week wage increase he received. He found that after the increased superannuation contribution that resulted from his being placed into a higher bracket was taken out and after the increased taxation and the increase in the price of a certain number of commodities had been taken into account the increase in his wage was 66c. I think that the trade union movement will have to look at whether it is to the benefit of the ordinary worker to demand very large increases. Years ago Chifley said that it is not how many dollars one has in one's pay packet which is important but what one can buy with them. 
I want to say a word about the people who are forgotten nowadays, that is, those on fixed incomes- the man who saved his money and the man who commenced paying into an insurance plan 30 or 40 years ago and who has paid into it ever since in the belief that eventually he will get out of the insurance plan enough to keep him in reasonable comfort in the latter days of his life. What has happened to the people on fixed incomes? Those people who thought that they were making sure that they would be able to live in reasonable comfort for the rest of their lives are now finding that the dollars they are getting are worth about a third to a quarter of the value of the money that they actually paid in. I believe that the Government has to consider some method of ensuring that people who endeavour by their own efforts and by their own saving to provide for their later life get a reasonable return and that the value of what they have planned for cannot be taken away by inflation, particularly the galloping inflation that exists under the administration of the present Government. Pensioners are being left behind. I am glad that the Government is going to give them an increase, but I agree with the leaders of the pensioner organisations that the increase is not going to make up for what they have lost in the last couple of years because of the inflation that has occurred under the administration of the Government. I believe that all those people have to be considered. 
I believe that there is need for restoration of the rule of law in the field of employer-employee relations. Sadly, the rule of law is being breached by communists such as Jack Mundey who glory in the fact that their unions are holding up building projects. Jack Mundey has said that his union is holding up building projects to the value of $300m. Why should a union official have the right to say that a building cannot be erected because it offends his personal view of the economy, ecology, or whatever else it may be? If anybody is entitled to say that a building ought to be retained or that a particular residential area should be retained it ought to be a tribunal appointed by the Government. I accuse the Government of gross cowardice in not taking action to prevent one union official from constituting himself as a tribunal above the law. Jack Mundey has done that by saying that his union, without any recourse to a public tribunal, will hold up building projects to the value of $300m. 
One of the most disgraceful examples of cowardice I think I have ever seen is the attitude of the Government to the decision of the postal workers not to work on Saturdays and to their demand that the Government pay them extra wages for the hours they do not propose to work. Any government worth its salt would have stood up and fought against that decision and demand. If the Government accedes to the request of the postal workers it will mean that railwaymen and members of other unions will have the right to decide their hours of work. If the Government concedes to the postal workers the right to decide their own working hours it will have to concede that other unions also have the right. Experience has shown that when a government gives way to one union on a matter like that other unions will enter the field and say: 'If it is good enough for the postal workers to decide their own hours of work it is good enough for us'. 
Today I pointed to what has happened and is happening to the postal services. Four years ago the supporters of the present Government were in opposition. At that time they called on my Party to join them in going to the barricades to fight the proposed postal charge increases. The members of my Party did join them. They then said that if the Government reinstated the charges they would call the Parliament back and fight them. The Government did reinstate them. They called the Parliament back. The members of my Party voted against the proposed increased charges and the supporters of the present Government- the Australian Labor Partywalked out. In those days they were against increased postal charges. Today they are in favour of them. It now costs 7c to post a letter. We were told the other day by a postal union official that he had heard from the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  that the charge for a letter was going to go up to 9c. What is the position today? Only a few years ago we had to pay twopence or threepence to post a letter and we had 2 deliveries a day. We also had a Saturday morning service. The service provided was a better one. I cannot help feeling that nowadays the first class mail is sorted one day and the second class mail the next. The whole service has deteriorated. At the same time the charges have gone up hand over fist. I once heard a member of the Australian Labor Party say that if the Australian Labor Party were ever elected to office it would fix up the postal service. It has been in office for about 1 8 months now and the service is worse than it has ever been. All that is going to happen is that the service is going to get worse. 
I turn now to the subject of defence. I know that many listeners to the broadcasting of these proceedings are anxious about the subject of defence, particularly those who have served their country. In his policy speech the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  pledged that the Australian Labor Party would not reduce the defences of Australia if it were elected to office. He made a definite promise. It was like the promise he made that he would not take away grants from category A schools. In spite of the fact that  Mr Whitlam  promised not to reduce the defences of Australia he has done so to such an extent that today we do not have a worthwhile Army, Navy or Air Force. I have moved for a Senate inquiry into the Army. Our Army has now been cut to 30,000 men, 25,000 of whom are engaged in logistics, transport, clerical duties and manufacturing. That means that if there were trouble in New Guinea today Australia would have only 5,000 soldiers who were able to bear arms. 
Whenever our Government says, as it often does and as it told  Mr Nixon,  that it is nonisolationist I say that it must be isolationist because in view of the miserable Army, Navy and Air Force we have today we dare not be anything else but isolationist. The other day Admiral Peek, who has just retired from the Royal Australian Navy, made a statement in regard to the present situation. He said that before  Mr Barnard  became the Minister for Defence he told the cadets at a naval college that it is inevitable that the Navy will be the cornerstone of our defences for the rest of this century and that it is now the Navy's turn to be a focal point of the defence policies for the next 10 years. All  Mr Barnard  has done since he has been the  Deputy  Prime Minister has been to reduce the Navy to the point where it is little more than a laughing stock. 
What else have we found out about the actions of the Government? The Indian Ocean is vital to us today. It is certainly vital to Western Australia. Forty-six per cent of our trade goes across the Indian Ocean and around the Cape of Good Hope. Much of our oil comes over the Indian Ocean. The Government has adopted the attitude that we should not be worried about the Russians sending naval vessels into the Indian Ocean. The Russians already have, as we all know, atomic submarines in the area. So have the Americans. But when Britain and America, alarmed at the effect of perhaps Russian dominance on the world's oil supplies, decided the other day that they would spend money on reenforcing the atoll of Diego Garcia, what did the Australian Government do? It said that it deplored the decision. If there ever is any trouble in the Indian Ocean the first step the Australian Government will take will be to ask the British and the Americans to allow Australia to use Diego Garcia and also it will ask the South Africans, whom at present it refuses to recognise, to let Australia use Simonstown. As 46 per cent of our trade goes around the Cape of Good Hope, we could not do without Simonstown. 
This Government promised, before being elected, that it would not reduce the size of the Army, the Navy or the Air Force. It has taken measure after measure to reduce the Army, the Navy and the Air Force; yet we live in a world of violence. I have found that many officers in the Army, the Navy and the Air Force have an attitude of complete hopelessness in the present situation. They have said that the position of our defence forces today is one of complete hopelessness. As Vice-Admiral Peek, a retired Chief of the Naval Staff pointed out not so long ago, the Army, Navy and Air Force are losing their irreplaceable trained officers at a rate that has never been known before in Australian history. The reason that those men are leaving the Army, the Navy and the Air Force is that they know the position is hopeless and that nothing will ever be achieved in the defence area with this Government. They feel that they are wasting their time. The result is that in a period when violence reigns throughout the world the Australian Government is reducing every form of defence that we have and is placing Australia in a situation where we are worse off in defence than we were in 1939. 
Like the other honourable senators on this side of the Senate who have spoken, I do not intend to be high-pressured by the Government; neither does the Australian Democratic Labor Party. It has been the custom- almost the normal custom- of the Senate during the 14 or 15 years that I have been a member of it that when Bills are introduced the debate on them is adjourned. Generally, the Government does quite well if they come on for debate a week later. Nobody would have been more determined to enforce that rule than  Senator Murphy.  He always stood up for the rights of the Opposition very strongly until he ceased to be the Leader of the Opposition. The Address-in-Reply debate can be completed by next Tuesday and in the normal way we can go on and dispose of these Bills very quickly by the Wednesday. I see nothing wrong in that. What I see as wrong is that apparently we will spend this session with the guillotine being used in another place to put through vital Bills with about only one-quarter of the clauses having even been looked at or discussed, and the remaining three-quarters of the clauses being passed without any consideration. We will be in the position that the same Bills will be rushed to the Senate and we will be accused of delaying tactics if we do not accept what was done in the other place. I say without hesitation that what is happening in another place at the present time, and the manner in which highly contentious Bills of a revolutionary character affecting the whole economy of this country are being forced through in a couple of hours without any proper consideration, is a disgrace to the Australian Parliament. The people over there who are doing this know it. They know that it is a disgrace to the Australian Parliament that highly contentious Bills, sometimes containing a couple of hundred clauses, are being forced through within a couple of hours. They allow only enough time to debate perhaps 10 per cent of the clauses in a Bill. If that is democratic government, all I can say is God help Australia. 
In this case I want to lay it on the line now that my Party is not prepared to be high-pressured into rushing Bills through without proper consideration, without proper opportunity for members of the public even to express their views and without proper consideration in the normal method of our democratic procedure. The other thing I want to say is this: I want all the threats cut out- the threats and the suggestion that the Government will take a stern view of this, or that the Government will take a tough view of this. I am prepared to move for the adjournment of this debate if the Government wants me to do so, so that  Mr Whitlam  can go over to Government House, see  Sir Paul  Hasluck and obtain approval for the double dissolution with which the Government has threatened us for so long that it has now become a bad joke. I challenge the Government. If it is going to threaten the Senate that if it cannot get its Bills rushed through the Parliament, the only thing for it to do, if it says that it is being frustrated, is to take advantage of what we in the Opposition did last year a number of times, that is, we voted in such a way that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  would have cause to go and see the GovernorGeneral in order to get a double dissolution. Wild horses will not drag the Government to a double dissolution. Do honourable senators know why there will not be a double dissolution in May? It is because the Prime Minister has arranged to tour Europe for 5 weeks in June. There cannot be a double dissolution because of the possibility that he might not have a job and the trip would have to be cancelled. So there will not be a double dissolution. I say to our friends opposite: 'Forget all the threats, forget the highpressuring and forget rushing Bills into one House and then into another. If you feel that the people are with you, go to the people'. I think that  Senator Murphy  was right when he said that the people should decide. Nobody agrees with that statement more than I do, but I say to  Senator Murphy:  'Let the people decide', and the way to let them decide is for the Prime Minister to go immediately to  Sir Paul  Hasluck and seek a double dissolution. 
It has occurred to me and to some members of my Party - 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. It concerns my endeavours to obtain a definition of an Aboriginal. Yesterday the Minister appeared to indicate that there was no precise definition but that it was accepted that an Aboriginal was a person of Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islands descent who accepted the status of an Aboriginal. I now ask: Does this mean, for example that if there are 2 brothers of one-quarter Aboriginal descent and three-quarters white descent, one of whom says he is an Aboriginal and the other says he is not, one is an Aboriginal and one is a white man? 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to make a statement on the same subject. 
I know it is normally accepted that this is a matter on which the leaders of the political parties in this chamber confer and reach agreement. I wish to make it clear that I have not been informed of any intention of the Government to meet this evening. If the leaders of the other parties have met and reached agreement on this matter, I can only say that I am very sorry indeed that I and my Party have been completely ignored. The same thing has happened on other occasions and I have always received apologies afterwards for what has happened. I have always been co-operative in these matters. I can only say that I hope that I will be included in any future discussions between the leaders of the other political parties in this chamber. I and my Party were completely left out of the discussions last session concerning the postal legislation. I would like it to be made clear whether all leaders are to be involved in discussions which are to be held or whether certain leaders are to be excluded. 
I must confess that like a lot of other honourable senators here I am now quite in a fog. A little while ago we were informed that the Leader of the Liberal Party  (Senator Withers)  had decided that we would sit tonight. When I asked the Leader of the Australian Country Party in the Senate  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  whether he was asked about it he said: 'No, I was not asked. I was told.' In my case I was not even asked or told. So I missed out completely. I suppose I am normally of a peace loving disposition although, on one famous occasion,  Senator O  'Byrne said that when I rose and said that I proposed to pour oil on troubled waters I usually poured petrol on the flames. But I am equally in a fog now in regard to this motion.  Senator Murphy  has pleaded most eloquently for action to be taken so that the Government can put its referundum proposals to the people on the day of the election. He said that there are serious time factors involved and that those time factors have to be just right. Today I saw a statement in the Canberra Times' that the Government has had a good look at the matter and is satisfied and confident that the time factors will be just right and; that it has constitutional authority to assure it. How are we to know? 
It is all very well for well informed people like  Senator McAuliffe, Senator Mulvihill  and others to be quite happy about this matter but how am I, when so frequently I am not even informed of these matters of high public moment, to know how to vote or of the way in which we should act in order to fall in with  Senator Murphy's  requirements as to time when he knows the date of the election and I do not? In other words, he says to us: 'Do the Government a good turn. Leap in the dark. ' I think that this is a most extraordinary procedure. I have never heard such a proposition. I have been here 14 years and I have never heard of such a proposition in the history of the Senate. The Government says: 'Look, this is serious. We have to get things to fit in just right for the date of the Senate election.' It says: 'But, of course, we are not going to tell you when that is.' I do not know how anything could be more ridiculous. 
Naturally, I will support what  Senator Withers  is doing because I have an outstanding bump of caution. I will have to turn the other cheek and be with him on this occasion. But I have been interested to see in the Press that at least 2 branches of the Australian Labor Party have implored  Mr Whitlam  not to have the referenda on the day of the Senate election. I understand that one of them is to make a last-minute appeal to him this week. Perhaps I should not say this from the point of view of tactics: But if I were in the Australian Labor Party I would not complicate the Senate election by holding referenda with it. If the Australian Labor Party does this it will blow up in  Mr Whitlam  's face. 
A lot of them think that. I cannot imagine how a leader can ask his Party to go to a Senate election and complicate the position at the same time with a number of measures which can be interpreted as an attack upon the Senate as a States House, an attack upon State rights and an attempt to interfere with the electoral system. 
-No, I am not. But at least I am entitled to say that I agree with some of the most knowledgeable members in your Party who were put on a pedestal for their assistance in winning the Federal election in 1972. They are the people who do not want  Mr Whitlam  to complicate the election. I studied at the feet of former  Senator Kennelly  on these questions of tactics. I learned a lot and I can only say to the members of the Australian Labor Party, as I have said before: If you hold this referendum on the same day as the Senate election it will blow up in your faces. 
It has occurred to the members of my Party that the trend in the discussions on these matters has been to deal to a considerable degree with what might be termed the machinery under which these matters are presented to Parliament. That is only natural. However, we felt that we should refer also to the fact that when the members of the Democratic Labor Party have voted they have borne in mind not only machinery matters but also matters of principle which are affected by resolutions such as this. Therefore because we felt it was important to emphasise that we believe that senators should be given reasonable time to consider these matters before debating and voting on them we determined that we should move an amendment to the motion 'that so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Bill being passed through all stages without delay'. The purpose of our amendment is to emphasise that we are taking our action on grounds not merely of the machinery for dealing with these matters but of the principles which are involved in them. I move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'in the opinion of this Senate, it would be a travesty of constitutional and parliamentary practice if this Bill, which so vitally affects the powers and independence of this Senate, were to be rushed through the parliamentary processes and submitted to the people without the most careful examination. Matters which demand examination include the following propositions- 
The proposal contained in the Bill would destroy the independence of the Senate and thus weaken the Federal structure. 
Six-year terms for senators could be reduced to less than 18 months by mid-term dissolutions of the House of Representatives emanating from internal differences in that House such as occured in 1929, seven months after the first meeting of the House of Representatives. 
Continuity of the Senate would be destroyed because, every time there is a House of Representatives election, 30 senators would go out of office for about 3 months while an election took place. 
Under present arrangements there are always 60 senators and this continuity is a strength. 
If the Senate loses 30 senators for 3 months every time there is a House of Representatives election, the Senate's committee activity could not continue during that period. 
The Senate 's greatest power, be it a reserve power, is to refuse Supply and bring about a single dissolution of the House of Representatives in circumstances where it may be considered that the government's administration is not in the best interests of the country and that they should be sent to the judgment of the people. The Bill would destroy this reserve power because it is proposed that 30 senators be sent to the polls every time there is a House of Representatives election. 
If it is desired to bring the elections for the 2 Houses together, a simple solution is for the House of Representatives to shorten its own term and go to the polls at the next Senate election, due to be held before 30 June 1974.' 
If a seconder is required for the amendment,  Mr Deputy President,  I understand that  Senator Little  is prepared to second it. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  A seconder is required. 
I do not propose to debate extensively the 7 arguments which are put in my amendment because obviously if we carry out the normal practices of the Senate there will be an opportunity to do that later. I merely want to emphasise the seventh point of the amendment. At the time of the Senate election, the Government proposes to intrude into that election a proposal for a constitutional alteration. The Government at no time can claim that it cannot remedy the situation in any other way. This Government has obtained for itself the power to call a double dissolution. It could hold the election consequent upon that double dissolution at the time that it is proposed to hold the election for half of the Senate. If it did that, everything which the Government seeks to achieve through the cumbersome method of a referendum would be achieved. Therefore, I suggest that there is no need for the question to be put to the people, because what the Government is saying to the people, in effect, is this: 'Give us the power to do something that we already have the power to do'. The Government has the power to bring about simultaneous elections now, and it wants to put the people to the expense and trouble of a referendum in order to get the power to do something that it already has the power to do. 
I think these statements of principle are very compelling. I heard  Senator Greenwood,  who led for the Opposition, say that as the position stood the Opposition would be inclined to vote for the motion. But as the situation has changedat the time the Opposition was not aware that this amendment was to be moved- I appeal to Opposition senators in the other parties to give the matter consideration in the light of the amendment. I hope that, having examined these principles, they will determine that this is a better manner in which to deal with the situation and that they will vote for our amendment. 

 Senator Cant made some remarks in regard to the reasons for bringing the elections for the 2 Houses together. He made it perfectly clear that this proposal has been thought up by the Government in the belief that it will assist it to get rid of the small parties and, in particular, the Democratic Labor Party. There is no real desire on the part of the Government to confer a favour or benefit upon the people of Australia. This is one more of the Government's proposals. The latest one is to jack up the deposit that is required to be paid by a person who wants to stand for Parliament. The brains trust is sitting back, thinking up all kinds of proposals to get rid of the small parties and the Democratic Labor Party. 
And the Independents.  Senator Negus  should take note that the people amongst whom he is sitting at the present time have no time for him. They are anxious to bring about a situation in which he will depart from this Parliament, just as they are trying to bring about our departure.  Senator Cant  said that if the House of Representatives and Senate elections were held simultaneously it would probably get rid of the Democratic Labor Party. I have won my seat in the Senate at a time when both Houses have gone to the people simultaneously, and I won it easily. I can appreciate the fact that the brains trust- Mick and Eric and all the other boys- get together and work out all these propositions. But the Democratic Labor Party will face up to elections, whether they are for both Houses or for one House. We will certainly have the courage, whether we win or lose, to face up to a double dissolution; and that cannot be said by the Government. The Government is not game to go to a double dissolution because if a House of Representatives election were held in 6 weeks or 2 months time the Government would be out of office. It is hard to find anybody who is prepared to admit that he voted Labor at the last election. People who voted Labor beat their breasts and say: ' 'Whyever did I do it'? They say to us: 'Give us a chance as soon as possible to get rid of Labor'. 

 Senator Cant talked about the failure, as he put it, of proportional representation. He said that there can be no political stability in the country with proportional representation. I suppose that no State in Australia has had fewer changes of government over the last 40 years than has Tasmania, and it has proportional representation. There is more stability there than probably in any country in the world, and it has proportional representation. Honourable senators should have a look at the results of the first past the post system in Great Britain. In Northern Ireland the Paisleyites have 1 1 of the 12 seats under the first past the post system; whereas on a population basis they would be entitled to perhaps 7 seats. 
I refer, as I often have referred, to the committee of inquiry which included amongst its members Gordon Bryant and the late Sam Cohen. It was set up by the Victorian branch of the Australian Labor Party to inquire into all electoral systems. It came to the conclusion that the electoral system which gave justice and which was best for all parties and for the Australian Labor Party was proportional representation. Sam Cohen and Gordon Bryant could not be described as fans of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. I read an eloquent statement by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  made the other day to the Henry George League in South Australia. He told that organistion that in his view the only electoral system which would give this country electoral justice would be proportional representation.  Senator McLaren  knows that Clyde Cameron made that speech. Everywhere Clyde Cameron goes he says that there is only one just system and that is proportional representation. Of course, the Labor Party does not want a just system. It wants a system by which firstly it can win, and secondly, the DLP will be wiped out. That is what the Labor Party wants. I do not think its members ought ever talk about democratic representation or about electoral justice because they do not believe in these things. 
The Labor Party believes in the electoral system by which it will win. For that reason it is putting up this proposition to bring the elections together, not that too many honourable senators on the Government side in their hearts believe in it. I would like to see a conscience vote in the ranks of the Australian Labor Party on this proposal which could affect the tenure of office of a number of them. I would love to see a conscience vote on the Government side but, of course, in this case honourable senators have to do what they are told. The result is that we get this proposition which is just one of a number of blatant propositions to get rid of the small parties. What we have is a system where the political  Mr Bigs  will not tolerate a small party. In the same way the Government in its legislation is moving to get rid of the small farmer and the small businessman. It is the Party of the political  Mr Bigs.  I conclude by expressing the wish that the other Opposition parties, when they examine the reasons we give here as statements of principle, will be inclined to support us on this matter. The general six or seven statements will be debated in the normal course of events, without undue haste or frenzy, when this matter comes before the Senate. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that military forces of the People's Republic of China recently seized the Paracel Islands from South Viet-Nam. 
Did the People's Republic of China indicate that it would act in a similar manner against the Spratly Islands, which lie hundreds of miles south of China and are close to Sabah and Sarawak; if so, is the Government's apparent confidence that the Chinese Government is a peace-loving one disturbed. 
Do the actions of the People's Republic of China indicate that it is ready to use force to realise its political objectives. 
What steps, if any, have been taken by the Australian Government to protest to the People's Republic of China and/or to raise this matter in the United Nations Organisation. 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. My question relates to an unsavoury new development in journalism in this countrypages of advertisements in certain weekly newspapers seeking clients for brothels, massage parlours and related establishments and seeking partners for homosexuals, lesbians and certain types of perversion. I ask: Are these papers registered to pass through the mail? Does the Government believe that they should be registered by the Postmaster-General to be sent through the mail? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government. Are Yes and No cases to be issued in the accustomed manner for the proposed referenda on constitutional alterations? Is the Government using the advantage of knowing the date on which the referenda will be put in order to give its experts ample time to prepare a Yes case? How much time will the Government give to the Opposition to prepare the No case? Will the Government give an assurance that it will give adequate time for the No case to be prepared? 
I recall that prior to the last election when his Party became the Government,  Mr Whitlam  made a statement that he had to admit that there was a vein of authoritarianism inside the Labor Party. That vein of authoritarianism has been illustrated by the fact that we now have in Australia a government which for the first time in history has decided to tell Australians whom they can play sport against and whom they cannot play sport against. I refer to the announcement that the Lawn Tennis Association of Australia has been pressured by the Government and told that it should not send a team of women to South Africa to play tennis. A statement that I heard tonight is to the effect that this organisation- a voluntary organisation which in my view is not subject to Government dictation- has been instructed that this tour should not take place. I regret the fact that it did not tell the Government that voluntary sport is controlled by the people who run the sport and not by governments. They have pointed out that should South Africa win through to the finals of the Davis Cup, under that ruling Australia would have to forfeit the Davis Cup by not playing against South Africa. 

 - Mr President, I ask for leave to make a statement on a matter concerned with the question of communication between the Government and leaders of Opposition parties in the Senate. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party has a particular interest in this matter. There is no open government in Australia. The date of the election is a secret. When the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  intends to go to the Governor-General to get the certificate for the referenda is a secret. 
Whether he will ask for a double dissolution is a secret. Everything is a secret under open government. We are not to be told whether there will be a period in which senators can campaign.' We are denied any knowledge as to whether the Government intends to keep the Senate sitting. Is it the intention of the Government to keep here the 5 DLP senators, particularly the 3 who will be fighting for their seats, while the Senate campaign is conducted by members of the House of Representatives and by State parliamentarians who are members of the Government Party? Is that the proposal? If the Government suggests that it proposes not to permit the Senate to rise for an adequate period to allow senators to put their case before the people, this Party will be one which will not shrink from voting to ensure that the Senate rises for an adequate period. It is for other parties to determine their point of view, but if the Government proposes to deny Senators Kane, Byrne and Little the opportunity to campaign and to defend their seats and if the Government proposes to keep them here while other people do the campaigning, the DLP, if nobody else does, will move that the Senate rise for an adequate period. 
-Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party) (2.21)- The Democratic Labor Party has already indicated that it will give a speedy passage to benefit Bills, that is, Bills of the social services type which are designed to benefit members of the community. Therefore when we vote for a motion such as this we do so only for this reason. During lunch I was thinking of an old poem that related to affairs between Britain and Holland in the 19th century, the words of which began: 
In mattersof commerce the fault of the Dutch Is offering too little and asking too much. 
I think it has perfect application to the way the Government is trying to conduct the affairs of the Senate at present. I think it is bewildering. One minute we are told 'This Bill must come up', then we are told 'No- some other Bill must come forward'. Then we are told 'We want to make a special arrangement here'; then we are told 'We want to make a special arrangement there'. I would say that the present organisation of the passage of business through the Senate under present conditions could only be described as a shambles. In 14 years in the Senate I have never before known a situation where people were so many times unaware of what was being done or where they were going. Even members of the Government whom I have at times asked what is going on say 'We do not know; we cannot find out either'. 
I think it is appalling that the Government cannot organise its affairs better than it is at present. Look at the present situation regarding the number of Bills we have been considering. The Leader of the Government has pleaded for consideration from the Opposition on the ground that for constitutional and other reasons he may have to fit in with time schedules. He said these are important matters, that time schedules must be observed and he has asked us to facilitate his dealing with the matters. He has asked us to organise them on certain lines. Then, when we say to him 'What are the times?', the reply that we get is 'We are not going to let you fellows know the date of the election '. 
Only the other day I was approached with a request about a certain Bill; it was made clear that the Government had certain matters in view for the consideration of this Bill and that it would like us to help with respect to the date when it would be given consideration. I said 'Surely you are able to give us some idea of the organisation of the business; what you propose to do. What are the dates that you want us to oblige you on?' Again I was told 'We are not going to tell you a thing'. In other words we are being asked by the Government to help it, to offer it every possible consideration to fit in with certain time schedules- but that under no circumstances will it tell us what those times will be. I describe that as farcical. There is no other term to describe what is going on at present than 'farcical', for we are asked to fit in with time schedules and the Government denies us any knowledge of what they will be. 
I think it is rather mean and contemptible of the Government to be holding out on this question of the date of the election. We all know that this is a matter of plain unscrupulous tactics. The 
Government knows that for the organisation of a party's electoral campaign that party has to organise publicity and to obtain dates. These days you cannot go to a television or radio company and say: 'I want to book some time for the election', for when they say 'When is the election coming on' and you say 'I do not know', they laugh you out of the place. You have to book time 2 months ahead. What is happening is that the Government is giving advantages to its own political machine. It knows the date of the election. It is able to book halls and radio and television time. It is unworthy of a decent government to be acting in the way that it is to obtain advantages for itself. It indicates, in my view, as I said before, a total disregard of the normal courtesies that one associates with Parliament and with the Senate. 
I have already spoken about the lack of communication. To try to get any information out of this Government on its intentions is like trying to get blood out of a stone. I sometimes wonder whether Government supporters themselves know. Perhaps I am unfair to them. They do not know where they are going. The whole business of the Parliament is being organised on a day to day basis. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is so far out of the country when he ought to be here supervising the passage of the country's business through the Parliament that when I was in Western Australia for an election campaign the other day, one of the pleas being made by people in the community was for Australia to have a resident Prime Minister. 
I do not think we are lucky. The Government is acting in a hole and corner manner. Here is a Government that said We believe in open government'. What has happened? The Government knows when the election will be held, lt is organising its campaign and seizing every possible advantage for itself, and it thinks that there is something shrewdly tactical in denying knowledge to the rest of the Parliament, which any honourable, decent and courageous government would give to us right away. On the other hand I think that we in the Opposition Parties have been too long-suffering. I honestly think that we have now reached the stage where we have to jack up. If the Labor Party had been in opposition in similar circumstances it would have jacked up long ago. If it had had the numbers it would never have given to the Government in power the co-operation that this Government has received; it would have jacked up immediately and said: 'We refuse to go on unless you come into the open and tell us exactly how the business is to be organised and essential matters such as the date of the Senate election'. 
As I have already said, the fault is on the Opposition side for tolerating this sort of treatment. I think that if we are prepared to tolerate it that is what will happen. The numbers are on this side. In my view it is past time that the Opposition parties made a stand and said to the Government: Either you run this House of Parliament like a Senate; or, if you are not prepared to run it like a Senate- that is, to organise your business and to let us know what you are going to do- we will have to take over and organise the business and make this House resemble something like a businesslike organisation'. The present position is an absolute scandal. All sorts of things happen. I will not refer again to the matter I raised this morning, namely, the cavalier manner in which the Governor-General is treated whereby instructions are given to carry out certain things before he has even given his authorisation. There are any number of other factors which must cause anybody interested in the proper functioning of Parliament the gravest disquiet. But, as I said before, I blame the Government for the poor management of this House today, with all kinds of sporadic decisions and changes of mind and intention, including changes in the times that this Senate is to meet. The whole organisation of this Senate today can only be described as a shambles. But I will blame the Opposition Parties if they accept this kind of thing in future and if they accept a situation that they can be told one thing at 1 1 o'clock in the morning, something entirely different at 2 o'clock in the afternoon and something entirely different again at 3 o'clock in the afternoon. The Government ought to settle down, determine what it intends to do and then do it. It should not be in the position of changing its mind every 5 minutes. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the exact status of  Dr H.  C. Coombs in relation to the Australian Council for the Arts. 
2 ) What emoluments does he receive in respect of this capacity. 
) What are the names of the permanent and temporary officers in the Council. 
What are the terms of their appointment, and their salaries and allowances. 

 - Mr President, I desire to ask a question which, subject to your ruling, I think I would like to be answered both by yourself and by the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I ask you: Is  Senator Gair,  in your view, a member of the Senate? I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: In his view, is  Senator Gair  a member of the Senate? 
I wish to ask a supplementary question,  Mr President.  Would you give a ruling as to what is the position of  Senator Gair,  when you say that he is a member of the Senate and the Leader of the Government in the Senate says that he is not a member of the Senate? 
I feel that it is necessary to make this statement because of one of the most extraordinary sets of circumstances concerning a parliament of which I have ever heard, a set of circumstances that should be carefully examined to determine if what has happened constitutes a prostitution of the processes of government. We have been informed that  Senator Gair  was appointed Ambassador to Ireland on 14 March. No statement was made to that effect then; but we are told that because he indicated acceptance that he then became the Ambassador. A few weeks ago  Sir John  Kerr indicated his acceptance of the position of Governor-General. Is  Sir John  Kerr the Governor- General of the Commonwealth of Australia? According to the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy),  he is. The position which is being put forward appears to me to be an attempt at a bogus back-dating of appointment of the  Senator to  deceive the Parliament and to anticipate what may be said in certain legal proceedings to come. I spoke to  Senator Gair  last night about this matter and at that time  Senator Gair  was under the impression that he was a member of the Senate, because when I said to him, 'When do you cease to be a member of the Senate?', he said, 'Tomorrow, when I hand in my resignation'.  Senator Gair  further said, when I asked him when had he taken up the appointment, that he would take up the appointment when it became vacant, about June. So we have the extraordinary position: The Government says that it appointed  Senator Gair  to a position of office and profit under the Crown and  Senator Gair  did not know that he had been appointed to the position and was left believing that he was a senator until yesterday. Yesterday  Senator Gair  came into the Senate and voted.  Senator Murphy  was sitting in front of him.  Senator Murphy  has said that he knew that  Senator Gair  was no longer a senator.  Senator Murphy  has said that  Senator Gair  ceased to be a senator on 14 March. Yet the Leader of the Government sat in his place and watched the man whom he said was not a senator come before the Senate and vote. That was an insult to you,  Mr President.  You had not been informed of the Government's attitude. It was an insult to the Senate and, in my view, should be examined by a royal commission because I believe that we are faced today with a definite prostitution of the processes of government. If the Attorney-General knew that  Senator Gair  was not a senator, why did he allow him to vote? The answer is that  Senator Gair  believed he was a senator; he knew he was a senator. I regard the backdating of the appointment to 14 March with suspicion and, in my view, we have in Australia today another Watergate. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner the Senate was debating an adjournment motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  for the purpose of discussing a matter of urgency which expresses alarm at the reduction in the defences of Australia which has taken place since the present Government took office. The Australian Democratic Labor Party, which continually has drawn attention to this steady reduction in our defence forces, associates itself with the motion. We support it to the full because we believe that one of the most disturbing features of the tenure of office of the Whitlam Government has been the manner in which it has set to work to white ant and to reduce to complete ineffectiveness the defences of our country.  Mr Whitlam  attempted in his policy speech to suggest that defence after all was not very important. He said that in his view defence need not worry us for about 10 years, perhaps 15 years, but that in spite of that fact he would see to it that the defences of Australia were maintained as they should be. That promise has been broken. 
If we examine the statements made in recent weeks by former commanders of our Army, former commanders of our Navy and former commanders of the Royal Australian Air Force, they tell us that in this day and age, a period of the greatest violence that the world has ever known, the Whitlam Government has steadily reduced the forces of this country to a state of complete ineffectiveness. In spite of the fact that the Government said that it would maintain the level of preparedness of our forces we find that there has been a reduction in the money available to the forces, in spite of the fact that the money made available has been reduced in value by gross inflation. 
What do we have today? We have an Army which has been reduced to ineffectiveness, a Navy which has been reduced to ineffectiveness, an Air Force which has been reduced to ineffectiveness and a Department of Supply which could not adequately maintain Australia's forces in being. We are told that a number of the ships in the Navy are restricted to the degree that they can sail because it is necessary to conserve fuel. We are told that Air Force planes are not to be permitted to fly except on a limited number of occasions because it is desired to save money for other purposes. The Army has been reduced to the stage that today it has only about 30,000 men, and we who are on the Senate Committee which is inquiring into the Australian Army have been told that with 25,000 of those personnel required for other duties only 5,000 men would be availale in the event of hostilities. The circumstances therefore are that while  Mr Whitlam  periodically asserts that Australia ought to be isolationist, he goes to the United States of America and pleads for the ANZUS Treaty and says that Australia will not be isolationist. With a force of 5,000 men Australia could never be anything but isolationist. 
What is the danger of this isolationist policy? We are engaged in a treaty- the ANZUS Treaty- which we regard as the backbone of our defence arrangements. One of the provisions of that Treaty is that mutual assistance shall be given by those who belong to it. We are not in a position to give mutual assistance because our Army has been reduced to such a degree that at the present time we are free-loading on the ANZUS Treaty. We are free-loading because we are not in a position, as a result of the reduction of our armed forces by the Whitlam Government, to make any contribution to that Treaty. It is supposed to be a mutual defence treaty; not one where Australia seeks all the advantages and refuses to accept any of the responsibilities. 
What is happening today? In many of the places where we should be preparing our defences, such as Cockburn Sound and other areas, we find that cobwebs are to be seen and that there is little action. I would say that at the present time we are steadily advancing towards a situation when it will be very difficult to obtain the manpower to provide firing parties for the funerals of any of Australia's generals. The whole situation is appalling. The best testimony about it is what is happening in the case of officers and non-commissioned officers who, of course, by virtue of their training, are almost irreplaceable. The number of officers retiring in disgust from the Services is attaining the proportions of a flood. The number of non-commissioned officers who are getting out is almost of the same proportion. When one asks those men why they are getting out of Australia's forces they say that they trained for the forces as a career and are finding that they are completely disheartened. There is a shortage of manpower. There is a shortage of equipment. There is a complete lack of sympathy with the armed forces on the part of the Government whose attitude towards our Army, Navy and Air Force seems to be: How much more can we screw out of them to spend on other things such as ' Blue Poles '. 
I belong to a Party which always has been very defence conscious. In every election from the time our Party was established we have said that the defence and security of the country ought to be a primary issue. In the last election, regrettably, the attitude was taken up by people not only on the side of the Australian Labor Party but also by some people who previously were sitting on the then Government side that Australia could look forward to 10 years during which she need not do anything about defence. The attitude was then taken up in the election that defence was not an issue. That was one of the greatest mistakes that has ever been made by the Australian people. They allowed themselves to be fooled into accepting that point of view. 
One of the matters which the DLP brought forward with considerable force was the situation in the Indian Ocean. We pointed to the fact that the British fleet was leaving the Indian Ocean. Along with its departure came the arrival of a large Russian submarine fleet. In addition, Russian squadrons were to be found making their way through the Indian Ocean, carrying out observations and taking depths. In the case of the route around the Cape of Good Hope, they were placing direction finders in the sea. At that time, when we suggested that this was serious and ought to be attended to, we were scolded by the Press. We  were  accused by the Australian Labor Party of being warmongers. The ALP said that there was no possible danger and that nobody ought to bother about the Indian Ocean. What is the position today? What the DLP said has been vindicated. We said at that time that the major oil routes of the world went through the Indian Ocean and the dominance of the Indian Ocean by any one country such as the Soviet Union could result in those oil routes being blockaded and other countries being blackmailed into submission. That was not believed but it is believed now when the world has had a lesson about what happens when the oil routes are blocked. At the present time the situation has become so serious that the United States of America and Great Britain have agreed to the establishment of a base at Deigo Garcia facing the bases which the Soviet Union has acquired from some of the eastern countries. I would have thought, bearing in mind that 46 per cent of our trade goes around the Cape of Good Hope and that we are, therefore, in a position where we must look to the security of the Indian Ocean, that the Australian Government would have welcomed the establishment of that base. Instead we have a mean and contemptible attack upon the United States and Great Britain for taking an action which is to our advantage. There appears to be a complete lack of concern on the part of our Government, a dislike of the word 'defence', and a determination to reduce our defences to the degree that Australia will be unable to play its part in world affairs. 
I believe that in Australia we have to spend more money and produce self-reliant defences which will enable us to say to our treaty supporters or our treaty friends that we are in a position, and we will be in a position, to play our part if the time of responsibility comes. We do not have self-reliant defences now. I had the honour of moving a motion calling for a committee of the Senate to inquire into the state of our Army. I was a member of that committee for a considerable period and what impressed me was the number of men, experts in the field of defence, who came before us and said that the plans of the present Government to defend this country were completely inadequate and that should there be trouble Australia's security would be gravely endangered. We are in a serious situation today. In the Indian Ocean north of Australia we have the testimony of the South-East Asian countries that there is a grave danger today of insurgency, a grave danger of subversion. Not only are there dangers there. In the Pacific where there are new emerging countries there is the opportunity for some countries whose interests are not ours to make overtures to those emerging countries for the purpose of establishing bases. Let me point out that right throughout South-East Asia there are guerrilla forces supplied and countenanced by Communist China. Communist China admits it. A Thai diplomat told me that when one of his own country's principal ministers went to Peking to discuss with the Chinese the insurgency and subversion movement on their borders which is supported and financed by China, he asked Chou En-lai whether China would agree to stop interfering in his country's affairs. Chou En-lai said: 'We promise willingly not to interfere in your affairs'. When he said that, the diplomat said: 'Well, I must thank you very much. I presume you will no longer countenance the National Liberation Front'. Chou En-lai said: 'Helping a National Liberation Front is not interference '. 
In every one of those South-East Asian countries today there is a Communist sponsored guerrilla organisation which seeks subversion and which, in doing so, is a threat to the future of this country. What is being done about it by our 
Government? It is seeking to withdraw our forces, the forces with which at least we say to some of these countries: 'We are interested in your security'. The Government is adopting the attitude that so far as Australia is concernd we will expect American support through ANZUS. The Government will expect other countries to help us in the event of war but we will be free loaders completely. We will do nothing to play our part. If this Government's attitude towards the Army, Navy and Air Force is satisfactory why is it that officers and non-commissioned officers are leaving in hundreds? 
-Senator Bishop should speak to the officers who have commanded those forces and who not so long ago retired. They will tell him that the present position is so dangerous that the future security of this country is in a very parlous state. 
If  Senator Murphy  had earlier used some of the conciliatory language which he employed in the last few sentences of his speech I think that we might have listened with more sympathy to what he had to say. I commence my remarks by saying that I object to being lectured on morality and ethics by the Attorney-General and Minister for Customs and Excise  (Senator Murphy)  who claimed, with honest pride, a major part in what has been done in the last few days in the appointment of an ambassador to Ireland. Like  Senator Murphy,  I believe in public decency. But I would expect that a person who wants a appeal to the public decency of others would try to set an example himself. The trouble with the legislation of this Government is that it is legislation in haste. 
Whatever  Senator Murphy  says about this Bill, all last year we had, to use the classical expression, Ossa piled on Pelion. We had Bill after Bill brought into the Senate from another place. Where it is the normal practice of the Government to betray every decent democratic principle by not only guillotining Bills of no importance or little importance but also guillotining Bills which in many cases are of the utmost importance. Bills of a revolutionary character are treated in a way that allows only a few of the clauses to be dealt with in the very brief time that is allocated for discussion. Then the axe falls. These bills of tremendous importance are forced through the other place with perhaps three quarters of the clauses not even being considered. What are we to say of a Government which uses its numbers in another place in that way and which continually complains of the manner in which legislation is treated in the Senate? What does the AttorneyGeneral think of the way in which legislation is treated in the other place? It is churned through the mill by the continuous use of the guillotine. It is churned through the other place by a Leader of the House who regards it as a joke to rise in the House and say: 'I am introducing this Bill now. In 4 hours it will be passed through the Parliament, whether or not the Parliament has had a look at most of the clauses'. 
I make no apology for the fact that, because I have a sense of responsibility and because I belong to a small and overworked Party we have to take our time in our consideration of these matters. Are we to churn the Bills through the other place in a couple of hours and then churn them through the Senate in a similar manner? What about this original Bill that  Senator Murphy  has introduced? He brings it before the 
Senate now and says that he has 109 amendments. He found 109 things that are no good. He set to work to remedy the mistakes. Then he introduces the amendments and says that any lawyer could run through these in 3 or 4 hours. I am not going to run through them in 3 or 4 hours. I am not a lawyer. I want to get advice and I am going to take my time over it. We hear charges that the Senate is holding up legislation. Does not the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  glory every time he gets on a public platform? My word, he does glory. I have never known a better glorier than he. Every time he is on the platform he says that the Senate is blocking his legislation, and obstructing his efforts to bring paradise into Australia in 5 minutes. Then he says that one of the glories of his Ministry is that it has passed a record number of Bills in the history of the Australian Parliament. In other words, when it suits him he says that we are blocking the legislation and when it suits him differently he says that we are putting through a record number of Bills. 
I invite honourable senators to look at the figures. We control this House. We do not have to work hard here but we have worked harder, although we can determine how long the Senate sits, than any other Senate since 1919. This is the record of the Senate that is accused of holding up the Government, of blocking it and doing all sorts of things to it, but we have sat longer than any other Senate since 1919. We have increased the sitting hours. We have sat longer than any Senate since 1919 and all we get for it is abuse. Members of the Labor Party are running around the country saying: 'We cannot get our legislation through. These people are absolutely holding up Paradise. ' And what is the situation? We are working harder than any Senate has worked for nearly 60 years and have passed a record number of Bills in the history of Australia. 
I regard all this criticism as so much nonsense. As we were crossing the floor for a division tonight  Senator Murphy  said to me: 'You promised that you would deal with it tonight'. I said: 'When did I make that promise?' He said: Last year.' He came to me and wanted me to rush some of this legislation through and I said no. I said that I thought it ought to be looked at. I said: 'We will have a look at it next year. We will agree to have a look at it next year.'  Senator Murphy  did not come to me in the last couple of days about this legislation. I admit that he has been very busy fixing up diplomatic appointments. Naturally he is busy with those appointments. I knocked mine back, but in the course of fixing up other diplomatic appointments he has been very busy.  Senator Murphy  did not have the courtesy to come to me and say: 'Look, I want to bring this Bill on now. ' 

 - Senator Milliner says that he does not trust me. I would not expect him to trust me. As far as  Senator Murphy  is concerned, he would do a lot better if he did not ignore people. He would do a lot better if he would let us know in good time which legislation is coming on. I know that some of his own supporters are in a fog half the time, wondering what he is going to bring on next or do next. He dances from one item to another like a butterfly going from flower to flower. Instead of having an orderly procession of legislation through this place all we get is something jammed in here and something jammed in there. He hops around like an Irish leprechaun from mushroom to mushroom. I say to  Senator Murphy  that I believe there is everything to be said for careful consideration of legislation. I believe that the Government's troubles arise from the fact that it is giving the Parliament legislative indigestion. We are jammed with Bills and every day they flow in like that. How can any party, particularly a small party, cope with this kind of procedure? I tell  Senator Murphy  and his colleagues that if there was a little more co-operation, a little less abuse and a little less imagining that because the Government can use standover tactics in the other place it can use them here we would all get on very much better. 
I do not know who is doing the standing over. My definition of standover tactics would be when one party endeavours to arrange the membership of another party. That would be one kind of standover tactic. Another kind of standover tactic that I think ought to be looked at is that which says that a man is not a member of the Senate and then admits that for 3 weeks he has been sitting in the Senate, has voted in 9 divisions, has had all his expenses paid by the Parliament- by this Government- and then there is the claim by the Government that he has not been a member of the Parliament for the whole period. What is he doing in here under the eyes of the Leader of the Government in the Senate who knows he is not a member and then takes no action? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General and it refers to a statement which I heard not long ago made by the Prime Minister that  Senator Gair  resigned on 1 4 March, or  Senator Gair  ceased to be a senator on 14 March. The Prime Minister added that  Senator Murphy,  knowing that in the view of the Government  Senator Gair  was no longer a senator, endeavoured to dissuade  Senator Gair  from coming into the Senate.  Senator Gair  insisted. He participated in the proceedings. He voted in 9 divisions. He spoke on 2 occasions. All the time, the Prime Minister said,  Senator Murphy  knew that  Senator Gair  was not a  Senator. This  obviously means that  Senator Murphy  - 
(Victoria- Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party)- by leave- I desire, on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party, to be associated with the statement of condolence to the French Government. I met M. Pompidou in France 2 years ago. He was a man of great personal charm and obviously of very great ability. He piloted his country through a period of considerable difficulty following the retirement of the late General Charles de Gaulle. France and the world generally owe a great debt of gratitude for the degree of stability he brought to that great country. We associate ourselves with the motion. 
For many years I have been a student of political tactics and strategy. I studied at the feet of 2 very eminent professors in this field. One was former  Senator Kennelly  and the other was  Mr Fred 
Riley, the secretary of the Manufacturing Grocers Union in Victoria. One thing that they taught me can be summed up in a common expression- 'when you're done you're done'.  Mr Riley  frequently used this statement: 'When you are beaten you crawl into a cave, lick your wounds and come out and fight on some other occasion'. I think that the Government would be well advised to accept that advice. What it ought to do is to cut its losses. It ought to say: 'All right, we have been done'. What it ought to do is to say that there will be 5 senators to be elected in Queensland, and go on from there. All this backing and filling, all this twisting and turning, does not get it anywhere. It increases the public contempt into which its manoeuvres have taken it. My advice- the Government will not accept it- is this: Accept the situation; forget all the talk about court cases and everything else and let the people decide. The people are going to decide. 
One thing that has interested me is the number of people who wanted to claim the credit on the morning after the first big event. I read in the newspapers that  Mr Whitlam  had been responsible for this masterly political stroke. I read that  Senator Murphy  had been responsible for it. I read that  Senator O  'Byrne had been responsible for it. I have seen that  Senator Wheeldon  has been accused of being responsible for it, but he has emphatically denied - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
I point out that the sentence which I was not allowed to complete was that  Senator Wheeldon  had been accused of being in it but  Senator Wheeldon  had told me that he had nothing to do with it. I suggest that our friend,  Senator McLaren,  be a little more careful before jumping up with points of order. We have been told that Mick Young was responsible for this masterly political stroke; that Eric Walsh was responsible for it; and that a character named Hogan, who has been hanging around Parliament House in their company and who I understand is on the verge of being appointed to  Mr Whitlam  's strategic and elections operations secretariat, had a lot to do with it. But that was on the first morning. All of a sudden, when the news came through of what had happened in Queensland, nobody wanted to own the unwanted baby; everybody was trying to leave it on somebody else's doorstep. 
I am interested in this office of strategy and election tactics which has been set up by  Mr Whitlam  and which is being paid ibr by the Commonwealth. It appears to have some interesting functions. One of the functions of Messrs Young and Walsh is to conduct a salon of an evening between 5 o'clock and 6 o'clock, in a place frequented by members of the Press at that period, where hospitality is freely available and advice is freely available on how they should write the stories. Everybody knows the way it is done: 'Come in, have a drink. You should not be writing that this way. This is the way you ought to write it'. There are delicate suggestions that if they do the right thing- and pressmen have got diplomatic appointments abroad- pressmen will be given free trips abroad on the two 707 aircraft that are to be bought for the purposes of the Prime Minister. I appreciate that this is an extraordinary kind of operation, but the attitude appears to be that this office of strategy and election tactics was justified in the last election when it nobbled an eminent ecclesiastic and that it is justified by its organisation of libel cases against the propaganda of the Democratic Labor Party at election times. Now it has entered into the field of diplomatic appointments. Who knows which of us may not secretly have a diplomatic appointment at the present time. 
I know.  Senator Murphy  said in his speech yesterday: 
If one cared to look carefully into the matter one would probably find previous occasions, although not rarely, when there has been a vacation of office under the relevant sections of the Constitution. In the normal run of things the person has resigned from the Senate, and no one has worried about looking closely at when offers were made, what was done about them and when the post actually became vacant, because it was immaterial. 
My God! Fancy the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  saying that it is immaterial at what time a person resigned to accept an office of profit under the Crown. It is immaterial; it does not matter. People may be here, he says, who have accepted an office of profit under the Crown and are disqualified as senators. He says: 'Why worry about it? It has happened before today'. I am in a difficult position. How do I know that when my friend  Senator Wheeldon  is speaking and voting in the Senate he may not have been appointed as the first Australian Ambassador to North Vietnam? How do I know whether other senators may have received appointments? How do I know that 

 Senator Georges has not secretly been appointed  chairman  of the Turtles Board? How do I know that some of my other friends have not received appointments, for example, that  Senator McLaren  has not been appointed in charge of the Egg Board? According to the Leader of the Government in the Senate it is not a matter to worry about, that secretly a member of this Senate may have been given an office of profit under the Crown. If it is not anything to worry about, had not the Senate better close up shop? We do not know who is a senator and who is not. That is the opinion of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. He placed it on record this afternoon that it was none of his business if he knew that a man who was not a senator was voting in this place. 

 - Senator Murphy said he had no responsibility to inform people that  Senator Gair  was not a senator. He admitted that he had informed  Senator Gair  that he was not a senator. He admitted that he told  Senator Gair  that he was not qualified to come here and vote. Yet he admits that he sat in his chair and saw  Senator Gair  vote.  Senator Gair  voted in 9 divisions in the period when  Senator Murphy  said he was no longer a senator. He watched turn do that and says that as Leader of the Government in the Senate he had no obligation to stop him or inform the  President. Senator Murphy  also says that as Attorney-General, the man who is supposed to look after the laws of this country, he sat in his place and watched a gross breach of the law happen and did not regard himself as having any responsibility to do anything about it. This is a matter that has to be taken further. Can the Senate tolerate - 
-No. The other matter may go to the High Court but the matter of  Senator Murphy's  conduct is a matter which has to be considered by the appropriate tribunal. Here we have a case where the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth, the Leader of the Government, says straight out that it has happened before and can happen again.  Senator Murphy's  view is that because the Government does not choose to notify the Senate or the people that a person has been appointed to an office of profit under the Crown, he has no obligation to stop that person from coming into this Senate, acting as a senator, receiving emoluments from the Government and doing all the things a senator is supposed to do- at a time when he is breaking the law and doing those things which are an insult to this Parliament. I express my regret. I think that the  President  of this Senate was insulted by the Whitlam Government when he was not informed by the Whitlam Government that it had made an appointment which in its view disqualified a person from being a member of this Senate. I think the Senate has to defend its rights in this matter. It has to defend its prestige. If this kind of conduct is to be tolerated then the Senate should be abolished. Unless we can rely on the Leader of the Government in the Senate and on Ministers of the Crown to defend the rights, privileges and honour of the Senate, where are we? We were told by  Senator Murphy  when I asked the first question today that  Senator Gair  ceased to be a senator on 14 March.  Senator Murphy  has now qualified that and said that  Senator Gair  ceased to be a senator on 2 1 March. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee),  who should know, has told us today in definite terms that  Senator Gair  occupied his official position as from yesterday. 
I accept the correction. What he said was that he was an AmbassadorDesignate, which makes worse the position from the Government's point of view because the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that he is not the Ambassador. If that is so, what is the purpose of taking a case to the High Court when the relevant Minister who has the right of issuing the document appointing  Senator Gair  says that  Senator Gair  was appointed by him yesterday as Ambassador-Designate and not as an Ambassador. No wonder an eminent law professor last night said that in this matter the position of the Government was preposterous. We have been told that  Senator Gair  was appointed as from 14 March. A document was sent out at the wish of the Government on about 21 March or so, or later for all I know, asking the States to prepare for the election of senators. I am advised that in the case of Queensland  Mr Bjelke-Petersen's  Government was asked to arrange for 5 senators to be elected.  Senator Murphy  claims that prior to that document going out  Senator Gair  was not a senator. That means that there were 6 vacancies, if his view is accepted. Can honourable senators understand anybody trying to bolster up a case by that kind of nonsense? The Government sent out its own document saying that there were 5 vacancies and 5 senators to be elected. The senator himself says that at the time the document was sent out there were actually 6 vacancies. Fancy the High Court being asked to listen to that kind of tommy rot. 
We were told that  Senator Gair  was appointed on 14 March. Now the Government has shifted ground. He was appointed on 2 1 March, according to some. The Minister who has the right to appoint  Senator Gair  says that he is only a designate, he is not even appointed yet and that he was only made designate yesterday. I believe  Senator Gair  who says that as far as he is concerned he ceased to be a senator yesterday. After all, he used his parliamentary office as a senator until Tuesday. He came to and went from Canberra on his transport vouchers as a senator. He used the car which he is allotted as a senator. He collected the allowance paid for being in Canberra and he collected his salary. In addition, I believe he told me the truth when I saw him on Tuesday night to ask him not to accept the position. He told me that he could not do what I asked him because he said that he was committed. I said to him: 'When are you ceasing to be a senator?' He said: 'Tomorrow, Wednesday, when I hand in my resignation'. When I asked him when he would become Ambassador he said: 'In June, because the position does not become vacant until then'. 
I appreciate the frankness of  Senator Willesee  who took the action to cut the Gordian knot when he made it clear that as far as he was concerned, as Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Senator Gair  did not become Ambassador to Eire, that he has not yet become the Ambassador to Eire.  Senator Willesee  disagreed entirely with the recital of dates that was given to us by  Senator Murphy.  In regard to the papers that we have been given  Senator Murphy  was careful to qualify himself and say that he was not prepared to go on record as saying that all the papers had come to us. I think he was very wise. 
I think he was very wise to qualify any admission there. Surely when a man is appointed an ambassador or an ambassador designate for this country there is a document which places on record the offer and the acceptance. I challenge this Government to produce the offer and the acceptance in writing. I say emphatically that there must be an offer and an acceptance in writing, and I challenge the Government to produce it. I ask categorically: Has it not been produced because it contains the date of acceptance? That is something that any honourable government must answer. I ask the Government to be honourable and to answer it. 
I heard the Prime Minister of this country, who should be an authority, say in another place that  Senator Murphy  had warned  Senator Gair  not to come into the Senate. It is an extraordinary situation when the Attorney-General, a Government leader, knows that an individual is breaking the law and that he is doing something which is a dreadful and shameful breach of parliamentary practices, privileges and traditions, and the Attorney-General does nothing about it. Surely he should have told the Prime Minister. Perhaps he did. Perhaps he told Eric Walsh or Mick Young. Perhaps he told  Mr Hogan.  But whom did he tell? He did not tell anybody. He recognised no obligation to inform the  President  of the Senate that a non-senator in his view was speaking and voting. What is the effect upon the proceedings. Are the proceedings of those 3 weeks invalid? Did we spend 3 weeks wasting our time because the Leader of the Government had secret knowledge which he decided not to make available? That is the point which I should like answered. Is everything that has been done in the Senate over the last few weeks invalid because a person participated in the proceedings of the Senate whom the Leader of the Government, the Attorney-General, says was not qualified? I believe that we have to ask the Government, or we have to take steps ourselves, to ensure that a procedure is formulated under which, when the Commonwealth appoints any person who is a member of Parliament to an office of profit under the Crown, the  President  of the Senate shall immediately be notified. I ask any senator here to object to that. Is there any senator who believes that a person should be appointed to an office of profit under the Crown and that we should not be informed and that the  President  should not be informed? That is elementary, but it is disagreed with by the Leader of the Government. 

 Mr Whitlam did not appoint  Senator Gair  because of any feeling he had that  Senator Gair  should be appointed to the position.  Mr Whitlam  has demonstrated on many occasions his profound antagonism towards  Senator Gair.  Since  Mr Whitlam  became Prime Minister of this country he has taken the opportunity on two occasions to grossly insult  Senator Gair.  He made a statement which indicated that  Senator Gair  had been nominated for a knighthood and that he had cancelled the arrangement- which he was entitled to do- but he said so in the presence of the Press with a smile and a sneer on his face. He said that the appointment in his view was the most disgraceful since the appointment of  Sir Toby  Belch. Now  Mr Whitlam  pretends that he has appointed  Senator Gair  to this position out of natural love, affection and admiration. He read a long list of his achievements, and they were achievements for which  Senator Gair  deserves the utmost credit. But few people will ever forgive  Mr Whitiam  for the action which he took in the case of a man trending towards the end of a long and admirable career, offering him a position- and I make these words clear- not to honour him but to destroy him. 
I say that it was a calculated act to destroy a political opponent, by a man who in these matters has no principle or decency at all. I want to say only this in conclusion: I will remember  Senator Gair  not for what happened in the last three or four days but for the many honourable things that he did in a career during which he earned the admiration of the people of Queensland and, later, of Australia. I have made clear to him my view of what happened in the last few days, but I will remember him for what happened before the events of the last few days. The person whom I will never forgive for what was done is the man who, in the way the Prime Minister did, coldly and calculatingly set to work to wreck the reputation of a man whom he hated for political reasons. 
The final thing I say is that this matter will not be settled here or in the High Court. There is only one place to settle this and that is before the people. Some years ago I read that when Cromwell became tired of the Parliament and said that it was not working effectively he walked into the Parliament of those days and said: 'You have been here too long for any good that you do. In the name of God, go'. That is what I say to this Government. 
My question is addressed to you,  Mr President,  and to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is Vincent Clair Gair a senator? I further ask the Leader of the Government: Has the Government notified the  President  of an appointment of  Senator Gair  and the date? If it has not notified the  President,  why not? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the current form of diplomatic representation of communist countries in Australia. 
) Where arc the offices of each representative. 
3 ) How many accredited representatives are there for each such country. 
ls there any anticipated change or expansion in this representation. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In order to inform himself on the political situation, will he study Hansard of the Victorian upper House or Legislative Council for 22 October 1952 which reveals that the Australian Labor Party in that upper House- a property House at that- moved that in view of the inequitable electoral system supply sought by the Bill then under discussion should not be consented to? Will he take note that the Australian Labor Party in that upper House of fat succeeded in forcing the lower House, the elected House, to an election and that in that election the people overwhelmingly endorsed the action taken to deny supply in the upper House by giving the Labor Party an immense majority which enabled it to become the Government? 
I notice from the ranks of Government supporters an indication that they claim that this decision is just an ordinary routine decision which had nothing to do with the coming election. I shall try to believe that, as in the same way I tried to believe, until I found that it was not true, that  Senator Gair  had ceased to be a senator on 14 March. This Government has made statements of the most courageous nature in recent days. Its members have been beating their chests like Tarzan. They have said that they are the greatest. They have said that they are not frightened of any election and will play a straight bat against anybody. Then they resort to contemptible and hypocritical little subterfuges such as this. I think that the Russians are a bit unlucky. If there had not been an election, they would have had a good chance. But I am sure that they will watch the results of the elections most anxiously in the certainty that when the elections are out of the way  Mr Whitlam  will be able to show towards them the kind of friendship which in South East Asia has earned him the title of the running dog of  Chairman  Mao. 
I want to say on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party that we do not want to delay these proceedings. I think that it is farcical to introduce the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the other Bills that it is proposed to introduce when the Senate is about to be dissolved for an election. Any Australian citizen who is listening in to the debate would simply say one thing: Why do not they put those issues aside and let the new Parliament determine them? That is the obvious thing to do. Therefore, I object to the farcical way in which the Government is delaying the Senate from undertaking the task which we are all here to undertake. Everybody knows what we are here for. We have our axes ready. Why does not the Government bring in the chickens? 

 Senator MURPHY (New South WalesLeader of the Government in the Senate)- by leave- It is very easy to answer what  Senator McManus  has asked. The Government does not need to bring in the chickens because they are already here. They are sitting opposite. A number of them are about to lose their heads in the coming election. It seems that we will not be able to finish the business by 5 p.m. As I have indicated, there are certain measures which need to be put through. The Customs Tariff Validation 
Bill is one of those measures which, in any event, has to be passed because in accordance with the usual practice, moneys have been collected in anticipation of such legislation. This is a timehonoured practice. There is the GovernorGeneral Bill which, if it is to be adopted, needs to be adopted before the commencement of the term of the Governor-General, because effect cannot be given to those provisions during his term of office. 
Is this the new GovernorGeneral or the present Governor-General,  Sir Paul  Hasluck? 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party will vote against Supply. We disregard the contention of some speakers on the Government side that there is some constitutional reason, some traditional reason, why an Upper House should not vote against Supply. The principle upon which these complainants act comes from Great Britain, and it was based on the fact that the House of Lords was not an elective House and that therefore it should not thwart.the will of the elected House of the people. That tradition was brought to Australia because in most, if not all, cases the Upper Houses were Houses of property and again it was contended that the Houses of property should not thwart the will of the fully elected Houses. 
The founders of our Constitution realised that that principle did not apply in the case of the Senate, which is just as much a House of democracy as is the House of Representatives. They included in the Constitution a provision which permits us to take the action we propose to take tonight. They would not have put that provision in the Constitution had they felt that it ought not to have been availed of. In this place I have listened to eloquent defences by the present Attorney-General and Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  of the right of the Senate to take action on money Bills. I pay tribute to him for that defence of the rights of the Senate, a defence of the rights of the Senate which did not please his leader in another place, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  The Prime Minister used that defence as the occasion for rebuking  Senator Murphy  because he said that the Constitution permitted us to do what we propose tonight. 
The attitude of my Party is that an election must be held on the issue of whether all power shall go to Canberra. That is the issue of the election. It is whether all power shall go to Canberra and whether supreme power over State rights, family rights, workers rights and every other right in the community shall be dominated by Canberra and the bureaucracy. The Australian people are not fertile soil for ideas that their country shall be dominated by an executive Cabinet and also by a bureaucracy. If this is the issue of the election- I believe that it will be- I have no doubt as to its result. The necessity to take this action was triggered off because the Government embarked upon a course of bribery and corruption to obtain control of the Senate. 
The person who accepts is guilty but so is the person who offers. When I spoke to  Senator Gair  I said to him: 
There can be no exception taken to your acceptance of the post if you take it after the Senate election when it will not affect the standing of the Parties'. He said to me: 'Whitlam made it clear that the job was available only if I resigned at such a time that he would be able to have an election in Queensland for 6 senators'. I challenge any honourable senator opposite to deny that that was corrupt and was a bribe. The man who offered it is guilty. 
I refer to the standard work on Senate practice in this country, J. R. Odgers' 'Australian Senate Practice', fourth edition, which states: 
As far back as 1695 the House of Commons resolved that The offer of money or other advantage to a member of Parliament for the promoting of any matter whatsoever depending or to be transacted in Parliament is a high crime and misdemeanour'. 
Therefore, I say without hesitation that the Prime Minister of this country is guilty of high crime and misdemeanour. He is unfit to be Prime Minister and the country must be given the opportunity to remove him from office. 
What are the means that have been adopted to gain control of the Senate? They are means which make it essential that we should take action here and now to stop what has been, as I have said before, a course of bribery and corruption for the purpose of obtaining parliamentary power. We all know of the offers of diplomatic posts and trips abroad that have been dangled in front of honourable senators who it was thought could be influenced. We know of the positions which have been dangled in front of honourable senators with a view to influencing their votes. In another direction, we know of the attempt to bring in a system under which the Commonwealth could make available to local governments sums of money for expenditure as the Commonwealth determined. That represented an obvious attempt to set up a system of bribery under which the people in those electorates who were prepared to vote for the Labor Party would receive the cream and those who did not vote for the Labor Party would not. 1 point to what has happened in the western suburbs of Melbourne. This is an area dominated by  Dr J.  F. Cairns, an area in which obviously Labor voters are to be found in larger numbers than elsewhere. An organisation has been set up and funds and other things have been provided for this organisation. A former member of Parliament who will be a candidate at the next election and a relative of the Minister have been placed in charge of this organisation which can make arrangements for large amounts of finance to be made available and patronage to be given in that area. 
I want to say this: There were disadvantages for my Party to take the course that it will take. But it was necessary to take action before this system of bribery and corruption could achieve its purpose. One has only to look at the set-up and at the series of Electoral Bills which have already been introduced by this Government and which are to be submitted to the people following a victory in the election, if the Labor Party achieves that victory. It has been said that the Government will alter the preferential system of voting in a way which will aid the Labor Party by introducing a first past the post system or an optional preferential system. Therefore, the Labor Party proposes to alter the electoral system to ensure that it retains office. It will then propose a system under which the number of people, not the number of voters, in each electorate shall be the same. The Labor Party is aware that the figures show that in Labor Party held electorates the number of children is infinitely greater than in Liberal Party or non-Labor Party held electorates. Therefore, the Labor Party proposes to initiate an electoral system, if it wins this election, under which a vote cast in a Labor Party electorate will carry with it infinite advantages over a vote cast in a Liberal electorate. So we have a complete system of corruption designed to get control of the Senate as it now is and, in the offing, we have proposals to alter the electoral system to ensure that if the Labor Party cannot get its way by bribery, it will get its way by altering the electoral system in a way which is a gerrymander and an insult to democracy. 
Finally, what are the members of the Labor Party proposing? They dislike small parties. They have made arrangements with the Australia Party that it will direct its preferences any way that the Labor Party asks for the purpose of destroying the Australian Democratic Labor Party. They are making arrangements, if they can, with other parties. What they have in design is this: They will make it very difficult for the small parties, for a start, by substantially increasing the deposit required by a candidate to stand for Parliament and by substantially increasing the percentage of the vote necessary for a candidate to retain his deposit. In other words, with this Government, electoral justice goes out the door. There is a bid for power, naked and unashamed in Canberra, bolstered up by a system of bribery, corruption and patronage and bolstered up by a deliberate design to alter the electoral system to benefit themselves. 
I repeat: This election must be fought on one issue- the issue of all power to Canberra, the issue of the defence of the rights of the States, the defence of the rights of the family and the defence of all the other rights which are essential in any community such as ours. I regard this Government as an authoritarian Government which has been kept in check to date only by the power of the Senate. When  Mr Whitlam  spoke in Hobart he said that the big obstacle in the way of his plans for power was the DLP in the Senate. He said that in this election there would be a campaign by the Labor Party to destroy the DLP. He said at the Conference of his Party in Melbourne that the DLP was the obstacle to his plans and that it must be destroyed. He has made an agreement with the millionaire hobbyist who controls the Australia Party, so that whatever way the ALP asks that Party to direct its preferences, it will do what it is told. I say again: This Government is a Government of corruption and authoritarianism. I repeat the words, which I quoted only a few days ago, of Cromwell when he marched into Parliament. He pointed to the members and said: 'You have been here too long for any good that you do. In the name of God, go'- 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to make a statement. 
The sole object of the Australian Democratic Labor Party is to complete the proceedings of this Parliament and place ourselves before the people. I have just heard the statement from the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that the Prime Minister has obtained the consent of the Governor-General for an election. But when we ask the Leader of the Government when the election is to be held, he says: 'I am not going to tell you '. I have never heard of such an extraordinary procedure in my life. 
You can say that again. The Prime Minister goes to the GovernorGeneral and says: 'I want a double dissolution', and the Governor-General says: 'Yes'. Then the Prime Minister goes into smoke and he says: 'I will now have to look into my crystal ball to find out when I am going to hold the election'. With great respect, this is not boys' week. I say to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, who does not seem interested in my remarks, that this is the Government which came to power on the boast that it was going to give us open government, that nothing was going to be held back, that we were going to hear everything that happened. Then he comes in and says: 'There is going to be an election. We are going to adjourn'. Then he said: 'The Government is going to know when the election is, but the Opposition is not allowed to know it'. Surely we have not reached the stage in a democracy where the Government announces: 'There is going to be an election, but we are not going to tell the Opposition because we want to book all the halls and make all the arrangements first. They are not going to know anything, so that we will get that advantage'. I want to say to my friends in the Government, who may be my ex-friends very shortly - 
My friend  Senator McAuliffe  says that I will not be coming back. I know that you are a good betting man, but I suggest that you should talk to some of your friends in Victoria and make up your mind not to have a bet. You should talk to  Senator Billy  Brown. 
I would merely ask  Senator McAuliffe  to talk to  Senator Billy  Brown before he lays any bets on whether I will be back. The other thing that we are told on behalf of the Government is that the Governor-General said that he would grant a double dissolution on condition that the only business dealt with was the business of Supply. The Prime Minister said that. The Leader of the Government has said that we will deal with Supply and a couple of other Bills, too. What is the position in regard to the commission that the Prime Minister has from the Governor-General? He has a commission to have an election on condition that he deals with nothing else but Supply. But the Leader of the Government says, in defiance of the GovernorGeneral's statement: 'I propose to deal with other business '. 
All I want to say is this: My Party is here rearing to go. Bring on the Supply Bills and we will pass them and that will be it. But do not run around saying that the Government is going to have an election and its supporters will know the date but the Opposition will not. Do not tell us that the Government proposes to put through extra business which the Governor-General has said cannot be dealt with. All he said was that the Government can have an election, but it must be on the condition that no other business is dealt with by the Parliament. But the Leader of the Government says: 'Forget the GovernorGeneral, I am going to put through other business.' I have a lot of sympathy for the GovernorGeneral. He deserves sympathy because of the people he has to deal with at the moment. The other day the Government put the GovernorGeneral in the position where he had signed a document appointing a man as an ambassador and he had to sit back while that man came into the Senate and voted on 9 occasions. The Governor-General had to sit back and bear it. I have great sympathy for  Sir Paul  Hasluck. He must look at this Government on occasions and say: 'My God, what am I associated with?' 
