
 -Mr Deputy President, I have the honour to move the following Address-in-Reply to the opening Speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General: 
MAY IT PLEASE YOUR EXCELLENCY: We, the Members of the Senate, in Parliament assembled, desire to express our loyalty to our Most Gracious Sovereign, and to express our thanks for the Speech which  His Excellency  the Right Honourable  Sir Paul  Hasluck, G.C.M.G., G.C.V.O., K.St. J., as Governor-General, was pleased to address to Parliament. 
I would like to take the opportunity through you,  Mr Deputy President,  to congratulate the  President  on his election to that august office. I know him as a man of principle and integrity and I am sure he will bring this Senate great honour. I would also like to take the opportunity to congratulate you,  Mr Deputy President,  on your election. In a moment of weakness you joined the wrong party; but you had the very good sense to come from the premier State. 
I have always felt that one of the 2 very proper functions of government were to protect the weak and the disadvantaged sections of the community, those people who through accident of birth or lack of education could not protect themselves. The other proper function, I felt, was that government should foresee future needs and future problems in the community and make provision for them. It was pleasing to hear in the Governor-General's speech that this Government plans to continue in that vein. When this Government came to office there were 2 very great areas of disadvantage. One concerned migrants who seemed to me to be at a very great disadvantage in this community; the other concerned women who were as disadvantaged as were migrants, Aborigines or those other people that we traditionally think of as being disadvantaged. Many migrants had come out here purely as factory fodder; they were brought out purely as means of production. Nobody thought very much about them as people or of what their rights were. We in the Australian Labor Party felt that this was very bad, because they should have been considered firstly as human beings. This Government took steps to advise these people of their rights. It had been very difficult for those who could speak only a foreign language to find out what were their rights. We took steps to stop employers and other sections of the community from exploiting those people. We took steps to encourage them to become citizens, to join the family of the nation. We wanted to safeguard the cultures that they brought with them and to encourage them to take a pride in their native language and culture because by doing so we felt that we enriched this country. This country started off, in a sense, as a collection of migrants. Its wealth has come from what its people have contributed to it, because while a nation may be very rich in resources it can only be as rich and as wise and as powerful as the people who comprise it. We had people coming here from older countries with older cultures who were contributing to and enriching our country. 
One could see that there was great danger for the children of these migrant people and for the children who were born of migrant people in this country. There was danger in the schools in that so many of them were drifting into an area of limbo. They no longer belonged to the culture into which they were born. They could not belong to our culture because they could not understand us, they could not talk to us, they could not assimilate. Some steps have been taken to make sure that those children can go on learning in their native language, to learn and be proud of their native culture, but also quickly to learn and be proud to be part of our culture. Something has been done but not enough and not with enough speed. I would look to the Government to take many more steps to ensure that more is done, because the future of a nation depends on its children, and its children are its wealth. Another area of very great need concerns migrant women. We talk very glibly at times about such things as suburban neuroses. We talk about young housewives with children, caught in outer suburbia or in the country areas, having nobody to talk to and we see that this causes all sorts of problems. But how much worse it is if they are caught in a situation where they cannot even talk to the baker, where they cannot pass a word over the fence or at the shopping centre. A home tutor scheme has been introduced so that women- some of the mature women who do not really want to go back to school but who really do want to communicate with others- can have a tutor in their own homes or can get together in groups with a tutor to learn the language and to communicate. One would hope that the community would take a kinder view of such a problem, that not only would there be a formal scheme of tuition but that the community might put out a hand to these people and try to help them. I think that by this action also we would be enriched because they must have so much to give us, and they cannot give if we cannot communicate with them. The other area I spoke of concerned women also. I have some little expertise in that field. The thing that impresses me about women at the moment is that one-third or more of our work force is made up of women and that the commercial world, it is obvious, could not get on without them. When this Government came to office it found that there had been a long period of neglect but that some things could be done immediately. The International Labor Organisation Convention on Discrimination in Employment was implemented. We formed national and State committees to advise on and deal with that matter. We resumed the national wage case and successfully supported the principle of equal pay for work of equal value. We successfully supported the extension of the minimum wage to adult females. The Government as an employer set an example and put into effect those principles which we have held dear for so long. No longer may the Government advertise for a male clerk or for a female clerk but must advertise for a person who can do the job. We provided maternity leave. That is one thing that women require that men do not. It is a rather essential requirement in the community. A woman cannot really continue working at her desk until 5 minutes beforehand. So, the Government brought into effect maternity leave so that women could take time off work before and after the birth of their babies if they wanted to continue working. The Government did those things and set an example. But that applies only to a small portion of the female work force and of the potential work force. I look forward to the day when these conditions are extended to the private sector of the economy. Only then can women be truly equal in the work force. 
If women stayed at home the commercial world would collapse. Apart from their right to good conditions, it is as an integral part of the whole plan that they should enjoy good conditions. It is obvious these days that most young women go to work. So many of them go to work not because they want to express themselves or because they are doing something they enjoy, but because to so many of them any money is better than no money at all. It is up to the Government and the unions to ensure that women work under the best possible conditions. I think it is up to us to ensure that women are used to their very best capacity. This capacity extends back to their homes and to their schools. But many women are not educated to their full capacity. There are still some areas where parents do not believe that girls need an education because after all they are going to work as a clerk or a typist for some little time and will then get married. This attitude goes back to schools where teachers with the best will in the world sometimes believe that while a male has to earn his living a female will get married and does not need to do so. 
We are very foolish as a community if we waste our resources. The resources are there to be used. One looks forward to the day when people are educated to a certain point and then learn the skills they need to earn their living. One would hope that people would not differentiate between males and females but would extend people to their very maximum. There is a great pool of untapped talent waiting to contribute to Australia and wanting to contribute to Australia. So often when a women reaches middle age and her children are no longer fully dependent on her she feels lost. So often these days with so much glib talk about women's lib women feel that they have not contributed anything and that they are in some ways useless because they have stayed at home, had babies, looked after them and did not go out and build bridges. I think this is the community's fault that women feel that way. It is a very honourable profession to a mother and I think so many mothers do it so very well that we should in some way pay a tribute to the fact that they are doing a very honourable thing. 
We do not really want to get to the position where women are forced out to work because in some way that proves that they are emancipated. We want women to have the choice. When we give women the choice we have to safeguard the children that they have had. Mothers who stay at home looking after their children teach their children so much. Children learn so much from the day they are brought home from the hospital to the day they leave their parents' home to go to their own homes. In those early years children learn so much from a mother. If mothers are to go out to work-it is obvious that they are going to go and nothing is going to stop them, be that right or wrong-we, as people who have some conscience and some role to play must make sure that the children who are born of these women learn things that they would have learned from their mothers. They must not suffer. They are our best resource. In wartime, governments can take extraordinary action to make things happen. I think governments should take extraordinary action to safeguard children and so safeguard the future of a nation. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
-Has the attention of the Postmaster-General been drawn to the suggestion by  Major General  Stretton that each telephone directory should contain a page detailing the emergency arrangements for the area that the directory covers? In view of the recent natural flood disasters around Australia, would the Postmaster-General give consideration to this commendable idea? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Customs and Excise. To what extent are the congestion and delay at Sydney container depots a result of customs procedures? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security advise me of the number of persons in each State who have applied for the allowance that enables them to care for aged people at home? This allowance is known as the home care allowance. 
It seems to me to be time to say what the Bills we are debating are all about. One Bill provides payments by way of medical benefits and payments for hospital services. The other Bill seeks to plan and establish the organisation required to implement such a scheme. It is not nationalisation of medicine, despite the attempts of the Opposition to start the counter revolution on those grounds. To quote the Australian magazine 'G.P.', which in turn quoted Webster, nationalisation is defined as 'the vesting of the control and ownership in the nation of some body or thing'. The Government is setting out to provide the vast majority of citizens in this country with a valid and sane health insurance program to replace the present inadequate voluntary scheme. It is in no way interfering with the right of private persons to practice as doctors, nor can doctors on a salary in any way be said to be owned any more than an engineer working for a Commonwealth department. 
This Government is attempting to bring social welfare in Australia into line with most other countries. This scheme seems to have raised the most hysterical opposition, not from the people of Australia- the patients- but from the doctors or, rather, some of the doctors' organisations. We will see how representative they are of the majority of doctors. Other countries which have similar schemes do not appear to have been subverted by their introduction. We have heard it alleged during the long time that this matter of the doctor-patient relationship has been debated in Australia that the Government's scheme will break down this relationship, will ruin health care in Australia and reduce standards. We have been led to believe by many spokesmen for doctors that their main concern is their patient and the welfare of their patient and that they sacrifice more of their health, leisure and general wellbeing, in pursuit of such perfection and full personal care of their patients than do the rest of us run-of-the-mill citizens in our pursuits. To quote the 'G.P.' magazine: 'Private medicine is personal care'. But just how personal is that care? How much privacy is attached to it under the system that the Opposition would prolong? 
We hear talk about this sacred doctor-patient relationship with its free choice of doctor and specialist. But let us look at it a little more closely. More and more doctors are now in group practices. Several doctors bind together in partnership or by other means to run a medical clinic. The patient goes along to that clinic and sees a doctor- not her doctor, not  Dr Smith,  but the doctor on duty. That doctor on duty has the patient's card, knows what goes on, treats her and does it well. I have no particular quarrel with that system. Often, in the days when I grew up, doctors were terribly overworked. Certainly, they established a relationship with their patients. They were family friends and confessors. Times have changed. I think that doctors are entitled to some free time for family life and recreation. I doubt whether the different relationship is very detrimental to the care and wellbeing of the doctors' patients. But let us admit that times have changed and stop this humbug about a particular relationship that is no longer in existence because doctors themselves changed the system. 
We are told there is a free choice of specialists. Patients would have no idea of who was the best specialist to whom they should be referred. Doctors, like all other human beings, have friends and favourites. If a doctor refers you to  Dr soandso,  you go. If your doctor recommends him, you accept the recommendation because you must have faith in your doctor and also because as an ordinary patient you would have no idea to whom else you should be referred. It is nonsense to say otherwise and to put such arguments shows no appreciation of the intelligence of the general public. 
The other area of break down between doctor and patient has been brought about by what appears to be the doctors' overriding concern with how much money they earn. Patients once saw doctors as men of principle, people who cared about their fellow human beings and, in fact, took an oath saying just that, namely, that their prime concern was the care of their fellow men. Good people- people of integrity who worked hard- held doctors in high regard and as a matter of honour paid their bills. Of course, they did not go to the doctor when they could not afford to pay the bill. But over the last three or four years particularly, doctors appear to have been more and more concerned with their fees and have lost the regard of many of their patients. The very good thing is that many doctors themselves are concerned at what is going on in their profession and are themselves expressing their disgust with the doctors' organisations, the things that are being said and the work and regard that is being lost. 
In many areas of Victoria now a sign on the door of a doctor's surgery states: 'Cash in advance '. So many people know that they do not go to the doctor unless they have the money in their hand. Doctors themselves are coming out more and more and calling their colleagues money grubbers because of their lack of ethics. More and more of these doctors are going into salaried service, and doing so happily, because they find they can deal with people's problems more fully and that it is a relief to help people without putting out your hand for the money. Doctors are also going into salaried service because so many of them are coming to realise that they were trained as physicians and surgeons and not as accountants, and that they are in practice to deal with the care of people and not to spend time balancing accounts and collecting bad debts. 
The General Practitioners Society has again recently come out and urged its members not to participate in the scheme- indeed, to fight it. It has urged them to stop issuing special referral forms and it has called on them to ignore regulations under which they seek permission of the Department of Health before prescribing certain restricted drugs. The Australian Medical Association in Canberra has called on its members, if the Government establishes further health centres staffed by salaried general practitioners in areas which in the opinion of the AMA are already adequately served by private medical practitioners, not to participate in the scheme. The doctors will say what areas are adequately served. There are areas of Melbourne where there are no doctors. There are women and children in Melbourne who, if they wake up in the night, have no recourse to the services of a doctor. That is the type of area where we want to set up health centres so that the people can have medical care. But here we have the AMA stating that it will decide where and when medical centres will be set up. The General Practitioners Society in Australia was so concerned about general health care that at its recent conference it passed a resolution which read as follows: 
That the Committee should consider giving advice to members of the Society that they should boycott private pathologists in favour of public hospitals from any date on which combined Commonwealth and Fund rebates for pathology procedures performed by GP's cease to be afforded to patients. 
The letter in which notification of the resolution was given goes on to state: 
The Committee of the Society deferred consideration of this matter until its next meeting, but resolved to ask all pathologists in private practice for their views on the evidence given on their behalf to the recent Rebates Tribunal set up by the Federal Labor Government. 
The Committee would appreciate your views on this controversial matter and wishes to inform you that members of the Society are determined to preserve private medical practice, but not at the expense of private general medical practice. 
But honourable senators will notice that the patient receives no mention whatsoever. 
Debate interrupted. 
-Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was drawing the attention of the Senate to the fact that so many of the doctors' organisations felt they had a beholden duty to obstruct the health insurance plan that we wish to introduce. We are about to reach a position which was reached in Britain recently when the British Medical Association decided to stop issuing free contraceptives- a measure introduced on social grounds by the duly elected government- until they received an extra fee for service. I think that is indicative of the sort of attitude that doctors' organisations in Australia may shortly take. It is no wonder that in some areas of Australia women have been forced to set up their own health centres. 
We have heard honourable senators on the other side talk about goodwill. We have heard how we must foster the goodwill of doctors and the goodwill of staff in health organisations, but I think it is time someone did something about fostering the goodwill of patients. These doctors to whom I have referred are the sort of people that this Opposition supports at the cost of the Australian people who want a scheme that will take some of the terror out of being ill or having loved ones ill by at least giving to the people comfort in the knowledge that the money part of it is under control. Such a scheme brings to over one million people the assurance that this is a responsible society and it will not let them die or go unattended because they do not have the income with which to obtain medical care. 
To quote the 'G. P.' magazine again: 'Doctors are traders, like everyone else in a free society and they should bear that title proudly considering the crucial importance of the services they offer'. Traders in the first place-your money or no service- and blackmailers in the second place because people need medical attention and doctors know it. I could understand the Opposition's stand more readily if it were supporting all the medical practitioners in Australia- if it were standing up for that section of the communitybut it is not. Fortunately for humanity, not all doctors feel this way. All over Australia doctors are going to the media vehemently denying that they are opposed to the proposed scheme and dissociating themselves from societies such as the Australian Medical Association and the Society of General Practitioners. Indeed, they are setting up other organisations such as the Doctors Reform Group to battle against these very inhuman tactics that are being employed. These doctors know very well- and they say it publicly- that a health insurance scheme that is competent and universal is very badly needed. They know that it in no way interferes with private practice and that it makes sensible and practical changes in the funding of a health scheme. 
The new program is not socialistic but merely represents the intention by the Labor Government to update this aspect of our social security in line with the standards of the second half of the twentieth century. Just about every developed country- and some developing countries too- have adopted comprehensive universal health insurance as part of their social security system. Once the new program is introduced in Australia only a handful of countries such as the United States and South Africa will remain as bastions of voluntary insurance. In Western Europe and Canada universal health insurance is settled policy, despite the misinformation with which we have all been bombarded. For years sensible people have realised that the private health insurance schemes were not practical or logical. Well over a hundred schemes all buying buildings, all buying computers, all employing staff, all creating their own bureaucracies and building their own empires, do not bring any greater benefits or assistance to the contributors who hold them together. In the past 9 months the administrative costs of the Hospital Benefits Association in Victoria were almost $6m. If one multiplies that amount by the number of health schemes in Australia it will be seen that it is a ridiculous amount to spend on administrative costs. The HBA in Melbourne is run by a committee of 28, only 8 of whom are elected by the contributors. The other 20 are appointed by the various hospital associations, the AMA, the Pharmaceutical Society of Victoria and the Bush Nursing Association. Of that 28, 11 form the executive committee and under that set up there is no way that that 1 1 represents the contributors. The large committee on which contributors have some voice meets twice a year. 
The executive committee meets more regularly. The HBA has now employed a public relations consultant to promote its activities and to enable it better to give information to the media, parliamentarians and agents, to quote its own literature. The HBA is producing a magazine for these people, the latest edition of which contains inches of material denigrating the Government's proposed health insurance scheme and pointing out the faults in the Swedish health scheme, which is a scheme of nationalised medicine. This is a move to misinform, and frighten people and to sidetrack them because the Government is not, of course, nationalising medicine. But what have public relations and promotional gimmicks to do with health insurance? Why should money dearly won by good people to provide against that dreaded day when they become ill be used in this way? While fees go up the benefits go down and at the same time over one million people are outside the scheme altogether. Ordinary people want assistance. 
The remedy proposed by our opponents is to extend the subsidised health benefits plan to bring in all the pensioners and low income earners. One would have thought that if any aspect of the present scheme has been proved to be a complete disaster, it would be the subsidised health benefits plan which covers about one person in 20 of those who are eligible for it. Some 18,000 were eligible to apply but only 6,000 bothered. Under the subsidised health benefits plan, people here with financial handicaps, some of whom have been deprived all their lives and who are often not very good at managing their own affairs, have to attend, fill out forms and go back and forth from department to insurance fund to produce evidence in order to get the same sorts of subsidies, in many cases, as a rich man gets automatically in the form of income tax concessions. 
Our program is to relate contributions to a capacity to pay. We are using taxable income as the best measure we have of people's capacity to pay. It is a straightforward one and one in which the collection costs and the marginal inequities are as small as it is possible to make them. One thing you just cannot do under the present scheme is bring about a fair and consistent relationship between people's means and the contributions they pay. Under the new program we can not only make a general rule which is equitable but we can also provide for further exemptions for low income families and other special groups which leave everyone protected but which do not add significantly to administrative costs. 
The justification for this scheme and the pride of this Labor Government is that we know that this program will promote the development of a better health care system. We know that providing good health care means not only spending money- the present scheme does that in large measure- but spending money and using resources in a planned and proper way. When one looks at the advantages offered in this scheme one wonders why the Opposition should have made such an issue of it. Why did the Opposition use such exaggerated statements as 'go to the barricades'? Those statements bring us back to the true reason for this Opposition's objections to the scheme. It is not because there are so many people in Australia who need it so very badly. In fact, it is because the Opposition stands for the protection of vested interests and subsidies to the rich against the greater good and welfare of the great mass of the Australian people. I commend the Bills to the Senate. 
I present the following petition from 20 citizens of Australia. 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the existing National Health Scheme involves a vast amount of public money distributed by private Benefit Societies and that it is necessary to join one of these to qualify for the full Government Health subsidy. 
That it is far too expensive and discriminates against lower income groups a lot of whom cannot afford the cost of membership or private medical treatment. 
That it is inequitable, inefficient and does not satisfy the needs of the community. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that you will urgently legislate for a Comprehensive National Health Insurance Scheme, financed from taxation, and covering everybody instead of only those who can now afford it. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
A petition in identical terms from 57 Citizens of Australia was presented by  Senator Button. 
Petition received. 
Joint Russian/Australian Installations 
To the Honourable, the  President,  and senators of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
We are opposed to the establishing of any joint Russian/Australian Installations of actual or potential military significance on Australian soil. 
1 ) The policies of the U.S.S.R. are a potential and continuing threat to Australia 's security; 
The linking of Australia with the U.S.S.R. in joint Installations imperils relations with U.S.A., and the future of the A.N.Z.U.S. Treaty; 
Australia and U.S.A. have common interests and common policies, and no action should be taken which would suggest that our future lies with the U.S.S.R.and not the U.S.A. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government of Australia will completely reject any offer from U.S.S.R. for the establishing of joint Russian/Australian Installations on Australian soil. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral: Has the situation regarding the accumulation of mail in New South Wales stemming from recent industrial action improved in recent days? 
-Can the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation inform the Senate whether any steps are taken to ensure that exservicemen, particularly those living outside the metropolitan area, are kept informed of the benefits and treatment available to them from the Repatriation Commission? 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security  investigate the problem which is faced by country parents who have to take children to the city for medical treatment, often several times a month, so facing crippling financial burdens for travel and accommodation expenses, with a view to relieving them of that burden, as no claim for such expenditure can be made on health funds and no taxation relief is allowed? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. When will he give consideration to extending the service pension provisions of the Repatriation Act to former members of the British Forces who have made their homes in Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Will the Minister consider including single fathers and widowers in a scheme similar to that which now covers women who find themselves in similar circumstances, with a view to allowing them to be retrained in an occupation which would allow them to spend more time with their children? 
I think the people of Queensland should be congratulated on having elected  Senator Sheil  to the Senate. At least it moves him out of the medical care field, to their great advantage. By now these Bills have been debated over and over in both Houses of the Parliament. They have been debated almost endlessly outside the Parliament through the media, in clubs, committees and societies. The debates which have covered the intricacies of the scales of fees and actuary reports have gone on endlessly. These matters have been pulled apart and put together again. I rise to support the Bills on the grounds that, for the vast majority of the little people of this country, they will be a godsend. The intricacies of Government subsidies and the financial arrangements that prevail between State and Federal governments are beyond them. They want, and they have said through 2 elections in the last 2 years, that they will have a scheme such as this to take some of the terror out of being ill. The difference between the party to which I have the honour to belong and the Opposition Parties is that we represent those people and the Opposition represents the privileged in the community, people such as the doctors who are represented by the Australian Medical Association and the General Practitioners' Society, the private hospitals and the private health insurance funds. 
Through all the debate which has waged around these Bills the constant hysterical and deliberate attempt to misrepresent the scheme and to engender fear and dismay has come from those bodies which I mentioned. The willing tool in this patently dishonest campaign has been the Opposition in the Federal Parliament. One would have thought that some tinge of conscience would have been awakened under those modish suits and those stylish haircuts, some feeling of responsibility for the ordinary people whom the Opposition represents, the ordinary people who join one of the health insurance funds out of some 160 which exist. But there are still one million people uncovered. People join these funds at an ever-increasing cost while the funds are propped up by Government finance and create greater and greater reserves. As the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  pointed out recently, they amount to $40m in one instance. Meanwhile, the funds pay their executives larger and larger salaries. This week while the Minister argued against bigger contribution payments by members, the Hospital Contributions Fund of Australia's executive committee approved new salaries for its top executives. In the case of the director the salary is $3 1,400, plus $1,500 expenses and a car. This is a rise of 22.54 per cent. At the beginning these funds were envisaged as being of assistance to the very people whom they are now milching, the very people whom the Opposition is supposed to represent. These funds are not even representatives of their consumers. (Honourable senators and members interjecting)- 
Even members of the Country Party represent consumers who should be represented on these health insurance funds. But consumers play a very small part in boards of management of health insurance funds. For instance, the Hospital Benefits Association in Victoria is run by a committee of twenty-eight, only eight of whom are elected by the contributors. The other twenty are appointed by the various hospital associations, the Australian Medical Association, the Pharmaceutical Society of Victoria and the Bush Nursing Association. Of those 28 committee members, eleven form the executive committee which actually runs the Association, and under that set up there is no way that the contributors can be represented adequately in that inner committee. 
The private health insurance funds have failed to give the Australian people the protection they require. People who insure themselves with these funds are finding it harder and harder to afford adequate cover. The very proliferation of funds- 81 medical funds and 93 hospital funds -is illogical and must be costly to the community as costs rise and as they compete. More than one million people are left without any cover. These are people who, in the main, are the sorts of people for whom the community must take responsibility- age pensioners, single mothers, people on low incomes with large families and people who just do not think about the necessity for cover and who are irresponsible but who, with this Government's scheme, will be forced to discipline themselves. To follow the line of the Opposition and have all these people enrolled in private funds would result in a massive handout to doctors and the funds. It would cost in the vicinity of $150m a year and would achieve nothing by way of desirable incentives for the future development of the health care system. 
I instance the case of a working family which has to pay out an increasing amount for insurance cover; has to remember to go to the chemist regularly to pay for that cover; has to remember, if the contributor changes jobs and the boss has been making deductions from his pay, to make other arrangements to have the payments made or else when the wife has a baby in 3 months' time or when Johnny has appendicitis there is no money; and which has to wait for repayments to arrive. That family and similar families are all desperately wanting a scheme that looks after paying the bills in some civilised and easy way so that there is one more thing about which they do not have to worry. They do not feel that they have lost any great liberty in having the amount deducted "from their pay. They are looking forward to the freedom of having that part of the business of living looked after for them. So many of them know from conversations with their mates that this is the way it is done in comparable overseas countries. No terrible disasters have overtaken those countries because of such schemes. Not one of the Governments involved would remove such schemes. 
Much is said about nationalising doctors, socialising medicine and creating a government monopoly over medicine. The fact is that we are losing goodwill in the medical world. We are losing the goodwill of the patients. Doctors are losing the goodwill of the patients- the goodwill that used to exist between them- because, so far as the patients can see, the doctors or, to give them their due, the doctors represented by these associations are much more concerned with their own position and how much money they can earn than with the welfare of their patients. One patently dishonest rumor that those gallant gentlemen in the AMA have spread abroad throughout the highways and byways- a rumor which has been mentioned here today- is this despicable story: 'You will not be able to have your own doctor. You will be zoned. You will go on a list. You will have a black man to look after you'. This is all poppycock, and they know it. Over and over, in written and spoken words, the Government has said that there will be complete freedom of choice of doctor. There is no way by which a person will be forced away from his own doctor, even if the doctor is  Senator Sheil. 
If the doctors from the General Practitioners Society and the Australian Medical Association took time out from worrying about how much money they were going to earn and tried even once to be truthful they would have to admit that today, under the scheme they prefer and maintain, it is very difficult in some instances for a patient to see the same doctor on 2 consecutive visits. Doctors have formed themselves into groups and clinics to give themselves decent working hours and conditions- nobody has any complaint about that- and the patient sees the doctor on duty. So why this constant childish nonsense about the personal relationship between doctor and patient? What patient goes to a specialist of his own choice? He goes where his doctor directs him. That is the system that exists and that is the system that will continue. It is an insult to the intelligence of ordinary people to say otherwise. 
This scheme that we are bringing in does not in any way interfere with that current situation. The Opposition and the doctors it represents would have more credibility if they showed more concern for the areas where there are no doctors at all. If they were more concerned with the people who cannot afford doctor's fees, hospital insurance charges or charges for proper medical cover, they would have more credibility in their crusade to save the community from itself. Does not the Opposition know that there are many areas in which doctors' surgeries display a sign 'cash on consultation5? What does a mother do who slices off her thumb doing the vegetables or whose nipper falls out of a tree and breaks his wrist? It is unfortunate if they are stupid enough to do it on the day before pay day and there is no money. 
Have not members opposite ever existed where the purse was empty? If a plumber is asked to come and mend a pipe he does not ask for the money first. He comes and mends the pipe and sends his bill like any honest, decent tradesman. But members opposite are not prepared to make doctors become honest, decent tradesmen. The people opposite have never woken up in the night with pain and laid in misery saying to themselves that they will go to the doctor tomorrow only to find that when tomorrow comes they are faced with the milk bill and the new school shoes and they have to put the visit off again and again. A member of the Opposition in earlier debate told us that if a person is too poor to pay a doctor that person should certainly go to the doctor, feeling sure that he would not be refused attention to his needs. What incredible cheek. It is like Florence Nightingale bringing calves foot jelly and other help to the poor. 
We on this side of the House are committed to maintaining the proper dignity of all people. We are not committed to innumerable private health insurance funds whose only concern is to build up their reserves so that when this Government's scheme begins to operate they may escape with the fat funds. We are not committed to preserve a system where doctors exist in some privileged position- gentlemen who, at will and as the pique takes them, will withdraw their services from areas of need without a care for the people left without their care. Gentlemen withdraw their services; lesser ranks go on strike. But the lesser ranks go on strike in a desperate bid to maintain their very lives. These other people go on strike to maintain their position of privilege. We are committed to giving the people of Australia a comprehensive health insurance scheme- a comprehensive health cover- because we believe in their intrinsic right to a life of dignity and decency. 
I think the people of Queensland should be congratulated on having elected  Senator Sheil  to the Senate. At least it moves him out of the medical care field, to their great advantage. By now these Bills have been debated over and over in both Houses of the Parliament. They have been debated almost endlessly outside the Parliament through the media, in clubs, committees and societies. The debates which have covered the intricacies of the scales of fees and actuary reports have gone on endlessly. These matters have been pulled apart and put together again. I rise to support the Bills on the grounds that, for the vast majority of the little people of this country, they will be a godsend. The intricacies of Government subsidies and the financial arrangements that prevail between State and Federal governments are beyond them. They want, and they have said through 2 elections in the last 2 years, that they will have a scheme such as this to take some of the terror out of being ill. The difference between the party to which I have the honour to belong and the Opposition Parties is that we represent those people and the Opposition represents the privileged in the community, people such as the doctors who are represented by the Australian Medical Association and the General Practitioners' Society, the private hospitals and the private health insurance funds. 
Through all the debate which has waged around these Bills the constant hysterical and deliberate attempt to misrepresent the scheme and to engender fear and dismay has come from those bodies which I mentioned. The willing tool in this patently dishonest campaign has been the Opposition in the Federal Parliament. One would have thought that some tinge of conscience would have been awakened under those modish suits and those stylish haircuts, some feeling of responsibility for the ordinary people whom the Opposition represents, the ordinary people who join one of the health insurance funds out of some 160 which exist. But there are still one million people uncovered. People join these funds at an ever-increasing cost while the funds are propped up by Government finance and create greater and greater reserves. As the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  pointed out recently, they amount to $40m in one instance. Meanwhile, the funds pay their executives larger and larger salaries. This week while the Minister argued against bigger contribution payments by members, the Hospital Contributions Fund of Australia's executive committee approved new salaries for its top executives. In the case of the director the salary is $3 1,400, plus $1,500 expenses and a car. This is a rise of 22.54 per cent. At the beginning these funds were envisaged as being of assistance to the very people whom they are now milching, the very people whom the Opposition is supposed to represent. These funds are not even representatives of their consumers. (Honourable senators and members interjecting)- 
Even members of the Country Party represent consumers who should be represented on these health insurance funds. But consumers play a very small part in boards of management of health insurance funds. For instance, the Hospital Benefits Association in Victoria is run by a committee of twenty-eight, only eight of whom are elected by the contributors. The other twenty are appointed by the various hospital associations, the Australian Medical Association, the Pharmaceutical Society of Victoria and the Bush Nursing Association. Of those 28 committee members, eleven form the executive committee which actually runs the Association, and under that set up there is no way that the contributors can be represented adequately in that inner committee. 
The private health insurance funds have failed to give the Australian people the protection they require. People who insure themselves with these funds are finding it harder and harder to afford adequate cover. The very proliferation of funds- 81 medical funds and 93 hospital funds -is illogical and must be costly to the community as costs rise and as they compete. More than one million people are left without any cover. These are people who, in the main, are the sorts of people for whom the community must take responsibility- age pensioners, single mothers, people on low incomes with large families and people who just do not think about the necessity for cover and who are irresponsible but who, with this Government's scheme, will be forced to discipline themselves. To follow the line of the Opposition and have all these people enrolled in private funds would result in a massive handout to doctors and the funds. It would cost in the vicinity of $150m a year and would achieve nothing by way of desirable incentives for the future development of the health care system. 
I instance the case of a working family which has to pay out an increasing amount for insurance cover; has to remember to go to the chemist regularly to pay for that cover; has to remember, if the contributor changes jobs and the boss has been making deductions from his pay, to make other arrangements to have the payments made or else when the wife has a baby in 3 months' time or when Johnny has appendicitis there is no money; and which has to wait for repayments to arrive. That family and similar families are all desperately wanting a scheme that looks after paying the bills in some civilised and easy way so that there is one more thing about which they do not have to worry. They do not feel that they have lost any great liberty in having the amount deducted from their pay. They are looking forward to the freedom of having that part of the business of living looked after for them. So many of them know from conversations with their mates that this is the way it is done in comparable overseas countries. No terrible disasters have overtaken those countries because of such schemes. Not one of the Governments involved would remove such schemes. 
Much is said about nationalising doctors, socialising medicine and creating a government monopoly over medicine. The fact is that we are losing goodwill in the medical world. We are losing the goodwill of the patients. Doctors are losing the goodwill of the patients-the goodwill that used to exist between them- because, so far as the patients can see, the doctors or, to give them their due, the doctors represented by these associations are much more concerned with their own position and how much money they can earn than with the welfare of their patients. One patently dishonest rumor that those gallant gentlemen in the AMA have spread abroad throughout the highways and byways- a rumor which has been mentioned here today- is this despicable story: 'You will not be able to have your own doctor. You will be zoned. You will go on a list. You will have a black man to look after you'. This is all poppycock, and they know it. Over and over, in written and spoken words, the Government has said that there will be complete freedom of choice of doctor. There is no way by which a person will be forced away from his own doctor, even if the doctor is  Senator Sheil. 
If the doctors from the General Practitioners Society and the Australian Medical Association took time out from worrying about how much money they were going to earn and tried even once to be truthful they would have to admit that today, under the scheme they prefer and maintain, it is very difficult in some instances for a patient to see the same doctor on 2 consecutive visits. Doctors have formed themselves into groups and clinics to give themselves decent working hours and conditions- nobody has any complaint about that- and the patient sees the doctor on duty. So why this constant childish nonsense about the personal relationship between doctor and patient? What patient goes to a specialist of his own choice? He goes where his doctor directs him. That is the system that exists and that is the system that will continue. It is an insult to the intelligence of ordinary people to say otherwise. 
This scheme that we are bringing in does not in any way interfere with that current situation. The Opposition and the doctors it represents would have more credibility if they showed more concern for the areas where there are no doctors at all. If they were more concerned with the people who cannot afford doctor's fees, hospital insurance charges or charges for proper medical cover, they would have more credibility in their crusade to save the community from itself. Does not the Opposition know that there are many areas in which doctors' surgeries display a sign cash on consultation'? What does a mother do who slices off her thumb doing the vegetables or whose nipper falls out of a tree and breaks his wrist? It is unfortunate if they are stupid enough to do it on the day before pay day and there is no money. 
Have not members opposite ever existed where the purse was empty? If a plumber is asked to come and mend a pipe he does not ask for the money first. He comes and mends the pipe and sends his bill like any honest, decent tradesman. But members opposite are not prepared to make doctors become honest, decent tradesmen. The people opposite have never woken up in the night with pain and laid in misery saying to themselves that they will go to the doctor tomorrow only to find that when tomorrow comes they are faced with the milk bill and the new school shoes and they have to put the visit off again and again. A member of the Opposition in earlier debate told us that if a person is too poor to pay a doctor that person should certainly go to the doctor, feeling sure that he would not be refused attention to his needs. What incredible cheek. It is like Florence Nightingale bringing calves foot jelly and other help to the poor. 
We on this side of the House are committed to maintaining the proper dignity of all people. We are not committed to innumerable private health insurance funds whose only concern is to build up their reserves so that when this Government's scheme begins to operate they may escape with the fat funds. We are not committed to preserve a system where doctors exist in some privileged position- gentlemen who, at will and as the pique takes them, will withdraw their services from areas of need without a care for the people left without their care. Gentlemen withdraw their services; lesser ranks go on strike. But the lesser ranks go on strike in a desperate bid to maintain their very lives. These other people go on strike to maintain their position of privilege. We are committed to giving the people of Australia a comprehensive health insurance scheme- a comprehensive health cover- because we believe in their intrinsic right to a life of dignity and decency. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. In view of the concern that the Minister has always shown for the special difficulties migrant children experience in gaining an education in Australia, will the Minister take whatever steps are possible to alleviate immediately the lack of proper accommodation and facilities experienced by staff and pupils at the Brunswick Girls High School in Victoria where, apart from the fact that the building is a disgrace to the Victorian Government in any circumstances, twothirds of the pupils are of migrant origin? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. What steps have been taken to involve Aborigines in the administration of justice especially in the Northern Territory? 
Can the AttorneyGeneral inform me of the number of legal aid offices that he has established? Can he tell the Senate whether the public is availing itself of this service to any degree? Further, can he indicate in what area of the law the bulk of the work is being done? Does the Attorney-General contemplate extending this service in any way? 
I take the opportunity, I suppose with some presumption, of congratulating the 2 new senators who have spoken tonight. It can only do good for the Senate to have speakers who show such thought and who are so fluent. I am sure my male colleagues on this side of the chamber are very pleased to have yet another civilised woman in this place who can raise the standard of debate in this place. 
I take some issue with what  Senator Chaney  said about social welfare and taxation. I think I have a greater respect for the ordinary people of this country and their belief as to where the money comes from. I believe they know very well that they cannot have the services they want without paying for them. I am sure they are prepared to pay for them. I believe that more and more the community is becoming aware of its responsibility in social welfare and realises that it is no longer confined to flower hatted ladies and calf's foot jelly but also concerns the life of everybody from birth until death. One has only to look at local government which in a sense is the government that is the closest to the people to realise the situation. It is the government that the people understand most. Ordinary people are demanding more and more of local government. Local government is no longer a place which only provides people to sweep gutters and collect garbage. People want all sorts of social services. They want services for the aged people, services for young people and a whole range of community services. 
The people know very well that they will not get these services unless they pay for them. To hear that people are said to be stupid and they do not want these sorts of social welfare benefits or that in some way the people believe that these benefits are handouts by the Government takes us back to the days before the age pensions came in when we were told that if pensions came in we would have a lot of layabouts who would not work and we would be forced to pay them out of our own taxes. In respect of child endowment payments it was alleged that this would bring about all sorts of promiscuity and women would have babies just for the sake of being paid this benefit. But of course this did not happen. And of course the Opposition no longer believes this, neither do the people of the community. Any government which took away these benefits would learn its lesson very quickly. People want proper care and they are prepared to pay for it. I think that under the previous Government although the people paid for services they got very little in return. 
I would like to take the opportunity in this debate to draw the attention of honourable senators to that section of child care which at the moment raises sniggers from people who do not think about it very much. I draw attention to the plight of children and parents in Australia who suffered for 23 years when seemingly nobody cared very much about child care. In that time the Government viewed the children of Australia either as pampered darlings, destined to fill the positions of privilege and status, or as some sort of factory fodder to be used to fill the needs and desires of big business and the children were educated to that end and that end alone. The mothers of those children were useful in that they bred the citizens who were needed to keep the system going. But then came the time when industry was desperate for manpower. It needed more bodies than the baby stakes were providing and therefore management started to tempt women back into the work force. When their roles as mothers and home makers had been lauded- in fact at some stage 'Hearts and Flowers' was played on request- a complete about-face was accomplished so that on the one hand there would be a bigger work force available to manufacture the goods that more and more families were convinced were essential to life. With the morals appropriate to that action, industry wooed the women back to the work force without a care or thought for the fate of the children. The Government then in power encouraged them. I do not maintain that because mothers go to work their children are necessarily at risk. But what I say is that when mothers are not at home 24 hours a day playing their traditional role the children are at risk if society does not take steps to provide substitutes for all the roles a woman fills in the home at that time. If those roles are filled by satisfactory substitutes 
I am sure that the children will mature to satisfactory adulthood. It is in this area that this Government- after years of neglect and ignorance by the previous Government and by State Liberal Party governments- has shown its vision, its concern and its common sense. 
If mothers are to work- they will, because there is. no turning the clock back now- child care is of the utmost importance. I am not speaking of the traditional educational role of the kindergartens which are open from 9 a.m. to 12 noon 4 days a week, which most fortunate children in the Australian Capital Territory and some children outside it enjoy, but the sort of care that is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, for all children from the babe in arms to the teenager about to launch into the world. This Government, despite propaganda to the contrary, is prepared to provide that care. After a period when there was a deal of discussion on what child care meant and when there was a deal of work to be done to move people from the thought that child care was not just kindergartens but really child care, this Government within the next few weeks will establish a children 's commission. After 23 years of neglect we found it difficult to ascertain just how much had been done to provide the sort of care our children needed. We set a budget of $ 130m. We found we could not spend that amount because the facilities were not there on which to spend it. It is difficult to set up child care centres for pre-school children if there are not sufficient trained people to staff them. It is difficult to get sufficient people to staff the centres if there are no facilities to train those people. That is what 23 years of neglect and ignorance in this area had given us. 
We need care for the children of working parents between the time when the parents go to work and the children commence school. We need care for children between the time they get out of school and the time the parents arrive home from work. We need care for children in school holiday time or when mum or dad are ill and are unable to care for the children. There are nowhere near enough play leaders and supervisory people to cover the need. The reason for this situation is that nobody had thought of this concept for 23 years. 
All over the country at the moment there is a desperate need being filled by desperate people. Children are left in unofficial minding centres, or with the lady next door, or locked up in a room for the day. When we came to the problem of child care- we came to it cold; it was a field where very little had been done- we had to start from scratch. We did things like putting advertisements in daily newspapers to ask people for their ideas. A number of organisations and individuals were asked to make submissions because of their particular known concern in the area of child care. Submissions were subsequently received ranging from single-page letterssome just a few heartfelt lines- to elaborately prepared documents indicating detailed knowledge of an area and often enclosing specific proposals for a service or range of services. This had never been asked for before. Such proposals were frequently supported by statistical details of the particular community and by survey material. Some proposals related to a small community or area in which the writers were involved. Other proposals were concerned with proposals relevant across a wide range and sometimes for the whole of Australia. Some proposals came from professionals in the field of child care and child health, particularly psychiatrists and teachers. Specific proposals were received from some local and State governments explaining moves planned for the near future. A surprising and encouraging element was the number of private individuals, mostly mothers, who wrote. In the submissions as a whole there was overwhelming evidence of interest and involvement in the care of children, mostly preschool age children. 
Many opinions were expressed about who needed child care services. Some came from the parents themselves who saw their own families in need of services. Some of these parents and organisations too said that they had been expressing their need for services for years. They wrote hoping that we might be the body able to make provision for them. Some wrote about their concern for the children of working mothers. Others expressed concern for the children whose mothers were based at home. Some focused on the need for assistance to families so that mothers need not work, while others highlighted the problems of isolation, loneliness, lack of stimulation and assistance experienced by mothers at home with their children. Some were concerned about the out-of-school care of school-aged children and about care during school holidays. 
So honourable senators can see that a whole range of people and ideas suddenly came to the fore. There were people concerned about handicapped children and their families. Others were concerned about migrant children and their problems. It was as though we opened a box- I was going to say Pandora's Box, but we hope it has a better effect than that. All these areas had been waiting for years for somebody to show that they understood that there was a problem and that they would do something about the problem. I have 2 examples from my own Liberal Party governed State of Victoria. In that State when a woman finds she is deserted- her husband has gone because of all sorts of pressuresshe has nowhere to turn. For many women in that area the rent is not paid and the furniture is not paid for. Such women find that all sorts of debts have accumulated. They find themselves in court because of eviction notices. They find themselves on the street with the furniture repossessed and nowhere to go. No State Government agency is available to give them any sort of counselling or care. Presumably nobody does care because, under existing legislation, if that woman cannot prove to the satisfaction of the police- they check- that she has somewhere that night to keep her children they are taken from her and put in a State institution. The only body which seemingly does anything in that area at all is an entirely voluntary body which is set up specifically to aid deserted children. It raises all the money itself. It gets no help from the State Government and, up to this stage, it has received no help from the Federal Government. It is the body which finds the motel room in which to put the woman and the child or children so that they are not broken up, so that the children do not suffer the traumatic experience of being taken away and put in a home. This is the body which pays the bills, which puts up the bond for the house which the woman eventually finds and which looks after the family. 
In another area there is a residential kindergarten which was set up by kindergarten teachers because some 35 years ago they could see a need for city children to have holidays in the country. That area is no longer country; with the suburban sprawl it is outer suburbia. Those same teachers 25 years ago realised that they had to set priorities. They realised that rather than children having holidays in the country there were children in desperate need of being looked after and there was no where for them to go, except into government institutions. Their reputation 25 years ago was no better than it is today. 
So these teachers turned from providing holidays for city children to providing emergency care for them. This is one of the very few places where pre-school children and now some older children can be sent when their families are in urgent need of this sort of residential care. This group gets no assistance from the State Government. It is only now that we have this Australian Government that it gets any assistance from the 
Federal Government. It provides assistance with kindergarten projects. We hope that now more assistance will be provided under child care legislation. These are 2 very small instances from one State of the sort of need which has been there for so long but about which nobody has done anything. It took this Government to see the vital necessity of assisting in this area. It took this Government to assist handicapped children. To our discredit, handicapped children in this community have been hidden away in much the same way as they were in the 1 9th Century. If we did not see them they might go away; if we did not look we might not have to say that they were there. We treated children as second-class citizens. We conveniently forgot that all children are entitled to proper education, proper care, and have a place to fill in this society. 
Proper care and proper education are as much concerned with what children do from the time they leave home and go into the schoolroom and what they do in their school holidays as they are about them passing exams and going to the university. We know that $73m will not in the twinkling of an eye solve all the problems of child care in Australia. We know very well that it is a mammoth problem and the further we go into it the bigger it appears. It is obvious that what we know about it now is just the tip of the iceberg, but where we are willing to spend $73m the previous Government was not willing to spend 73c. So when Opposition senators talk about a child care problem that arrives and disappears and arrives and disappears I think they should examine their own consciences about the fact that under their Government it did not even appear, let alone have $73m spent on it as a start. 
We know we are not going to stop there; we know we are going to go further when it comes to caring for children . We want to open up a whole world of assistance lor children and parents by way of support, counselling, stimulation. Fathers and mothers are important, but so too are responsible caring people. People are important, but in this instance money will help too. We have started; we are determined to go on. Government supporters will be ever pressing for a larger share of the Budget for this very important field of child care. We do not anticipate any sort of resistance from the community when we say we want a larger share of the Budget for child care. The Opposition would do well to show its belated interest in this matter by assisting us in this place and by bringing pressure to bear on their State members, their State governments, which at the moment act like dogs in the manger instead of making sure that every available effort is put into this vital field. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wriedt)  adjourned. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction. Did the Minister see the report from the Chief Housing Officer of the Master Builders' Association in Victoria stating that the Association believed that the industry was healthy, that only four out of 1,060 Association members had gone into liquidation in the past 12 months, that most of the 30 resignations in that period had occurred because of moves interstate and that the Master Builders' Association believed that the injection of $100m into the housing industry would do much to bring stability to the industry, as opposed to the boom and bust pattern that brought about the recessions of 1960, 1965 and 1970? Does the Minister agree with those statements? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Media. I preface my question by reminding the Minister that he has told the Senate on a number of occasions that he has asked his Department to pursue new outlets for film productions by Film Australia, particularly television outlets. Can the Minister inform the Senate if this policy has been successful in achieving distribution of Film Australia films in the United States? If so, can he give details of any such productions which have received widespread distribution? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1 969- 1 974, 1 present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
. Area School at Yirrkala, Northern Territory; 
New Telephone Exchange at Haymarket, New South Wales; 
Central Health Laboratory at Woden, Australian Capital Territory. 
I wish to address a question to the Minister for the Media. In line with the Government's desire to make as much information as possible available to the public, can the Minister advise the Senate whether there are plans to extend the Australian Information Service to areas other than the capital cities, such as large provincial cities. In the case of the capital cities, are there plans to enlarge and extend those bookshops which, in the case of Melbourne at least, are small and not well situated? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Education inform the Senate of the progress that has been made in the planning of the university to be established at Albury-Wodonga? What is the proposed opening date of that university? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. Taking into account the complaints from meat producers that the prices they are receiving for their beasts are so low that their enterprises are becoming uneconomical, can he give the Senate an explanation of the continuing high prices that housewives are paying for meat? 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General who would agree that members of the the community who are totally blind are at a tremendous disadvantage in communicating. In view of this would the Minister consider allowing such people either telephones free of rent or free telephone calls? 
I present the following petition from 397 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth- 
That the reduction of the allowable deduction of education expenses under Section 82 j of the Income Tax Assessment Act from $400 to $150 is $50.00 below the 1956-57 figure. 
That this reduction will impose hardships on many parents who have children attending schools, whether non government or government; and particularly on parents with more than one child at school. 
That this reduction will further restrict the freedom available to parents to make a choice of school for their children. 
That some parents who have chosen to send their children to a non-government school will have to withdraw their children and send them to government schools already overcrowded and under-staffed. 
That the parents to benefit most relatively from educational income tax deductions, in the past and even more in the future, are the parents of children in government schools and this has a divisive effect in the Australian community. 
That parents should be encouraged by the Australian government to exercise freedom of choice of the type of school they wish for their children. The proposed reduction means an additional financial penalty is imposed on parents who try to exercise this choice and discourages them from making an important financial contribution to Australian education over and above what they contribute through taxation. 
That an alternative system, a tax rebate system, could be adopted as being more equitable for all parents with children at school. 
To compensate for the losses that will follow from the proposed reduction and to help meet escalating educational costs faced by all families your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should take immediate steps to restore educational benefits to parents, at least at the 1 973- 1 974 level either by increasing taxation deductions or through taxation rebates. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. Did the Minister see the report of the Apprenticeship Commission of Victoria in which it was disclosed that Victorian industry had a record growth of apprentices in the past financial year but that many of them were unable to begin their technical training because of the serious deficiencies in facilities in technical colleges? As the Victorian Government has proved incapable of coping with this situation, can the Minister inform the Senate of the steps being taken by the Australian Government to assist in this situation? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Agriculture. In March 1 973 the Prime Minister announced an inquiry at Australian Government level into the problems of salinity affecting the Murray River and its environs. Can the Minister inform the Senate of the outcome of that inquiry and of the action that the Government proposes taking on this matter? 
I present the following  petition from 1 5 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
We support the introduction of Family Courts and the single non-fault ground for divorce based on 12 months separation. 
We also support the change in maintenance provisions to end the subsidy for life system and to base maintenance on the real needs of all parties involved. Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should not delay the Family Law Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present a petition from 14 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we support the concept of no fault divorce in the Family Law Bill because: 
1 ) Marriage is not merely a contract it is a relationship. 
That if a party withdraws from that relationship for whatever reason, there is no good to be achieved by insisting on a continuance of a contractual shell. 
That where a marriage relationship has demonstrably broken down, divorce should be as quick, simple as possible in the interests of the dignity of the parties and the emotional well being of their children. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Family Law Bill be debated and passed as soon as possible. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question, which is addressed to the Postmaster-General, relates to the report that Melbourne Cup day may be marred by some form of industrial action. I understand that this situation could arise because of the activities of postal unions which are seeking a public holiday on Cup day for their country members. My question is: Can the PostmasterGeneral inform the Senate as to the outcome of this matter? 
-I rise briefly to support this Bill because I think it is a measure for which we in this country have been looking for a long time. The lawyers have had their say in this debate and their lucidity has painted a very broad picture of a very good measure, but I think that before we finish the debate the point of view of the consumer- the customershould should be put. I am very much in favour of the Bill from that point of view because I think it takes out of divorce the shoddy, dirty aspect, and that is what I am sure the majority of the community is very anxious to do. It is a great advance to have one ground for divorce- the irretrievable breakdown of marriage. I accept that. I look forward to the Committee stage when we can convince ourselves that all contingencies have been covered.  Senator Webster  expressed some fear that one ground for divorce might break down or tear aside the fabric of society. In answer to that point I cite the words of the Bishop of Durham who, speaking in the House of Lords in June 1 937, stated: 
If the number of divorces were a safe indication of social morals, it were indeed possible to make the whole community pure at a stroke by prohibiting divorce. 
I think the fact that we have come to the point of having a 12-months separation period as grounds for divorce is a very good idea. I believe this will do away with the long period of bitterness which only grows with time. It is the more corrosive the longer it goes on. By the time people come to the point of actually signing the papers for a divorce they have been apart for a long time. The time of travail and agony has gone on before that 12-months period. In many instances hope of reconciliation is long past. The reconciliation procedures which are taken into account in the present circumstances are a farce. They are no more than a phrase read to people by a law clerk. One law clerk told me that when she read the requisite phrase to the petitioner she almost had the book thrown at her because the petitioner was so incensed that at that stage the law clerk should talk about reconciliation. The petitioner asked: 'Whose side are you on, anyway?'. 
That was just to prove it. It is still there and they still say it. They say it woodenly and automatically. It has nothing in the world to do with reconciliation. I think the fact that we are moving towards no fault in divorce is an excellent idea. We will not get there quickly. I am afraid that the bitterness, the spite and the revenge will go on for some time. But at least if we establish that we believe there is no fault in divorce then I hope this will filter through the community. Some of the gentlemen who sit on the bench are apt to blame people where perhaps they could take a slightly lesser view of the position. While children from the marriage exist they are a reminder of an association that has gone wrong. Bitterness remains and can build up. Every effort must be made to do away with so much of the bitterness because of the very bad effect this has on children. Out of that our hope is this concept of a family court. I think that the definition of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs should be noted. It states: 
It generally involves the creation of a special court (or division of a larger court), the assimilation of all family matters into one court, with active pre-divorce and post-divorce counselling not merely to assist reconciliation, but also to provide for the reduction of bitterness and distress and in alleviating on-going post-divorce problems. It is the concept of the ' helping court . 
I think this is a most important thing to bear in mind. It is so badly needed. If we talk about free and post-divorce counselling we must see that the personnel who carry out that counselling and the provisions under which they carry it out are brought into effect. So often those sorts of phrases are used by Parliaments and governments and in legislation to pay hp service to an idea to make it more palatable for people. If ever there were an area where that sort of counselling should be made available it is in this area because in no other areas are human beings torn apart as much as they are in the divorce area. The circumstances of the present courts, if nothing else, would be grounds for wanting changes in divorce legislation and procedures. For one thing, the gentlemen on the bench so very often feel degraded. One can hear judges talk about being in the divorce jurisdiction, with a curl of the lip and a smell under the nose, as though they were being soiled by the very fact that they were in it. The whole emphasis is on sex. The only thing that seems to come out of the marriage as far as those courts are concerned is sex. There is no regard for loyalty, for companionship which might have been built up or for the people who are being ripped apart. I noticed the report of the Committee states: 
It is of the essence of our recommendation that the Judges appointed to this Court (men and women) - 
I am pleased to see that- should be chosen for their experience and understanding of family problems and should be drawn from existing Judges, members of the bar and solicitors, according to their particular suitability. They would need to recognise their responsibility in developing a new type of court, acting with a minimum of formality, co-ordinating the work of ancillary specialists attached to the court encouraging conciliation and applying, only as a last resort, the judicial powers of the court 
At the moment one gets the feeling that the first and only thing to be applied is the judicial power of the court. The physical circumstances of these courts into which people go are appalling. Ordinary people who do not know anything about the law are confused by the formality. They are covered with a feeling of guilt. If they have families, there is no place to leave the children or have them cared for while their parents attend these courts. There is no possible way for one to know how long one will be there. One could turn up one day and at the end of the week one could still be waiting in the line for one's turn. People are confused by all this formality. They are overwhelmed by all the unnecessarily complicated procedures which these courts insist on going through. 
One of the worst things about courts- there may be courts in Australia which are better- in Melbourne are the wretched circumstances in which one meets with barristers and solicitors. One can walk around those dirty, cold, miserable, stone corridors and find people literally taking their lives apart bailed up in corners with nowhere to sit. They are bailed up in one corner with their barristers. The opposing party- the terms in this case give one a picture of what it is all about- is around the corner with his barrister and solicitor. The bargaining goes on from one to the other- 'If we get that much, how much will you give?' The question is not what we are doing to people's lives or to children's lives but bargaining, and usually over money. The thing that occurs to me out of this pre-divorce counselling is this: We all know that people are liable, because we are all human beings, to have an argument. It builds up into what seems to be an overwhelming thing. People could rush out and decide that divorce is the only answer. At the moment there is nobody to whom they can go in privacy and dignity, without filling out papers, and going through that indignity to ask what will happen to them and where they can go. There should be somewhere people can go before the papers are signed, where they can be told that bank accounts have to be closed, other accounts have to be closed, property has to be divided, insurance has to be changed, new wills have to be made, the welfare of the children has to be concerned with and schooling arrangements have to be made for the children. 
These are the far reaching effects which will apply in the change from the current situation. I feel that if they could take a deep breath and have another look at the situation this might lead to some real reconciliation. I hope that the Government will look to the fact that local facilities are much more accessible to people than a room tucked away in the High Court in the middle of Melbourne. That building itself is enough to put anybody off. A woman with small children should feel she can go to the local town hall or some such place and find out factually what happens, what to do, how much it will cost because, really, there is nowhere she can find out these things other than by making an appointment and fronting up to a solicitor. Then things are moving and people wonder whether they can pull back. 
One hopes that in this new Bill a new atmosphere will be engendered which will take the bitterness out of the fights over the custody of children. If there is any more terrible thing in society than seeing children used as pawns between bitter and spiteful people, each feeling hurt and wanting revenge, I do not know what it is. One hopes that people will stop and consider children, not as part of their property to be allotted like a lump of land, but as human beings who have to be cared for. Under this Bill the Court has the right to place children with people other than parents. I suppose we all know of cases in which grandparents and aunts were in fact, if not in deed, parents and children have almost literally been dragged out of their arms to be sent to strangers whom they did not know merely because they were part of the property of those people. The main aim of any divorce Bill should be the welfare of the children, I believe. I hope that in this instance it will not be a tongueinthecheek effort, which other attempts have been in the past, but a real striving to make sure that no matter what happens to the adults the children have been catered for. One can be sorry for adults who are caught up in all sorts of difficult circumstances, but children cannot help themselves. I note that under this Act no decree will be issued unless the Court is satisfied about the welfare of the children. I hope that although welfare workers will be used to ascertain the needs and desires of children, not too much emphasis will be placed on what have become known as welfare workers, with all that the term implies, but that a lot of emphasis will be placed on a great deal of informal, friendly, helpful discussion to find out what truly is needed for children. 
Like other speakers in this debate, I am concerned about the maintenance provisions. I can imagine people saying: 'Oh, well, she is a woman, so she would be concerned.' I was pleased to hear one senator forecast amendments to take some of the harshness out of those provisions. I truly believe that they are very harsh on a wide section of women. It is not enough just to say that equality is desirable and is being attained by women. Equality or independence, or call it what you will, is being achieved slowly. In this instance, 'slowly' is the operative word. Many women can and will manage. They have the capacity, the training and the sheer determination to manage and to manage very well. There is a whole generation of women who have devoted their lives to home, children and husband. They have achieved a great deal. They have had a very honourable profession. There is no more honourable profession than having brought up children well, in a good home and provided all the ancillary services that husbands need so they can earn a livelihood. Because she and her husband proved incompatible does not mean that this woman, who probably received no training to earn her living, or if she did it was at best 25 years since she did, and who has no assurance in her own ability, should be forced out into the community to earn her living. 
Some women, whether they come from the working class or the most affluent, have never had any money of their own. They have had to ask their husband even for their tram fares. It seems to me hardly fair that we then force them out onto the world. They are entitled to assistance for the years of work that they gave to the children, the home and the care of a husband. While I am waving the women's lib banner, let me point out that even some of the younger wives are not trained to earn their living and do not expect to go out into the work force, and it is hardly fair of us to force them out. I quote from the Melbourne 'Age' of 30 September 1974. A woman teacher stated: 
One high school student delegate claimed she had been actively discouraged from continuing her education after fourth form. 
My maths teacher called me aside after the School Certificate exam and told me I was making a grave mistake by going on to sixth year because I could not hope to marry if I were better educated than my prospective husband '. 
While that goes on- we all know that it does; it is not a thing of the past- we have not a work force or a community of women who are fitted for outside work. They do not have the confidence; they do not have the jobs. They must be looked after. Those who do work generally work in the lower paid jobs at the moment, and many women in professions are more lowly paid than the men in those professions are. The women who do work ease the financial burden on their husbands. They contribute to the family welfare and still have 2 jobs. They must be a mother, homemaker and housekeeper and they must be a bread winner as well. Even those who after the divorce say I will manage and I will look after my children and my home', still have 2 jobs. The community should take some cognisance of this fact. 
I know that the question of maintenance orders rouses deep bitterness in the community. A newsletter published by the Divorce Law Reform Association states: 
Section 90 has been introduced as a substitute and it is possible to foresee that most divorces in the hands of the neurotic, the greedy and the vindictive will proceed under this section grabbing the assets of the marriage. The new wife and her children also have rights and should not be expected to be deprived and forced out to work to provide for the lazy, good for nothing and often neurotic woman whose own ineptitude or greed caused the breakdown of the marriage. 
For people to write that, one can imagine the sort of bitterness there is in this area and the very real job that a family court, a family law commission and those who give post and pre-divorce advice will have to do. I am interested in the Committee's recommendation regarding certain social welfare laws that make it mandatory for a wife to take out a maintenance order before she can get any sort of social welfare pension. They are confusing, humiliating and useless because the woman must show that she has tried to implement it. How can she with the sort of facilities that she has? 
I feel that society is placing more and more pressure on people at the moment, and it is certainly placing more pressure on women. One must admit that older women are sometimes abandoned when their sexual attraction fails. Young women are abandoned when the pressure of supporting a family forces husbands to desert them. This Government must take note of human frailty and safeguard these people until they can care for themselves. Every chance must be taken to make sure that we are safeguarding children and those who are unable to take care of themselves, remembering that our prime aim is to establish a decent divorce law without the concept of fault. I am very much in favour of a family law court and a family law commission which will work to the greatest advantage of all concerned and do away with the spite and bitterness as much as possible. The fabric of our society is changing. I quote from 'Reform of the Grounds of Divorce: The Field of Choice' published by the English Law Commission: 
A good divorce law should seek to achieve the following objectives: 
To buttress, rather than to undermine, the stability of marriage; and 
When, regrettably, a marriage has irretrievably broken down, to enable the empty legal shell to be destroyed with the maximum fairness and the minimum bitterness, distress and humiliation. 
The second objective has two facets. First, the law should make it possible to dissolve the legal tie once that has become irretrievably broken in fact. If the marriage is dead, the object of the law should be to afford it a decent burial. Secondly, it should achieve this in a way that is just to all concerned, including the children as well as the spouses, and which causes them the minimum of embarrassment and humiliation. Above all, it should seek to take the heat out of the disputes between husband and wife and certainly not further embitter the relationships between them or between them and their children. It should not merely bury the marriage, but do so with decency and dignity and in a way which will encourage harmonious relationships between the parties and their children in the future. 
I ask the Senate to acknowledge that, although our society is changing, the cry of women's lib is not an excuse for bypassing social and economic justice. I look forward to the Committee stage of this Bill. 
I present the following petition from 35 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
We deplore the tactics of the opponents of the Family Law Bill in seeking further delays for its implementation. The Community has had more than adequate opportunity to examine its contents and implications. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should not delay the Family Law Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. I draw the Minister's attention to the fact that there are, all over the country, grandparents battling to bring up grandchildren left in their care and that very often the only income is the age pension. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether such people are entitled to draw child endowment in respect of the children in their care? Are they eligible for any other assistance? Would any such payment or assistance endanger their pension rights? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports that the Lord Mayor of Melbourne will lead a deputation to the State Minister for Health protesting about the State Government's threat to withdraw the $100,000 subsidy to 2 proposed council pre-school centres if the Melbourne City Council accepts Federal Government building funds? Can the Minister advise how widespread is this obstructive attitude of the Victorian Government? What action can the Federal Government take to counter such destructive actions? 
I present the following petition from 1115 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the honourable the  President  and the members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, we, the undersigned, are not opposed to the simplification of divorce proceedings, but have serious objections to the Family Law Bill 1974; 
That, the concept of marriage contained in Section 26 subsection 2 is of marriage as a transitory, and temporary union dissolvable by the simple passing of a period of twelve months separation; 
That, such a concept of marriage will destroy the contractual nature of marriage, undermine the total commitment of two persons to each other and threaten the integrity of family life which is the basis of our society; 
That, a Bill with such serious implications deserves to be considered as a matter of public importance and be the object of the community debate which it warrants. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should vote against the Bill in its present form, allow public consideration of amendments and then vote to so amend the Bill as to strengthen and support marriage and the family in a manner acceptable to the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 10 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That we have examined the Family Law Bill and substantially support the provisions therein 
That the Family Law Bill takes into account the changing roles of women in modern society 
That the amendment to the bill recommended by the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee will ensure that the rights of women who play the traditional role in society will be protected, as will the interest of children 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Family Law Bill be debated and passed as soon as possible. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 12 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we have read the petitions concerning the Family Law Bill and support the Bill as sufficiently protecting the legal and social rights of women and children in the family 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Family Law Bill be debated and passed as soon as possible. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 56 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we are concerned at letters in the press inferring that the Family Law Bill should be delayed. We are opposed to such action on the grounds that there has been ample time to discuss the bill with the community, and we are informed and believe that many submissions have been considered by the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee and the report of that committee is substantially in accord with the Family Law Bill. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Family Law Bill be debated and passed as soon as possible. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 59 citizens of Victoria: 
To the Honourable the  President  and the Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the State of Victoria respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Law Bill 1974 is a matter of public importance; 
That the subject matter of the clauses of the Bill will ultimately have the widest effects on the lives of the citizens of Australia; 
That the proposals contained in this Bill are not adequately known to the citizens of Australia; 
That the Bill as such has not been the object of the public scrutiny, dialogue and debate which it deserves; 
That for these reasons grave concern is felt that the Bill may be passed before the community is aware of its long term consequences. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should vote that the Family Law Bill 1974 be made the subject of further community study and that to facilitate this aim the debate on this Bill be adjourned until April, 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 45 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and the Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we, the undersigned, are not opposed to the simplification of divorce proceedings, but have serious objections to the Family Law Bill 1 974; 
That the concept of marriage contained in Section 26 subsection 2 is of marriage as a transitory, and temporary union dissolved by the simple passing of a period of twelve months separation; 
That such a concept of marriage will destroy the contractual nature of marriage, undermine the total commitment of two persons to each other and threaten the integrity of family life which is the basis of our society; 
That a Bill with such serious implications deserves to be considered as a matter of public importance and be the object of the community debate which it warrants. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should vote against the Bill in its present form, allow public consideration of amendments and then vote to so amend the Bill as to strengthen and support marriage and the family in a manner acceptable to the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 670 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the reduction of the allowable deduction of education expenses under Section 82 J of the Income Tax assessment Act from $400 to $150 is $50.00 below the 1956/57 figure. 
That this reduction will impose hardships on many parents who have children attending school, whether non government or government; and particularly on parents with more than one child at school. 
That this reduction will further restrict the freedom available to parents to make a choice of school for their children. 
That some parents who have chosen to send their children to a non-government school will have to withdraw their children and send them to government schools already over crowded and understaffed! 
That the parents to benefit most relatively from educational income tax deductions, in the past and even more in the future, are the parents of children in government schools and this has a divisive effect in the Australian community. 
That parents should be encouraged by the Australian government to exercise freedom of choice of the type of school they wish for their children. The proposed reduction means an additional financial penalty is imposed on parents who try to exercise this choice and discourages them from making an important financial contribution to Australian education over and above what they contribute through taxation. 
That an alternative system, a tax rebate system, could be adopted as being more equitable for all parents with children at school. 
To compensate for the losses that will follow from the proposed reduction and to help meet escalating educational costs faced by all families your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should take immediate steps to restore educational benefits to parents, at least at the 1973/74 level either by increasing taxation deductions or through taxation rebates. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 95 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and the Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, we, the undersigned, are not opposed to the simplification of divorce proceedings, but have serious objections to the Family Law Bill 1974; 
That the concept of marriage contained in section 26 subsection 2 is of marriage as a transitory, and temporary union dissolvable by the simple passing of a period of twelve months separation; 
That, such a concept of marriage will destroy the contractual nature of marriage, undermine the total commitment of two persons to each other and threaten the integrity of family life which is the basis of our society; 
That, a Bill with such serious implications deserves to be considered as a matter of public importance and be the object of the community debate which it warrants. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should vote against the Bill in its present form, allow public consideration of amendments and then vote to so amend the Bill as to strengthen and support marriage and the family in a manner acceptable to the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present 2 petitions, identical in wording and from 22 and 38 citizens of the Commonwealth respectively, in the following terms: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we have read the petitions concerning the Family Law Bill and support the bill as sufficiently protecting the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Family Law Bill be debated and passed as soon as possible. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
I present the following petition from 80 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the honourable the  President  and the Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, we, the undersigned, are not opposed to the simplification of divorce proceedings, but have serious objections to the Family Law Bill 1974; 
That, the concept of marriage contained in Section 26 subsection 2 is of marriage as a transitory, and temporary union dissolvable by the simple passing of a period of twelve months separation; 
That, such a concept of marriage will destroy the contractual nature of marriage, undermine the total commitment of two persons to each other and threaten the integrity of family life which is the basis of our society; 
That, a Bill with such serious implications deserves to be considered as a matter of public importance and be the object of the community debate which it warrants. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should vote against the Bill in its present form, allow public consideration of amendments and then vote to so amend the Bill asto strengthen and support marriage and the family in a manner acceptable to the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 1 3 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That we have examined the Family Law Bill and substantially support the provisions therein. 
That the Family Law Bill takes into account the changing roles of women in modern society. 
That the amendment to the Bill recommended by the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee will ensure that the rights of women who play the traditional role in society will be protected, as will the interests of the children. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Family Law Bill be debated and passed as soon as possible. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction aware that there appears to be confusion within the ranks of the Returned Services League as to those persons eligible for housing grants? Will the Minister inform me whether all those people, men and women, who enlisted in the forces are eligible for a housing loan? What is the maximum loan available? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry been drawn to a report in today's Sydney Morning Herald' which refers to the community's difficulty in buying woollen clothing? The report goes on to state that when the Australian Wool Board was approached for the name of a retailer where such articles could be bought, the reply was that a certain retailer should be approached because it imported such articles. Taking into account the part wool plays in our economy will the Minister advise what action the Government will take to ensure that the public can buy a range of woollen goods in Australia at a reasonable price? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. I ask: Has his attention been drawn to the report in today's Melbourne 'Age' that the Gippsland Institute of Advanced Education at Churchill in Victoria will offer 75 places in a course for a diploma of teaching and a bachelor degree in education in 1975? As there is no oncampus accommodation at the Gippsland Institute at the moment, there will be none when the 1 975 education year opens, there will be accommodation for only 36 by the end of May, and as there is very little accommodation in the surrounding communities, yet there will be 629 full time students there before these additional students are taken on, will the Minister confer with the Minister for Housing and Construction to do what the Victorian Government is not prepared to do, that is, to ensure that some emergency measures are taken to provide housing so that students will not have to abandon studentships? 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Transport to the tragic accident which occurred in Melbourne last month when a bus carrying members of a marching girls' club ran out of control killing the driver and injuring a number of passengers. Did the Department of Transport subsequently initiate investigations into the causes of the accident? Can the Minister advise whether any special regulations covering buses will be introduced following these investigations? 
I ask the Minister for the Media whether his attention has been drawn to the report of the Children's Television Action Committee to the effect that television stations in Australia are screening cartoons which have been either banned in the United States or carry a warning to parents. Can the Minister inform the Senate of steps taken to ensure that Australian children see the very best that television has to offer? Has his department contemplated instituting procedures such as prefacing certain films with a warning to parents? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. The Minister recently announced plans to encourage teachers to upgrade their qualifications. It was reported that from next year teachers with diplomas from teachers' colleges will be eligible for means tested financial assistance for all years of a degree course in arts, science, economics or other courses related to teaching. The help will be extended to students dissatisfied with present courses who wish to transfer to a teacher education course. As state trained teachers are bonded for 3 years, nongovernment trained teachers would be able to take advantage of such a plan immediately. Can the Minister advise of plans to come to an arrangement with the States to allow all teachers to take advantage of this offer immediately? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What progress has been made in the planning for a university to be established at Albury-Wodonga. 
What is the proposed opening date ofthe university. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate compliments the Government on recognising 1975 as International Women's Year, and asks the Government to take urgent and immediate steps to eliminate all forms of discrimination against women in Australia  and to actively encourage the elimination of discrimination against women in all parts of the world. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Northern Development and the Northern Territory been drawn to newspaper reports that the women of Darwin are pressing for a bigger say in the reconstruction of the city because the old city had ample resources for male leisure and recreation but little for women and children? As women under 40 and children made up 60 per cent of the city's population will the Minister assure the Senate that every step will be taken to consult both with the women of Darwin and with professional women such as architects and designers and, further, to use the expertise and assistance of all these people on the various bodies and committees set up to handle the reconstruction of Darwin? 
Has the attention of the 
Minister for the Media been drawn to the report that the Leader of the Opposition in another place has declared that a Liberal-Country Party government would abolish the Department of the Media? Is it true that since the formation of this Department by the Labor Government, Australian artists, musicians, writers and film makers have had the opportunity to use their talents in Australia rather than leaving this country for overseas? Is it also true that talented people overseas have returned to Australia and that in fact Australia is fast becoming recognised throughout the world for its talent and expertise apparent in these fields? 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLANDYesterday, in my capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Education, I was asked a number of questions as to whether  Mr Snedden,  as Leader of the Opposition, had said that a prospective Liberal-Country Party government would consider restoring fees for university students. I have also noticed - 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security seen the report issued in Melbourne that doctors in that city are desperate about the lack of facilities for the care of the aged and chronically ill there? The report further states that the solution is not the provision of more nursing home beds but is rather an overall plan covering accommodation, domiciliary and other support services and medical care. Will the Minister assure the Senate that the Australian Government will endeavour to bring about a conference with State governments and voluntary agencies as a matter of urgency with a view to solving this real and human problem? 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Media. In view of the fact that 1975 is being observed as International Women 's Year, I ask the Minister whether there has been any appreciable recognition of this fact on the part of television or cinema interests. Is the Minister prepared to do anything to see that International Women's Year gets some sort of a go on Australian screens? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, 1 present the report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works relating to the following proposed work: 
Central Hospital Services Complex- Stage 2- Australian Capital Territory. 
Also in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, I present the 37th general report and the 38th general report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
-I rise to speak in this debate finding myself, I must say, in agreement with 2 points made by the Opposition. One was made by the previous  speaker, Senator Baume.  He said that if the Labor Government were defeated it would leave this country in a very serious situation. I hearth agree. After the sentiments that have been expressed in this debate by members of the Opposition it must be obvious to everybody that the country would be left in a very serious situation. It is as clear now as it was from the first speech of an Opposition member in the first debate on the national health insurance scheme that we have philosophical and practical grounds on which we differ in regard to this scheme. This Bill and the others that we have debated get down to one philosophical ground, that is, that we stand for the ordinary people of Australia and the Opposition stands for the privileged people of Australia. We stand for care for the ordinary people of Australia and the Opposition stands for the money that is concerned in it. 
No, I have been here for only 6 months. The Opposition opposes this Bill on practical and philosophical grounds. Dealing with the philosophical grounds, suddenly the Opposition has found that it cares about some of the people of Australia- the pensioner patients, the migrant groups, the lower income groups and the family groups; the people that this Opposition forgot for 23 years when it was in government. It never worried about them when it was in office. It is only now when it is pushed that it finds them to be a convenient excuse to bleat about when what it is really concerned about is the people who are served by the medical field as it stands at the moment. 
Let me deal with the pensioners for whom  Senator Baume  cried such crocodile tears. The pensioners in Australia before this Australian Government came to office were treated as less than human beings so far as the medical profession was concerned. They had no rights to full medical care. They were treated like some very minor, but perhaps highly intelligent animals. They sat on the end of the line in the waiting rooms. They were pushed from pillar to post.  Senator Baume  threatens that if this scheme is introduced medical practitioners might be forced not to treat pensioners. I say to him that this is nothing very new to the people of Australia. Over the last 18 months doctors in all parts of Australia have been doing exactly that, that is, not treating pensioners and using them as some sort of stick with which to belt the Government. At last under the national insurance scheme that we envisage pensioners will be treated not as pensioners, not as something different or as some higher form of animal life, but they will be treated as human beings and as part of the community. This is exactly the sort of scheme we insist we will introduce. 
It is sheer humbug to talk about the Government denigrating groups associated with health care when we take into account the campaign that has been run by the Australian Medical Association and the General Practitioners Society. Those organisations have run a campaign of hysteria and of vilification of the Government. They have used hysterical rubbish to frighten the ordinary people of Australia into believing that if the Government brought in a health scheme that would deal with their ordinary everyday needs, somehow that was bringing in communism. It is the greatest load of rubbish that has ever been turned out in this country. It is also not facing up to reality to talk about building up ill will between the doctors and the Government. In reality what is being built up is a great deal of ill will between patients and doctors; never mind about the Government. The patients have got to the stage where so far as they are concerned the doctors fees are more important than any care that the patient can get out of them. The AMA and the GPS have done nothing about disciplining their members. They have done nothing about reminding their members of the ethics they are supposed to agree to. The shameful position has been reached in many parts of Australia that until the money is handed in the door first, the doctor will not treat the patient. Any honest plumber does his work first and submits the bill. I think it is about time doctors had a look at the ethics plumbers apply to their work. 
Yes, I have. Now I come to deal with the private health funds for which we are supposed to feel so sorry. We should remember how private health funds ever came into existence. They came into existence because people combined to give themselves the assistance they needed and to give themselves the health care they wanted. This was the only way they could live and learn to manage their affairs in this area. Many small funds may be in existence but many small funds came into existence because there was no government fund operating in that field to cover people. People were forced to rely on their own assistance. These private health funds we have today use money that is contributed by many little people and are propped up with government money in increasing amounts. They duplicate expensive administrations. They pay large salaries. They are not responsible to the people, the consumers of the welfare which they hand out. They are a law unto themselves. For many people, the quicker they pass into history the better. We are supposed to weep over the private hospitals. 
Yes, he is very rude. Private hospitals are well known as good investments, and they are very well known as good investments for many doctors. As we all know very well, private hospitals have never been located on the basis of need in the community. They have been located on the basis of the ability to pay of those who use their facilities. 
I include some church hospitals in that. To talk about socialism is hypocritical. We all know that it is hypocritical, because this scheme gets nowhere near socialism. To attempt to frighten and to confuse ordinary people with that emotional nonsense is very wrong. To say that the people of Australia do not want such a scheme is flagrant dishonesty. Democracy is a system under which ordinary people express their will. In 2 elections the majority of the people of Australia have said loudly and clearly that they want such a scheme. They want the scheme that so many other people in Australia have had. They will not be frightened by statements such as: 'The Australian Medical Association will co-operate with anybody but a Labor government'. It says a lot for the ethics of the people who belong to the AMA that they should make such a statement. 
This Bill is part of the national health scheme that we have told the people of Australia during the last 2Vi years we will bring in. We will go ahead and do it. The Opposition, representing the privileged people in this community who want to keep their bank accounts and want to keep their position but find that that position is threatened, will fight the legislation tooth and nail. The Opposition will find that the people of Australia will tell it exactly where it belongs, which is back in the dark ages before people realised that governments must be responsible for the people in the community who cannot look after themselves. That is exactly what this Bill does. I commend it to the Senate. 
-I rise to support the National Health Bill (No. 3). As has been said this afternoon, we have dealt with this Bill and the National Health Bill (No. 2) so often now that the situation is starting to become a little ridiculous. I am very glad that the Opposition is supporting the National Health Bill (No. 2) and am very sad that it still is not supporting the National Health Bill (No. 3) which is aimed at bringing some commonsense into the realms of the health insurance bodies. The Bill represents an attempt by this Government to establish provisions for the protection of the rights of people. It is aimed at ensuring protection for the ordinary consumers who do not have representation on the bodies managing the health insurance funds. The Government wants to protect the rights of the community in relation to the operation of these funds. 
It is a matter of fact that ordinary contributors are not part of the governing bodies of these funds. For instance, the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia, which really was created by the Australian Medical Association, is not subject to any control by the mass of its contributors. The articles of association require that there shall be 12 medical members and 12 contributory members on the Council of the Medical Benefits 
Fund. The medical members are the only members eligible to vote members on to the Council and in turn the medical members are selected by the Council. When we look at who the members of the Council of the Medical Benefits Fund are we find that they include  12  active Australian Medical Association members plus a consultant for Development Finance Corporation Ltd and a former deputy general manager of the Mutual Life and Citizens Assurance Co. Ltd; the national executive director of the Australian Institute of Building; a Country Party member of the Legislative Council of New South Wales and a director of country newspapers and television; another board member of Development Finance Corporation Ltd and director of light companies including Australian Fixed Trusts Queensland Division, Queensland Oil Refineries, the National Bank of Australasia, City Mutual Life Insurance Society Ltd and Mutual Acceptance Ltd; and a Tasmanian Liberal ex-member of the House of Assembly. 
Their wives may be contributors but those companies certainly are not and they certainly do not represent the ordinary people who rely on this fund for health insurance. These health insurance funds came into being because people believed that it would be a great thing if they banded together in a cooperative way at a time of very great financial commitment when they are ill. The funds now have got out of the hands of ordinary people and are far removed from that co-operative field. Ordinary contributors have no control whatsoever and it is very proper for the Government to safeguard the small people. The provisions of the Bill are designed to enable health insurance organisations to be supervised in a manner that will ensure that they serve the needs of contributors in a most effective manner. That is a very proper role for government to play and I have much pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
-This debate is occasioned by the Opposition's concern for South Vietnam- not the people of South Vietnam, I venture to suggest, but that piece of country that has become known as South Vietnam. It does not appear to be concerned about the people of Vietnam, that small country with the great heart for which for more than 23 years this Opposition showed not the slightest concern. Vietnam is a country that so many people would like to forget. It is a country that I think, after listening to the Opposition, some people believe we should have killed right off and then we would not have had any problem to face up to. Vietnam was invaded by the French in 1847. It fought valiantly with us against the Japanese in the last war. It was handed to the Japanese by its French protectors and itself eventually had to evict the Japanese. The people of Vietnam believed our pious wartime propaganda about believing in people's rights to self determination and self rule. They are the people of whom General MacArthur said in Tokio, when commenting on British and French use of Japanese troops to try to defeat the Vietnamese independence movement: 'If there is anything that makes my blood boil it is to see our allies in Indo-China and Java deploying Japanese troops to reconquer the link people we promised to liberate '. 
General MacArthur. Vietnam is the country that believed in 1954 at the Geneva Conference that the Western countries, with which it had had dealings, were honest when they said: 
In the case of nations now divided against their will, we shall continue to seek to achieve unity through free elections, supervised by the United Nations to ensure that they are conducted fairly. 
Vietnam saw an imaginary line drawn across a map in a faraway place dividing its land in half without any consultation with the people. How would ignorant peasants know what sort of government was good enough for them? How would the interests of other people have suffered if the Vietnamese were allowed to settle their own affairs without outside interference or 'assistance'? This is the country on which the United States of America dropped twice the tonnage of bombs that it used in the entire Second World War; the country on which was dropped, until the cease fire in 1 973, more than 3 times the tonnage of bombs that was dropped in the Second World War by everyone. In South Vietnam's 5 northern provinces and around Saigon destruction is the greatest and the most concentrated in history. According to the United States State Department figures, casualties in South Vietnam from 1960 to 1972 were 476 837 wounded. 
A U.S. Senate committee reported that between 1964 and 1972 6 355 000 refugees could be counted in South Vietnam, and nobody knew from where they came. These are the people who in the name of their freedom saw 35 per cent of their dense tropical forest in South Vietnam defoliated, and 345 000 acres of farm land ruined by bomb craters. These people saw Australians, their neighbours, come into their country to fight Vietnamese people with no declaration of war but with the excuse that it was for their freedom. From listening to some of the honourable senators on the Opposition benches it looks as though, if they have their way, we will be going back to reliberate South-East Asia all over again. The people of Vietnam felt so concerned about their own country and its freedom from outside interference that they were prepared to burn themselves alive in a gesture of despair and defiance. They saw their babies burned with napalm. They pitted their small resources but great belief in themselves and their destiny against the great American nation whose  President,  Lyndon Johnson, at one stage of this frightful period in history said: 'I won't go down in history as the first American  President  to lose a war'. What concern for the people? What was the principle? The principle was to save face in commercial interests. 
Much talk has gone on about the aid that these people received from outside sources. Aid from Russia and China to the whole of Indo-China from 1 966 to 1 973 was $3. 6m. Aid from America to the whole of Indo-China in the same period was $107 billion. Those figures are taken from congressional records through U.S. congressman Les Achers. Now these people are experiencing the last bitter dregs of our interference in their affairs- their children are being taken out of the country. The Opposition is making pious statements about refugees and is crying crocodile tears about caring for people in the name of freedom. Whose freedom? We bombed, strafed and poisoned the country. We turned the rice bowl of Asia into a desert and killed the mothers and fathers of these children. Now without so much as asking these people, we remove their children. I would have thought that the Opposition, instead of moving a facile motion, could have shown that it had some conscience about the damage it assisted to do to the country by showing some real concern for the children of that country and ensuring that everything possible was done to make sure that they were reunited with whatever remnants of their families were left. In so many cases 'remnants' is the operative word. 
A lot of them have been shot, bombed, poisoned and starved by us. The world 's conscience connot be stilled by removing a couple of thousand battered little babies. The fact remains that no baby should be bombed, no baby should be starved and no baby's parents should be killed. If calls by Opposition senators to that effect were made, they would get a tremendous amount of support from honourable senators on this side of the chamber. What principle is a worthy one when we can see photographs such as that which appeared on the front page of last Saturday's edition of the Melbourne Age' of a small naked dead baby being carted off the airfield after the crash of the refugee plane and being dangled from the hand of a South Vietnamese soldier like a small dead animal being removed because it smelt? That baby represents the end result of the interference of people such as Opposition senators who believe that they know so much better than the Vietnamese what is best for the Vietnamese. 
Of course the refugees run away from bombs, guns and soldiers. Refugees in all countries and all wars do that. They are tired of fighting and killing- they want peace. The soldiers in South Vietnam do not want to fight. The following report appeared in this week's 'National Times': 
. the last pilot to leave Da Nang airport saw more than a dozen helicopters and 10 A-37 fighter-bombers (one fully loaded with bombs) abandoned on the tarmac. 
Several hours after the last aircraft and the last ship had left Da Nang, the communists drove in to lay their hands on the biggest single haul of the war- about three divisions of Saigon's crack troops and all the arms and ammunition stacked in the headquarters of Military Region 1 1. 
Unlike Hue, where there were attempts to destroy the material, in Da Nang everything was left intact. 
Later, the report continues: 
The monthly desertion rate, which rose to a record 24 000 in the month preceding the offensive, speaks volumes on the state of morale which had been slowly undermined by warweariness, prolonged separation from the family and, in particlar, the galloping inflation that heightened the misery of poorly-paid soldiers. 
These men are not cowards. They want an end to this war that has gone on for over 70 years. They want their country to themselves- they want to be Vietnamese running Vietnam. This Opposition has capacity of self-delusion. It accepts phobias created by labels, instead of seeking to understand the fundamentals of Vietnam 's problems. Opposition senators are dupes to the skilled propagandists on the extreme right who have misrepresented Vietnam for their own ends. This motion is a result of those feelings. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. Do the Australian Legal Aid Offices that have been established throughout Australia assist people in the field of family law? Do they assist people with the drawing up of wills and powers of attorney? Do they provide for an officer to be in attendance at local magistrates' courts to provide advice as to bail, adjournments and representation? 

 Senator JAMES McCLELLANDAustralian Legal Aid Offices have been established in all capital cities, in Canberra and Darwin and in 21 regional locations throughout Australia. The Government believes that legal aid can best be made available to those in need by a nationwide salaried service working in conjunction with existing legal aid services, the private legal profession and other bodies interested in the welfare of the citizen. The Offices provide a general problem solving service of legal advice for persons with an element of financial need. It is intended to solve the majority of problems that affect the ordinary citizen. Eligibility is determined on interview without a formal means test. Subject to a means and needs test the Offices also provide assistance, including assistance in litigation, in matters arising under Federal law, including family law, to all persons and under State or Federal law to persons for whom the Australian Government has a special responsibility, such as those in receipt of social services, Aborigines, ex-servicemen, students and newcomers to Australia. The means and needs test for the conduct of litigation is the inability to afford the cost of representation. This is the test applied by a number of legal aid committees. It seeks to avoid the injustices that can occur with a fixed income or property test. 
In the field of family law, the Offices conduct undefended divorce proceedings, ancillary proceedings and other family law proceedings arising under Federal legislation. Most defended matters will be referred to private practitioners, as will matters in which both parties seek assistance. The Offices prepare simple documents such as simple wills or powers of attorney. They do not engage in conveyancing work, except in special circumstances, for example, in conjunction with a family law matter. They do not ordinarily act in probate matters. They will act in cases of hardship, for example, on behalf of a widow who is the beneficiary of a small estate. Regional offices provide a service of duty lawyer at the local magistrate's court. The legal officer advises persons in custody and deals with matters of bail, adjournments, pleas of guilty and the like. An officer of the Sydney branch office provides a duty lawyer service to the Special Federal Court, Sydney. Where a matter is to be defended the client will be referred to the Australian Legal Aid Offices or the Legal Aid Committee, as appropriate, to arrange representation. I trust that honourable senators will have found my answer sufficiently full and complete. 
I ask the Minister for the Media whether there have been any moves towards greater job opportunities for women within his Department, particularly in the Australian Information Service. Is it true that in the past there were few opportunities for female journalists to obtain overseas posts within the Australian Information Service? If this is true, is anything being done to right, in International Women's Year, what seems to be a most discriminatory wrong? 
-This Bill is, in my opinion, essential in that it brings democracy closer to the people. Elections at best bring to ordinary people the opportunity to choose as a government the people who in their opinion are best suited to represent their hopes and aspirations. At worst, elections become a mechanical aggravating occurrence costing a great deal of time and money, a compulsory chore that is unintelligible to the general public. There was a time when I think it could be said that that was the case and that for all but a small percentage of the population the procedures were not understood and the whole deal bored them stiff. At times some issue or some personality would flash across the sky, but generally the people turned off the babble of sound and voted because they would be fined if they did not vote. I believe that that climate has changed. Politics has come alive for a great number of people. They are taking an increasing interest in the parties, the policies and the people involved. It always has been mandator)' for a government to provide the best possible electoral system, and I believe that it has been mandatory also for a government to educate the population into that system. I am afraid that for a long time that part of government responsibility has been ignored. I believe that at the moment, because of this renewed interest- a very intense interest in parts- the Government is under a great deal of pressure from the electors of this country to bring in the reforms contained in this Bill. 
For instance, this Bill allows for the names of the political parties to which candidates belong to be placed alongside a candidate's name. While standing outside a lot of polling booths for a long period of time I have noticed that voters have been asking for this for years. They object to the system that acknowledges outside the polling booth that there are political parties with policies which they, the voters, are in favour of or disapprove of but which provides that once they are inside that sacred booth they are on their own unless there have been sterling souls standing outside the booths handing out how-to-vote cards. They finish up inside the booth with a fistful of paper and a ballot paper with a list of names, and then they have the job of rationalising all the lists in front of them. What basic right is upset by printing the names of political parties in the ballot papers? It would be different if we did not recognise political parties as a part of the system, but we do and, in my opinion, the more information we can give voters to make sure they record their vote in the way they want to, the more information we can give them so that they make a proper choice in the light of their own personal feelings, the better our system will work. 
Often in the past the very fact that the names of political parties did not appear opposite candidates' names had been used to confuse voters and to upset the proper election results. For instance, there was a case in Victoria where a candidate found at the closing of nominations that there was a person in the field who had exactly the same name as himself and the same initials, lt was found on investigation that the person had changed his name by deed poll before sending in his nomination. Obviously this was done to confuse the voters, to break down the vote for the genuine candidate and so prevent the voters in the area involved from giving true expression to their feelings. This Bill would make it impossible for such a thing to take place. 
In the past how-to-vote cards have been used deliberately to confuse voters. Certain small groups that appear at election time, and usually only at election time, come forward from time to time with how-to-vote cards that suggest that if you are a Labor voter you should vote for that Party's candidate first and then follow the Labor Party ticket or if you are a Liberal voter you should vote for that Party's candidate and then follow the Liberal card. For a busy person not closely enmeshed in the political life of the area in question, a quick glance at the card is misleading. This is unfair to the voter. This Bill would prevent such things happening and would ensure that such groups honestly produced their own material. It would make them stand on their own policies, if they had any. 
Up until this time, of course, the order in which candidates names appear on the ballot paper has been determined alphabetically. Aaron Aardvark always comes ahead of Betty Brown. It is well known that there are in some areas amongst some of the smaller political professionals standing for Parliament, not because they ever expect to get there but because of the name they had or assumed in any election meant that they were placed at the top of the ticket and they picked up the donkey vote. There have been times when that was worth 7 per cent of the vote. We all know of instances where districts have been scoured for a follower or somebody who could be prevailed upon to stand for Parliament so that a particular party could gain the position at the top of the ticket. I do not believe this applies so much to the major political parties because they usually pick their candidates because of pressure of support for that person within the party and because of the value of the contribution that person will make to the Parliament, but for many of the smaller parties that mushroom up at election time this was their moment of glory, their little grab for power, to be king maker. It was a matter of gain that donkey vote, and then they would strut around talking about who would be given their second preferences. 
Donkey votes come about because people do not understand the system and do not understand how it works. Either they have not been educated into understanding it or, in many instances in Australia over the past few years, there have been large numbers of people who have come to maturity in overseas countries that have a system quite different from ours. When they come here it sometimes takes a deal of time and education to wean them from the system they have been using for so long and to teach them how ours works. They are confused about how best to make a decision. Under this Bill it will no longer be possible for people to use our system to confuse the voter by running a candidate for the top of the ticket. At last the names will be drawn in a ballot, as has happened with the Senate ballot paper for so long, and it will not be open to manipulation. 
There are very many people in the community who in a Senate election rebel against having to rate the candidates- all the candidates- in an order of preference. They want to vote for the necessary number of people to be elected and leave it at that. As has been pointed out before, we had the extraordinary situation in New South Wales during the last Senate election where 73 candidates had to be rated. A great number of people made a mess of the ballot paper in trying to fill in all those squares and their vote was declared informal. If a person did not understand our system in the first place it was an almost impossible job to explain how to apply it in that particular election with that number of candidates. This Bill introduces the proposition of optional preferential voting, a system whereby a voter will have his vote counted, so long as he has marked the ballot paper to cover the number of members to be elected. Senate elections are notorious for confusing voters. They do not understand the system. A lot of them really do not understand what the Senate is. Unless a person starts at one end of the ballot paper- it can be a long ballot paper as the last election for this place showed- and just runs through the sequence of numbers, the person can become very confused as to whether he has filled in all the squares. People are not infallible; they are just normal human beings and it is very easy for them to leave out a number, repeat a number or leave a space. The hard part is that many of those people who do that are people who, far from being uncaring or uninformed, are taking a very responsible attitude about the way they vote and the stand they are taking in voting that way. This Bill would at last take into account the fact that human beings can make mistakes and it would make allowances for those mistakes in the best possible way. 
The matter of polling hours, which this Bill covers, has come up for discussion throughout Australia for years. Polling booths have been open for 12 hours- from 8 o'clock in the morning to 8 o'clock at night. One can imagine being a polling clerk at a small booth where one can expect only 40 votes in all. There are plenty of booths like that. By 10.30 a.m. he has issued 39 ballot papers and he knows that he may have to wait until 7.59 p.m. to issue the last paper. This does happen. We have all seen it happen. This is to say nothing of the stalwarts outside who have to distribute the how-to-vote cards and are probably there from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. At least they have an inner conviction which keeps them going. We all know that if we opened polling booths from 5 a.m. to 10 p.m. there would still be people who would leave it to the last minute to vote. I am sure people have enough discipline to get to the polling booths in the hours we designate, and 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. gives them a fair range of time to cover a fair range of activities. 
One other provision in the Bill with which I agree wholeheartedly is the proposition to take polling booths to hospitals, homes and institutions and to declare such places polling booths. I think we must have the courage to say that when a person can no longer live in his own home and he has to live in an institution he is not entitled to vote, or we should treat those people as human beings who warrant all the dignity of every other human being. For so long, unless those people could procure a postal vote, could get themselves driven to the polling booth or took themselves off the roll, they really were not catered for very well. For so many of them that trip to the polling booth in a car once a year was, I am sorry to say, the only outing they had. They would follow keenly the political party which said that it would have a car waiting at the door on polling day to take them to vote. For those who could not go in a car to vote, sometimes a barrage of people would arrive. The only visitor they may have in a year would arrive to help them with their vote. 
On the surface, it sounds quite good to take old ladies and gentlemen for a ride once a year or to visit them once a year, but the problem is that so many of the people who assist them with their vote are not there because they care about the people exercising their right to vote but because by being there they put pressure on them to vote one way or the other. I am not excusing any party for doing that. I think people's essential rights should be safeguarded by such things as this Bill. I recommend it to the Senate. 
I address a question to the Minister for the Media. Further to the question that I asked yesterday, the answer to which revealed that a female journalist had been posted overseas to work for the Australian Information Service, can the Minister tell me whether this person was asked prior to her appointment how her husband felt about the appointment and whether he would be able to find work in the country to which she was being posted, as has happened in other Australian government departments? 
I wish to draw the Senate's attention to a letter I have received from the Women's Abortion Action Campaign. I should like to read the letter into the Hansard record. It states: 

 Senator Greenwood, in speaking for an amendment to the Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1974-75, made the statement that the Women's Abortion Action Coalition was a front for the Socialist Youth Alliance and the Socialist Workers League. This is totally false and we must register our concern that the  Senator can  make such statements, in Parliament, and go unchallenged. 
The Women's Abortion Action Coalition is simply, as the name implies, a number of women, joined together in the  hopes of repealing the laws limiting abortion in this country. We feel that there is a great need for abortions to be made freely available. This is indicated by the number of abortions legally performed in N.S.W. clinics alone in the past twelve months. There have been over 31,000 legal abortions performed. 
It is true that some of the women are connected with the  SYA  and  SWL.  There are many others concerned with other groups. We are basically all working together to make the woman's lot, in this country, a more equal one with men. We want to end all forms of sex discrimination. We were not the main organising force behind the International Women's Day march, and we have not been organising large public meetings. We combined with many other women s groups on International Women's Day to organise and take part in the march. Any meetings we have held have been to further our cause for the repeal of the abortion laws and only for this reason. 
We have never put forward SYA or  SWL  sympathies at any of these meetings. We object to being labelled as an innocent women's group being manipulated by the SYA and  SWL 
The other false statement the  Senator made  was that we, as a group, were selling Pathfinder books for the Pathfinder Press, propounding Trotskyist ideas. We have never sold anything except literature relating to the abortion issue. 
We hope you will entirely disregard the Senator's statements as he is grossly mistaken in his accusations. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I refer the Minister to recent comments of the Australian Government's Special Consultant on Community Relations,  Mr Al  Grassby, in relation to the number of migrants living in the Melbourne metropolitan area. I ask: To what extent is the telephone interpreter service in Melbourne being used? 
-In rising to speak in this debate, let me first commend  Senator Bunton  on the temperance of his maiden speech. I say that, remembering the extraordinary events which led to his appointment to the Senate. I am very much in agreement with his remarks regarding the importance of local government. I agree that local government is very close to the ordinary people, who understand it very well. But I do think the days have long gone when all that local government was expected to do was to make the streets, clean the gutters and empty the garbage cans. These days, it is expected to cover a very wide field. It is not always appreciated that the money which goes to provide for such requirements as libraries, home help services and assistance to aged people is much more than that which can be raised from ordinary rates. I believe that this Government has tried to do something directly to assist and fund local government. It has given a rebirth to local communities which now believe that they can get on with doing the job that their people want them to do. The Albury-Wodonga project is an example of decentralisation as decentralisation ought to be. Decentralisation is not achieved by taking a glove factory to a country town and leaving it at that. The point must be appreciated that, when large numbers of people are moved to other parts of the country, the services which they normally expected to find in the cities where they were born and bred must be provided. 
As it is International Women's Year, I wish to draw the attention of the Senate to various incidents which show how diligent a government must be and how difficult it is, until one actually has legislation to enforce an idea, to bring people to realise that they have a blind spot and that when it comes to matters such as discrimination between the sexes, unfortunately, a deal of discrimination still exists. The matter that I wish to bring to the attention of the Senate concern discrimination against women. As this year has been designated International Women's Year, it is well for governments to realise the extent of that problem. We have a retraining scheme which has been called the National Employment and Training scheme. This is a scheme under which women who have been out of the work force for some time may be retrained and then take their skills and knowledge back into the work force. It has been brought to my attention that in some areas the people who are interviewing women for this retraining scheme are getting very close to the knuckle by asking those women for personal details about themselves. These are personal details which no man would ever be asked to provide. When one woman went to be retrained, the person interviewing her asked whether it was fair that she be retrained as she may have more children and in that case the skills she acquired would not be used by the community. This woman pointed out that she had had a hysterectomy, so she was not likely to have any more children. The gentleman interviewing her then asked her for the name of the gynaecologist so that he could check her claim. No man in any circumstances would be asked for information of that type or be put through that sort of test if he was seeking retraining. 
I am afraid that in many instances in which government departments appoint officers overseas women find it very difficult to secure such overseas appointments and married women find it practically impossible. In many instances, in interviews for such appointments women applicants are asked whether their husbands are happy about the prospect of their going overseas, whether it is the husband's wish that the woman should go overseas and whether the husband will find suitable work and be happy in the country to which the appointee will be posted. There is no record of any wives ever being consulted about how they feel about being plonked down in some foreign country without any sort of assistance or company. Husbands are never asked whether their wives are happy about overseas appointments. 
I turn now to a matter concerning superannuation which has been brought to my attention since I entered the Senate. I must admit that before my election I had never thought or worried about superannuation. Perhaps I should have; perhaps a number of other women in the community should have this matter brought to their attention, whether they like it or not. The position is that part of the husband's salary has gone to provide for superannuation. The marriage has been a partnership. The wife has assisted in every way she can to make the husband 's career and work life satisfactory and happy. If the husband dies, the wife receives only a percentage of the superannuation payable to the husband on retirement; whereas, if the wife dies, the husband receives the full superannuation entitlement. Those of us in the Senate are emancipated, I suppose, because at least the legislation governing our retiring allowances refers to widows or widowers. Not many other superannuation schemes do this. If the person who is in receipt of the superannuation payment dies, the other party to the marriage receives an annuity of five-sixths of that payment. I cannot see how one partner who is left would incur any less expense than would the other. It is time that the world looked at the matter and realised that people are human beings and that the wife who is left does not pay any less for shoes or electricity, nor eat any less or travel on fewer trams or trains than would the husband. 
I refer to a case in Melbourne at the moment. The Board of Works there obvionsly regards women as second class citizens. If women who work for the Board of Works marry they have to resign. They are then immediately taken back in a temporary capacity. A female employee who marries is required to resign and apply for reappointment to a temporary position even though she does not need to stop work. A female employee who marries and has to rejoin the Board as a new employee- despite no break in continuity of her work- is not eligible for annual leave until completion of 12 months service. Temporary employees- married women- cannot be members of the Board's superannuation fund. Married women, as temporary employees, are not eligible for paid study leave. Again this is an example of how we can legislate against discrimination but we have to take the ideas right through the community. The same Board of Works lays down conditions of dress for its women employees to wear. Unless the women wear the uniform that is picked out for them they are liable to be sacked because it is said they are not amenable to discipline. I wonder how many men would agree to wear the one coloured suit and the one coloured tie day after day irrespective of whether they liked them and were comfortable in them. I wonder whether they would be sacked as not being amenable to discipline if they did not agree to wear these clothes. 
I do not see how being told what to wear will improve work, efficiency or job satisfaction. I can see that where certain articles have to be worn for safety they should be, but in this instance there is no such thought. These women wear a blue dress and a blue cardigan probably because the members of the Board, being men, think blue is the loveliest colour. According to a spokesman for the Board of Works the thinking is that a single woman has greater claims to preference in employment. She has to provide for her future needs whereas a married woman is not even responsible for her debts. Why should the public purse be used to provide a benefit over and above the benefit which society would normally expect the husband to provide. Obviously this employer does not take into account the fact that so many families now are 2-income families and that so many women do not work to fill in idle hours; they go to work because they have to work. Work is a necessity to keep their families in the state in which the women think their families should be kept. It is no longer the position that husbands are always responsible for their wives' debts, so the thinking of the Board of Works is out of date in that. It is not always possible for husbands to afford to ensure wives' futures. I think it is a very stupid policy for people to adopt. Apart from the fact, I suppose, that a woman may want to be independent, while she is tied to those sorts of provisions she has not any hope of providing for her own future and being independent. She has no choice. 
These examples give some idea of the immense problems that still have to be faced by this Government because for a long time nobody has worried about the real equality of women in the work force or in the community. I commend the Government for the steps it has taken to ensure that women are treated as human beings with equal rights. I refer to maternity leave and people with special rights for special purposes. I ask that we maintain our vigilance so that the examples I have cited, which I do not believe arise out of malice but arise out of ignorance, may be eliminated. In this regard, of course, we have established discrimination committees which are investigating these sorts of matters. I hope that a lot more information will come to light and that more people will speak out so that these sorts of stupid, petty things can be set to rights. We look forward with confidence to the day when women go forward, not as someone's daughter, wife, mother or secretary but in their own right as whole and complete human beings with much to offer this world in general and our country in particular. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Media. Is it true that what is described as Australia's first public access radio station went on the air in Melbourne this week? Has the Minister had any reports on the way in which the station has been received? What are the Department's plans to extend this type of broadcasting service to other areas throughout Australia? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, relates to the matter of repatriation benefits. Can the Minister tell me whether there is any difference between the benefits enjoyed by men who served with any of the defence forces during the last war and those enjoyed by women who served in any of the women's auxiliary services during that period? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Minister will have seen the brief report in yesterday's Press referring to the continuing shocking loss of life due to the famine in Ethiopia. Can he advise the Senate of the steps being taken by this Government at this time to assist the victims of the drought in Ethiopia and in other countries in the Sahelian region? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Media. The Minister would be aware of an Australian Broadcasting Commission radio program called 'The Coming Out, Ready or Not Show'. He would also no doubt be aware that the program is produced and presented entirely by women. Can the Minister tell the Senate whether this is a genuine attempt by the ABC to involve women in all aspects of program production and presentation, or is it just a sop to International Women's Year? 
-Can the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs advise the Senate how many properties, both pastoral and agricultural, have been purchased by the Australian Government since December 1972 for the benefit of Aboriginal communities? Will he also advise of any details that are available regarding the possibility of the Gurindji of Wattie Creek receiving a title to 12 500 square miles of land during the course of this year? 
Can the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs advise the approximate growth rate of the number of young Aborigines staying on at secondary school through the provision of Aboriginal secondary grants by the Australian Government? 
Is the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation aware of the continuing concern of veterans organisations for the future of the repatriation system? What is the position in this regard? Has the Minister taken any steps to inform veterans organisations of the real position? 
-This Bill again comes before the Senate seeking to ensure that all candidates for Parliament should disclose the sources of their financial support and that political parties should have to disclose their sources of funds. There is no point in trying at length to convince the Opposition of the good sense of that course, but I should like to quote from the words of  Senator O'Connor  when he introduced the first Commonwealth Bill on this subject into the Senate. He stated: 
If we wish to secure a true reflection of the opinions of the electors we must have a system which will not allow the choice of the electors to be handicapped for no other reason than the inability of a candidate to find the enormous amount of money required to enable him to compete with other candidates. 
This matter has been a passion with people in the Labor Party since it first came into existence and, in saying that this Bill benefits nobody but the Government, the Opposition admits that the Bill would limit the amount of money it could spend to the amount of money that ordinary people could afford. As a former campaign director in Victoria, I know the tremendous amount of time that is taken up in raising funds in order to match the Opposition. The costs today of campaigning are enormous. To run any sort of mediocre campaign, a minimum coverage campaign on television, radio and in the newspapers, takes an enormous amount of money. The Opposition parties have always had access to large amounts of money from the business community. They also have had control of the media so that they could control the comment, the time and the space given to their policies. 
The Labor Party, of course, has a fierce belief in a fair go and it feels that it must match its opponents. It does not make for true democracy to have on the one hand a campaign funded by the major commercial enterprises in this country and on the other hand a campaign funded by trade unions and ordinary people. Trade unions, for all that the Opposition says about them, have only the funds they collect from their members and no one could say that their coffers are overflowing. Campaigns today are becoming more and more costly, more and more full of gimmicks of all sorts. Larger and larger sums are being spent on advertisements of an extravagant sort that in many cases are an insult to people 's intelligence. It is easy to say in this context that what I am putting is that if people have the money they will win the votes. That in itself is not true. We in this place are supposed to be logical and adult. We know well that there is no reality or democracy in a situation in which one man has the money to put an introductory card into a letter box and his rival has the money to saturate television and radio with advertisements giving his name over and over again. 
I am afraid this legislation will not remedy the situation overnight. People will attempt to get around it. The Watergate affair in America arose out of a similar situation and showed the sort of thing that could happen. I would favour a system that stopped completely all private donations to political parties, politicians and candidates, to get away from the soak-type advertising by political parties that is becoming more and more familiar in Australia. I favour a system whereby all political parties are given time on television equal to the amount of support they had received in previous elections so that they could put their views properly, constructively and correctly to the people of Australia, who I believe are much more intelligent than some of the material would give them credit for. 
We are not going that far in this Bill but at least the steps proposed here for attempting to control the money spent make some sense. The National Country Party is at present collecting Sim. The Liberal Party says that it has $lm. That money does not come from the pockets of the members of the Liberal Party. It comes from the major cartels and multinational organisations which those political parties represent. The funds that come to the Labor Party come from areas that are proud to contribute and do not mind that the rest of Australia knows that they contribute. They are very open about giving the money. Any trade union balance sheet can be inspected and the funds contributed to the Australian Labor Party are shown in black and white. The conservative parties feel that they have to protect their backers- not that a great deal of the information is not common knowledge. 
I am sure that this question will be dealt with by a future Parliament. After the experiences of the last 2 elections, if this Parliament ignores the position, if it allows this dangerous situation to continue whereby democracy is made ridiculous by the inability of individual candidates to match the machines and the hysteria of Party machines becomes even more overpowering, then it will in retrospect look ludicrous and ridiculous. The facts are before us all because we have all been through it. Even those of us who participate only at local level have some inkling of the amounts of money that are changing hands and we have some inkling of the sources of that money. Those who have been in a position to look at election campaigns at a national level are aghast. Policies and principles are more important to the people of Australia than the razzamatazz. We should act responsibly and bring some sanity to bear on the situation. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Before we proceed any further, I draw the attention of honourable senators to the fact that speeches should not be read. 
Is the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation aware of the continuing anti-Labor campaign being waged by the life and general insurance companies? Is it a fact that the insurance companies have set up committees both in the States and in many Federal electorates with the object of discrediting the Government's proposals by whatever means possible? Are the workers on these committees continuing to be paid from policy holders funds, even though much of their time is spent on the conduct of this anti-Labor campaign? Will he ask the committees for an estimate of the costs they are incurring in this campaign so that this information can be made known to policy holders who can then judge for themselves whether such amounts are being spent wisely? Would he agree that, in the light of the gallup poll which showed that 1 9 per cent of all persons polled had no insurance and that 19 per cent of the people polled would transfer business to the proposed Australian Government Insurance Corporation, his carefully orchestrated campaign is ultimately doomed to be an expensive failure? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. The Minister would be aware that the Government sent a delegation to the United Nations Conference on Women that was held in Mexico this year. Can he advise the Senate when a report on that conference is expected to be tabled in the Senate? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, 1 present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Telephone exchange building at Deakin, Australian Capital Territory. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I present the following petition from 1 9 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Parliament should pass the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. 
That an Australian Government Insurance Corporation will benefit all Australian women and men by offering equal opportunity for employment and insurance cover. 
That there is a need to establish in Australia National Interest Insurance so that cover is available against natural disasters. 
That the Australian Government Insurance Corporation will fairly compete with the general and life insurance companies thereby benefiting the industry and the policy holders. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will pass the Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Can the PostmasterGeneral give any further information about the validity of allegations made by a Sydney company that letters for local delivery in Sydney are being sent via Samoa at a cost of only 7'/4c? 
-In rising to support the Budget I point out to  Senator Baume  that the Australian Labor Party has never had to resort to gimmicks to get votes in elections. The Labor Party puts up a policy to people. We do not go out for migrants, women, Aboriginals or 2-headed goats. We just go out for people who believe in Australia. In speaking to the Budget I should like to talk about education and to refer to Victoria which, according to a previous  speaker,  is a State that cares, a State that has done so much, the State which is the most progressive in Australia. Capital grants to Victoria in 1974-75 totalled more than 3 times the previous year's grants. They totalled $58,653,000. This year that State is to receive $49,854,000, and not even with the mathematics that the Minister for Education in Victoria professes to follow could one describe that as a 60 per cent cut. Yet  Mr Thompson  has gone on record as saying that this Government has cut capital grants to Victoria this year by 60 per cent. But that is not odd when one knows a little more about the Minister for Education in Victoria. 
The total for recurring grants to Victoria has increased from $72m to $93m. Yet the Minister for Education in Victoria goes on bleating about the fact that he will be able to do nothing for education in Victoria this year because he has not got the money. The total of general grants, the non-earmarked money for Victoria, has increased by $184m. This is 30 per cent more than Victoria received last year, and it could be spent entirely on education if the priorities in Victoria were as one would hope they would be. There is much talk about economic planning when it comes to managing governments, but when it comes to managing education in Victoria that is a great big giggle. The Victorian Government could not plan if it started now. I have had children going to school in Victoria for the last 25 years. When my eldest children started school in Victoria there was a boom. It was the baby boom that followed the war. We had to turn up at school 2 days before the commencing date to enrol the children. We had to ensure that our children had turned 5 years of age at a minute past 12 on a certain day; otherwise we could not get them into school. 
That might have been understandable if a baby boom came along and the department was caught unawares. But one would think that a government which cared and which planned its economy would have seen from the figures that there was a boom coming in the schools. After these hundreds and hundreds of parents and children turned up at schools for the children to commence their first years of schooling, one would have thought that a government which cared and planned would have known that in 6 years time those children would turn up at technical schools and high schools and that it would have started to plan then to accommodate them. But no. When our children reached the age when they had to go to technical school or high school, what happened? We turned up in the same old queues and we met the same mothers and the same children. Our children still had to have the impossible qualifications- they had to have turned a certain age at a certain minute past a certain hour. So much for the planning there. One might have thought that a government could have been caught unawares then and that it would have planned for when those children went on to tertiary education. Surprise, surprise! There was no planning. There was the same hotch-potch of accommodation for children; there was the same hotch-potch of accommodation for their education. 
Even in a State which cares as much about preschool education as Victoria does, if it had not been for the money that this Federal Government had given to Victoria we would not have been able to get our children into pre-schools. Honourable senators may be surprised to know that there are areas in Victoria where practically nothing has been done for education for a quarter of a century. I am referring not only to the depressed areas of Victoria or of Melbourne, but also to what are referred to as the affluent eastern areas. A new high school was to be built in one area. By September of the year preceding the year in which the high school was to be opened a spade had not been dug into the ground where the school was to be built. This happened under a Minister who has the infernal cheek to turn around and blame the Federal Government which has poured more money into education than he has ever dreamed of. He says that it is because of the Federal Government that he cannot plan a decent education for our children in Victoria. 
In parts of Victoria there are still schools which can get no library grant or no additional assistance because the parents of the children attending those schools cannot raise the first little bit of money that is needed before the Victorian Education Department will match the grant. There are still children who go to schools that are a dust bowl in the summer and a mud heap in the winter. It is only because of the devotion and the inspiration of the teachers and the head teachers in those schools that the children get any sort of assistance at all. Many of them are migrant children. If it had not been for this Government which said that all children are entitled to an education, those migrant children would still be struggling along with no assistance whatsoever. As it is, so many of these migrant children still try to cope with English, which is a new language to them, in the laundry or the toilet or the cloakroom of the school into which they have been plonked. 
I turn to technical education in Victoria. Technical education was not just the  Cinderella  of education in Victoria; it barely existed because, after all, the children receiving technical education came from families who did not matter much. Those children came primarily from areas in which there was a Labor member of Parliament and, after all, that other government was not going to help those sorts of areas. These were the children who were destined to be factory fodder, so far as the previous Government was concerned. After all, what sort of an education does a process worker need? He gets up at 6 o 'clock in the morning and he falls into bed at 8 o 'clock at night. What does he want to know about anything else that goes on in the world, or what else does he want to know about bettering himself in any way? 
The Federal Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  has gone on record as pointing out that the Victorian Government is the most incompetent of any government in Australia when it comes to constructing school buildings. He said: 
No Commonwealth Minister for Education is justified in recommending capital grants for the Victorian Government until it rectifies the chronic incompetence which causes the cost of a state school to be 30 per cent to 50 per cent dearer than better buildings put up by independent schools in the same State. Victoria tolerates school construction periods by State Government authorities up to 5 years where private enterprise, exemplified in the Princes Hill school rebuilding, requires only 2 years. Victoria has demonstrated its callous indifference to the welfare of Victorian schoolchildren in authorising a challenge to the High Court to invalidate grants to non-government schools. 
So much for this very caring Minister for Education in Victoria! To elaborate a little further, the Prices Hill school building was burned down by a firebug. The Minister in Victoria, when he went out to placate angry parents who wanted to know what he was going to do, said that of course he would have the building up in 2 years. He went back to his Department which said: You must be mad. It takes us at least 3 years and generally 5 years'. But because he had gone out and said to a group of parents that of course he would do it in 2 years, he took the construction of that school out of the usual channels and got the school built in 2 years. Surprise, surprise, there was a State election coming up. This is the Government which cares so much for the people of Victoria and which is so efficient that it has gone on record as challenging the Regional Employment Development scheme. It was the same Premier-  Mr Hamer  of Victoria- who, before the presentation of this Budget, loudly and long claimed that the Government must not cut back on the provision of money under the RED scheme, must spend even more under the RED scheme and must not take time off to judge just what that scheme has done for Australia and how much assistance it had been to be to people who are out of work but must go on pouring money into all the schemes that all the Liberal municipal councils in Victoria and the Liberal Government in Victoria had promoted. Where is the morality in that? On the one hand the scheme is challenged in the High Court and on the other there is a demand that more money be poured into it. 
Another area that has received some attention in this debate on the Budget is the area of increased postage charges. I was intrigued enough about this matter to go back and find out just how much postage has been charged over the years in comparison with the amount of the basic wage. I discovered that in 1920, when the postage was 2d, the basic wage was $7; that in 1956, when the postage was 4d, the basic wage was $38.40; and that in 1971, when the postage was 7c, the basic wage was $93. In 1975 the postage rate is 18c and the average weekly earnings are $150. This is not a great deal of difference. When one takes into consideration the fact that this Parliament accepted the report that said that the Post Office should pay, it makes one think that one should have another look at how much we are going to pay for a postage stamp. Of course there will be a few people who will be experiencing difficulty paying 18c for a postage stamp, but I suggest that the difficulty arises not because they cannot afford it- I do not really believe that the ordinary person sends very many letters- but because they have been promoted into thinking that they are very hard done by. 
Let us look at the people who have been vocal in their protests in this respect. Today we had socialites in Toorak in Victoria organising a demonstration outside the Toorak Post Office and claiming that on their fixed incomes they were finding it very difficult to cover the postage of their letters- presumably invitations to their dinner parties- and saying that in future they would have to deliver them on their trendy bicycles. A fat lot they cared about ordinary people being able to post letters to their ailing mothers or sisters. And what fixed incomes some of them would be on. 
How many letters do pensioners send to each other?  Mr Hamer  is another person who has complained bitterly because he will not be able to send out this year 800 Christmas cards that he usually sends out. Those 800 Christmas cards cost  Mr Hamer  $80 to post last year. This year it would cost him $ 1 44 to post the same number. The difference is $64. It makes one's heart bleed to think that one might not get a card from  Mr Hamer  this year because on his salary he might not be able to afford to send one. Other people who have been most vocal about the postage rates are the Christmas card manufacturers. They are a group of people whose morals are very high! They promote the sending of cards for sore toes, the sending of birthday cards to third cousins twice removed, the sending of cards because of the occurrence of a rainy day in the week, and the sending of best wishes to ancient senators who have been dismissed from the Senate. What sort of hypocrisy is it for a card manufacturer to say that we are going to prohibit communication between people when all the card manufacturers have been doing over the years is taking the joy out of sending a message to a fellow human being and promoting greeting cards into a million dollar industry by pushing people into all sorts of stupid and impossible situations. Their cards have become more and more ridiculous, more and more expensive and more and more distasteful. Last Christmas one was lucky if one could find a Christmas card that cost less than 50c. Much to everyone's surprise they have suddenly found that it is possible to produce a card that is cheaper than that. They are now talking about producing cheaper Christmas cards. 
I turn now to the voluntary organisations that are producing Christmas cards as a method of raising money for all sorts of reasons. All I can say to the voluntary organisations which have become upset about the fact that they may not sell so many Christmas cards because people may not be able to afford the postage- which I dispute- is that there is a better way of doing the things in the community that should be done than by having dear ladies selling Christmas cards at extraordinary prices and then using the bulk of the money for the running of the organisations and a little of it for doing good. The world has gone past the day when one would take calves-foot jelly to deserving cases. 
This Government believes that all children are deserving of education, irrespective of whether they are mentally retarded, and that it is the responsibility of government to provide that education and not the responsibility of flower hatted ladies. We believe that people who are in sad circumstances and who do not have enough money to pay rent or buy food or clothing should get it as a right and not in order to make somebody else's conscience safe. That is why I say that those dear ladies who now find that they may not have a cause for which to run their bridge parties and for which to sell their Christmas cards should find something better to do in the community. By the way, the increased postage rates may even save us from the eternal  Encyclopaedia Britannica  brochures that appear in our letter boxes time and time again. I really feel that Encyclopaedia Britannica sank to the lowest depths when it had to use the Freedom from Hunger Campaign to distribute its brochures. 
It inevitably sends one the bill, and the book if one does not watch out. This week the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Fraser)  came out and said that a LiberalCountry Party government would show more concern for the needy than the Australian Labor Party would. He promised people greater freedom and more choice under a Liberal-Country Party government. He said that the Government's philosophy of trying to provide more and more services through government means higher taxes and a reduction of the incomes controlled by individuals.  Mr Fraser  and the Opposition Parties he represents presumably mean that the people of this country had greater freedom and more choice in the 23 years prior to the Australian Labor Party coming to office. He did not notice in that time that the needy should have been shown more concern. He and the Opposition Parties conveniently did not notice throughout all those years that the pensioners had to be assisted. This Government had to come into power before people realised that pensioners existed, that they were human beings and that one did not shoot them if they were old, cold and needy but that one had to give them an income and treat them like human beings. 

 Mr Fraser did not notice that the single mothers had children to raise and needed a pension and that their children needed to be treated like human beings, but now he says that the Opposition Parties have noticed. We are so pleased as must be the homeless people who for years and years had to rely upon the charity of all sorts of organisations or else sleep in a park and go hungry, and as must be the deserted children and the isolated children. After all, one would think that a Liberal-Country Party government would have taken into account that there are children, that there are parents and that there are women who live in extraordinarily isolated circumstances and who have as much right to a good education and to converse with their fellows as has anybody else, but what did it do about it? Honourable senators opposite are the ones who say that they speak for the country people, yet what did they do for them apart from providing the Leader of the Opposition with a superphosphate bounty? 
The Government does not believe that we need agencies in every quarter of the globe to distribute the goods of this world to the people to whom it wants to distribute them. We believe that people have a right as human beings to be treated as human beings, to have an income, to go to a doctor when they are sick, to go to a hospital when they are sick and to have an education because they are human beings. We do not need a proliferation of agencies telling us where that aid is needed or to whom it should be given. On behalf of all those people- the aged, the isolated and the handicapped who through 2 elections and through 3 sessions of this Parliament assured us that they wanted a Medibank scheme and that they wanted it now- I ask this House to support this Budget. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Social Security, follows that asked previously by my colleague. Obviously the Minister would know of discussion in the community about the financing of nursing homes. Can the Minister give the Senate information as to the number of nursing homes helped by the system of deficit financing introduced last April? How much has been spent on this to date and what amount is budgeted for the next financial year? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Media. The Minister for the Media, and indeed the Minister representing him in this place, would be aware that because this is International Women's Year the Australian Broadcasting Commission made time and facilities available to women employed in the ABC to produce a radio program entitled  The Coming Out Ready Or Not Show.  As this program has proved so popular, as indeed it should being one of the most intelligent shows broadcast, has the Minister considered investigating the possibilities of making facilities available for and encouraging a similar program on television? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Police and Customs. I believe that an X-ray machine has been developed to help in identifying the contents of overseas letters and packages being processed by customs officers at mail exchanges. Can the Minister tell me how effective is this machine and whether it will be widely used by the Department of Police and Customs? 
Is the Minister for Agriculture aware of reports that increases in private wool buying are undermining the auction system? Is the situation as serious as claimed and, if so, what is being done to curtail private wool buying? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. The Minister's attention would have been drawn to the statement made by the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Melbourne in today's Melbourne  Age  that the introduction of Medibank has brought with it a substantial easing of the financial burden which has confronted so many at a time of sickness. Can the Minister assure the Senate that, despite the fact that Victorian public hospitals are faced with the withdrawal of the services of all sections of the medical profession unless a compromise plan is reached over surgeons' working conditions, the majority of people in Victoria who voted for a proper medical health service will be properly catered for? 
Is the Minister for Police and Customs aware of a radio talk-back program which went to air in Canberra last night and which discussed the establishment of the Australia Police Force? Did any of the radio personalities involved in that program contact or attempt to contact the Minister or his office prior to or during the course of the program? If the answer to this question is no, will the Minister advise whether he is prepared to speak to radio announcers from radio station 2CA should they desire to obtain factual information relating to the Australia Police rather than have them left in their present state which could not be described as knowledgeable? 
-I find this a rather sick and sad debate. For the third time we rise to talk about achieving some sort of electoral justice in Australia. We are treated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  to a rather blase, off-the-cuff, throw-away laugh about democracy and morals. I suppose that is indicative of the moral political climate which has deteriorated so rapidly in Australia over the last few months to the point where two State Premiers are thumbing their noses at the Constitution and disfranchising voters through the appointments they have made to the Senate. It seems to me rather sad that people of our ages come here and legislate to give the vote to 18- year-olds and then set them that sort of example, with glib talk about democracy and morals and about people's involvement in the government of this country. These Bills endeavour to put value back into people's votes. It seems rather banal now to talk about democracy and what has happened to it, but when people are appointed to the Senate at the whim of a State Premier rather than by means of the votes of the people in that State being followed it makes democracy look rather sick. 
I know it is like talking to a brick wall, and that what I say here unfortunately is not going to change one vote on the other side. It is not going to niggle at one conscience and make people think what the Senate is supposed to be about. But let us consider once again why in Victoria, for instance, a redistribution is needed. The seat of Diamond Valley has 86 000 votes and the seat of Wimmera has 49 000 votes, a difference of 43 per cent, and Wimmera is not all that far from civilisation. In Victoria there are seats like Burke, which have 83 000 votes, and seats like Mallee, which have 49 500 votes, a difference of 41 per cent. There are seats like Holt with 80 000 votes and Wannon with 53 000 votes, a difference of 34 per cent; La Trobe with 86 000 votes and Indi with 54 000 votes, a difference of 33 per cent; Bruce with 77 000 votes and Melbourne Ports with 55 000 votes, a difference of 29 per cent. None of those places are so far from civilisation that they need those additional votes. Since 1 968 the numbers in Bruce have increased by 27 000, in Diamond Valley by 35 000, in Burke by 35 000, in Holt by 32 000 and in La Trobe by 31 000. Those are not insignificant numbers. They are all voters, and as such they are all entitled to proper representation, as are the people in Wimmera, where the number of voters has increased by 2900, in Mallee where it has increased by 440, in Wannon where it has increased by 5400 and in Indi where it has increased by 7900. 
Could I ask again why we need a redistribution. We are not back in the days of the horse and buggy. If we are talking about proper representation for electors, if we are talking about how members of Parliament can represent their electorate properly, then we are talking about something else. We are talking about communications between parliamentarians and their electors, and in these days when we have motor cars, aeroplanes, telephones, newspapers and postage, when we do not rely on horses and carrier pigeons, it seems absolutely ludicrous to say that country members should represent smaller numbers of people than city members. A member of Parliament with a seat with 56 000 voters in the middle of a city, where people have problems and need to talk to somebody about those problems, is as beleaguered in that city electorate, which may stretch for miles, as a member of Parliament in the seat of Wimmera, who does not have a great deal of distance to cover. In fact, he has to go from one town to the next and when he gets there he has less people to talk to than has the city member. We are talking about two different things. We are talking on the one hand about a democratic principle in which one member represents a certain number of people and on the other hand we are talking about the ability of a member to represent his people properly. With modern aids, that is a ludicrous comparison to make. 
The Country Party has a point to make in relation to Victoria. Under the redistribution Wimmera, which is a very small seat and in the scale of things represents few people, is to disappear and the Liberals are to get a new seat of Doncaster-Templestowe; or at least the Liberals presume that they are going to get that seat. But here is the rub. The good solid Country Party voters from Wimmera will go to Mallee, which is a good solid Country Party seat- not represented ably, but the Country Party voters in Mallee still have to learn that lesson. The rest of the voters from Wimmera go to Ballarat, Bendigo and Wannon, seats which are all held at the moment by the Liberal Party. Perhaps that is why the Country Party is so upset about the redistribution, not because it is worried that the voters in those areas are not going to be properly represented but because they are going to be represented by the Liberal Party, and the Country Party is not very happy about that. 
But the cabbage patch you have is very close to your heart and you do not want to give it away to the Liberal Party, even if you are the best mates in the world. The Government is accused continually with this nonsense of attempting to reduce the opportunity of country people to enjoy at least some equality of political representation with city people. In those circumstances we might look closely at the sort of representation those areas have. Perhaps the people of Bendigo, Ballarat and Wannon will think again about electing even a Liberal Party member. They might decide that a Labor Party member who really understands the problems of the ordinary people in those areas, of whom there is a great number, might come closer to bringing those places back into the 20th century. All that nonsense about inequality might have had some validity in the old days when the world was wide, but these days we can put a man on the moon or cross the world in less than a day. A message can go from point A to point B in almost no time, but still we have this nonsense about inequality of representation for country people. 
I believe that the voters have a lot more common sense and know a lot more about the ways of the world than my friends in the Opposition give them credit for. I do not really believe that people in the country feel that they are being deprived of anything. I think they feel as one with the city people in that they want the sort of representation that everybody else has and they want good representation for everybody. They have a great feeling for fairness, and although people sneer at the principle of one vote one value, I believe that the ordinary people of this country are closer to understanding the principle of a fair go for everybody than are their representatives. The Country Party is worried about losing one of its seats in Victoria. If its first thought was for the people it represents then it would be above worrying about whether it was going to lost a seat and the Liberals were going to gain a seat. It would be more concerned with the democratic principle which is at the heart of the Bills, that is, that we have a Constitution which provides that all people should be represented equally. That idea has been canvassed around this country for a long time, and the Government insists that a vast number of people in Australia do not believe that their votes should be of less value, should be worth half or one-third or one-fifth of votes in other electorates. The Government believes that the good sense of the people in the country will back it up. Those people do not really need a BjelkePetersen to sneer at the Constitution, to sneer at electors, to put into the Senate people whom he has never seen, to find some miserable way of manipulating the Constitution in order to take it out of the hands of the ordinary people and gain some miserable advantage for himself. 
The day will come when the ordinary people of this country will be really fed up with the Opposition's attitude and will say 'Enough is enough. You have been moralising at us for years. You have been telling us that the Constitution must work this way and we must behave ourselves that way'. The 18-year olds to whom we gave the vote will turn around and say: 'You gave us the vote after a great deal of push and shove. You finally decided that as well as an 1 8-year old being old enough to go out and be killed and old enough to kill the sons of other women we can also have a say in government. Finally, you gave us a say in the government. Now, for goodness sake, have the moral guts to stand up and live by the Constitution that you have been shoving down our necks for years. Have the guts to stand up and say that the Constitution says that all people- not some people but all people- will be represented on an equal basis. ' Honourable senators opposite should not drag in the red herrings of the distances they have to travel. Do not drag in the red herrings that we live far enough away - 
Everybody is equal in this country. It is not a case of some people being more equal than others. These Bills endeavour to make the votes of everybody equal. 
Distances cause troubles in communication. Distances do not make some people more equal than others. I should like to quote  Mr Malcolm  Mackerras-- 
I live a long way from everywhere, senator. 
-We all live a long way from everywhere. As  Senator Davidson  said in the debate on the Railways Agreement (South Australia) Bill the other day, before the Labor Government came into power he could make arrangements to travel by train with some comfort, but since the Labor Government came into office in South Australia he has to travel with everybody else in discomfort. I am sick of the argument about some people being more comfortable and some people less comfortable. I am sick of that very facile argument about how some people need special consideration- which has been raised on an electoral Bill of all thingsbecause they live further away from some places than other people do. 
I obviously live a long way from South Australia. May I, in conclusion,  Mr Deputy President-  despite your friend who has such trouble because he lives such a long way from everywhere- quote Malcolm Mackerras whom everybody has quoted as being an authority on electoral matters and who, in days gone by, has been quoted by the Opposition as being very close to its heart. Malcolm Mackerras, in referring to redistribution, said: 
In overall political terms the 1975 redistribution is the fairest set of proposed boundaries ever to be presented to any Australian Parliament in my lifetime. The Commissioners have bent over backwards to avoid any suggestion of gerrymander. My impression is that they have set out to draw boundaries so patently fair that rejection by the Senate would reflect discredit on the Senate and not on the Commissioners. 
May I say that the Senate, in rejecting these Bills again, will not bring itself any credit. 
-Has the Special Minister of State seen a Press report in the  Age  newspaper of 13 September that the methods now being adopted by the Prices Justification Tribunal as regards retail prices will result in higher prices to provide higher profit margins for those companies? How would he reconcile this with the function of the Tribunal to maintain restraint on prices? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health: In view of what appears to be a growing practice of inducing births in office hours- that is between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m.- would he inform the Senate whether the Australian Medical Association supports such a practice? Can he also say whether or not any research is being undertaken or proposed on the possible physical or mental effects this practice might have on mother and /or child? 
I direct my question to the Special Minister of State. On 2 October, the Prime Minister officially opened the Australian National Scientific and Technological Library in a ceremony at the National Library of Australia. I ask the Minister: What is the significance of this development for the library services in Australia? How does the Scientific and Technological Library relate to the other services provided by the National Library? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it true, as alleged by  Mr Brian  Jacques, secretary of the Private Geriatric Hospitals Association of Victoria, that the present parliamentary situation will mean the closure of dozens of nursing homes in Victoria by Christmas? Will the Minister assure this chamber that this will not be the case and that patients in these nursing homes will continue to receive their nursing home benefit entitlements as well as their pensions? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Police and Customs and I refer to a report which appeared in the  Financial Review  on 17 October concerning the effect of the current political climate upon the Australia Police Bill. Can the Minister advise the Senate of the planned course of progress of this piece of Government legislation? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974,I present the report relating to the following proposed works: 
Multi-storey ward block at Repatriation General Hospital, Greenslopes, Queensland. 
-I present the following  petition from 53 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the natural environment of Fraser Island is so outstanding that it should be identified as part of the World Natural Heritage, and whereas the Island should be conserved for the enjoyment of this and future generations, 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the members, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
That the Australian Government uses its constitutional powers to prohibit the export of any mineral sands from Fraser Island, and 
That the Australian Government uses its constitutional authority to assist the Queensland Government and any other properly constituted body to develop and conserve the recreational, educational and scientific potentials of the natural environment of Fraser Island for the long term benefit of the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Can the Minister for Police and Customs please advise the Senate as to the continuity of his Department's computer service, bearing in mind that the Minister recently advised the Senate that his departmental funds would expire on 27 November unless the Appropriation Bills were passed prior to that date? Could the Minister also advise what effects there would be if the Department of Police and Customs computer system ceased to operate? 
Has the Special Minister of State seen statements attributed to various spokesmen of the Opposition which suggest that the Government interfered with the basis of compilation of the consumer price index for the September quarter? Is it a fact that the Statistician and the Bureau of Statistics are responsible for the compilation of the consumer price index? Will the Minister confirm the independence and integrity of the Statistician and assure the Senate that the unfounded statements by Opposition spokesmen on this matter are false? 
I present the following petition from 52 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we are fearful that any further delay by the Senate of the Loan Bill and Appropriation Bills will bring Australia into a constitutional, economic and social crisis, leaving indelible scars on our democratic institutions. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should proceed forthwith to allow passage of these Bills so that the Government, legitimately formed by a majority of the members of the peoples' House (the House of Representatives) may proceed with its administration without further disruption. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Can the Minister for Police and Customs advise why the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations were recently amended to include certain items of apparel from Hong Kong, Macao and the Republic of Korea? 
-I ask for leave of the Senate to lay on the table a document signed by 262 citizens of Australia calling on the Senate to withdraw its threat to reject the Budget and expressing the view that any other action by the Senate could endanger the future of democracy in Australia. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. On 10 September 1975 the Minister was asked whether it was true that the Director of the Hospital Contributions Fund of Australia in New South Wales,  Mr Turner,  and the General Manager of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Ltd in New South Wales,  Mr Cade,  had recently had salary increases raising their annual earnings from $31,000 to $50,000. The Minister was further asked whether he would present the Senate with a rundown of the salaries and allowances of officials of all or any of the major health insurance funds. Has the Minister been able to obtain the information from the funds? 
-I do not think 1 could do better in this debate than to open with this quotation: 
If the Parliament becomes unworkable by destruction of convention, democracy itself becomes unworkable because democracy rests much more on adherence to convention than to the rigid application  of rules  and laws. 
That statement, honourable senators might be surprised to know, was made by the Leader of the Opposition in another place  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)-  this gentleman who is now so concerned that the people of Australia should be allowed to come out and have their say; this gentleman who is so obsessed with the will to rule and the greed for power that he does not care what happens to the ordinary people in Australia. I think the remarks attributable to the Honourable D. J. Killen, MP, have been mentioned before in this debate- but then there is very little that has not been mentioned before and I think this should be mentioned again. I refer to the remarks he was reported, in the  National Times  in February 1972, as having made. This was at a time when 'convention' was still a word that was allowable in this place. He said: 
One of the worst infringements of the conventions of Cabinet government which has ever occurred took place in Australia. 
In March 1971, Malcolm Fraser resigned from the Gorton Government. The ostensible reason he gave to Parliament for his resignation was that  Mr Gorton  did not repudiate a report involving  Mr Fraser. 
Views on tha-, issue remain unsettled. But the really remarkable part of  Mr Fraser's  speech lay in his criticism of an incident that took place eight months before his resignation. 
Evidently  Mr Fraser  was not as indignant about conventions in. those days as he is now.  Mr Killen  continues: 
In his speech to Parliament,  Mr Fraser  claimed that a plan was prepared in July 1970, for a call-out of the Pacific Islands regiment to deal with possible confrontation with the Mataungan Association in the Gazelle Peninsula. 

 Mr Fraser further claimed that he knew nothing of the plan until July 14, and that the plan had not been approved of by the Cabinet. 

 Mr Fraser himself admitted that the Cabinet did meet on July 19, - 
That was 5 days later-  and he,  Mr Fraser,  signed the call-out order . . . If  Mr Fraser  had felt aggrieved by any action of  Mr Gorton  regarding the call-out order, then he should have promptly resigned. He chose not to. He let eight months go by before voicing his complaint ...  Mr Fraser  chose to ignore a fundamental convention of government. The cosmetic of time may or may not hide the blemish. 
That was not said by members of this Government but by one of  Mr Fraser's  colleagues. So much for this Opposition of integrity; so much for this Opposition that talks about an incompetent government. The Opposition talks about credibility. The greed for power seems to have slightly changed its members' way of thinking. We hear all the waffling in the world against a man like the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)-  a man of high purpose and vision- from  Mr Fraser  whose integrity was displayed in 1972. It makes one wonder why these people in the Opposition are so anxious to get back into the saddle and why they are so anxious to get back the power that they misused for 23 years. I have a feeling it is not because they want to help the lower income earners or the large mass of Australian people. 
We only have to go back to the opposition they put up against schemes like Medibank to have our question answered and to know why they want to be back in the saddle. We only have to go back and look at their record in education and at the valiant fight they put up to return to that system of education whereby the privileged were educated and the un-privileged were used as factory fodder. We remember their fight against the Trade Practices Act. Then we remember the people who pay the bills when it comes to election time and we know why they want to remove such legislation as the Trade Practices Act. At the moment the Legal Aid Bill is on its way. We know from surveys that have been taken how many people in Australia want a Bill such as the Legal Aid Bill. We know that something like 89 per cent of Liberal voters and 92 per cent of Labor voters were in favour of the legislation. We remember also that something like 84 per cent of the people who had never heard of our proposal for legal aid said, when the proposal was put to them, that if there was one thing that was needed to bring justice to the ordinary people of Australia it was the Legal Aid Bill. 
We remember the things that this Government has done for women and children. For 23 years women and children were forgotten people in Australia. They were used as cheap labour. Children were parked in all sorts of places. Nobody really gave a damn whether children had rights or were treated as human beings. This Government has come in and given women, as people, rights and dignity. We have given women and workers some hope that they may be able to go about their daily tasks with some peace of mind as to how the children- our dearest possessionswill be looked after while the women work for a living, in the main, and for so me while they work to give their expertise to this country. We look at the migrants to whom we finally brought dignity, decency and recognition. 
Then we wonder where are all these people who the Opposition tells us are demanding that we have an election? They certainly are not the 1 8 year olds who were denied a vote by this Opposition for 23 years but who the Opposition was very happy to send out to fight its wars. It was not until this Government came into power that these people were given a vote and a responsibility in the country. The ethnic communities certainly are not demanding that we have an election. They have come out in their thousands and demanded that this Government be allowed to govern and that Supply be allowed to go through. The Aborigines are not demanding an election. They have demonstrated in most of the capital cities in Australia that they want this Government to be given a chance to put its policies into practice. The old age pensioner organisations have declared that they want this Government to continue; that they recognise that in the short period this Government has been in office the wants of old age pensioners have been recognised; and that rather than being given a kiss on the cheek and a 50c rise every 12 months they have been treated as people. 
The Opposition would have us believe that the unions are at loggerheads with this Government. But be they blue collar or white collar unions, their members have come out in their thousands during the last 2 weeks and have maintained that the Government that they voted for in 1972 and 1 974 was the Government that represented them and the Government that they wanted to continue. Thousands of people have been in the streets over this issue during the last couple of weeks. If there has been one surprise in this whole affair it has been that ordinary people have understood this constitutional crisis- no matter how much the Opposition tells us it is not a constitutional crisis, it is- and have taken the matter to heart. They have had the guts to come out in the street and to say: 'We do not want this Government to be put out on this issue. We want it to continue its normal term'. Leading constitutional lawyers in Australia have come out and said that the conventions that go with the Constitution should be observed. 
There have been letters to the editor which were overwhelmingly in support of this Government. One has to admit that newspapers have not always been on the side of this Government so one can hardly say that the editors of all the big daily newspapers would have managed that in some way. The business community is now coming out and saying that the Appropriation Bills should be passed. The business community here in Canberra is saying that because the Senate has rejected the Budget- those are their words, not mine- their businesses are being affected and that the whole tenor of the business community is being upset. Hundreds of letters and telegrams have been received from ordinary people who have taken the trouble to sit down and write to one of us on this side of the House or on the other side of the House to say that they do not like what is going on. They do not like the possibilities that they can see. They want the Senate to act as an adult body. Today we have Liberal voters saying much the same thing. In the Melbourne  Age  of this morning there is an article on a survey which states: 
While an overwhelming majority of Labor voters think the Senate should allow Supply to pass, a significant minority of those who said they voted Liberal at the 1974 elections (41 per cent) also share this view. 
Nearly 17 per cent of previous Liberal voters also think the Labor Government should be allowed to continue governing. 
Where is the support left among the poor divided Opposition? The Opposition is divided as to what its future course should be. How did this all start? Who started the Opposition on this course of action? It seems to be an action heading for the edge of the big drop. Who feeds the Opposition these sorts of ideas? Who convinces the Opposition that it represents the people of Australia when 2 elections should show that it is not in command but in opposition? I have a transcript of part of an  AM  broadcast, reported by Peter Barnett. It is headed: 
Washington admits it has been monitoring cables and telexes  to certain  foreign countries, including Australia, for the last 30 years. 
The report states: 
Some years ago it began to dawn on some countries that telexes and cables sent to them from their official representatives in Washington were secretly being monitored by the United States Government. It then became an open secret and now Washington's come clean and admitted that they have, in fact, been monitoring cables and telexes for the last 30 years to SO foreign countries including Australia and to broadcasting organisations such as our own. 
Peter Barnett who is a credible reporter stated: 
Until last May, agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation or the super secret, super powerful National Security Agency would pay a daily call on the Washington offices of International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation and the Radio Corporation of America. 
Peter Barnett goes on with some details about the House Intelligence Sub-committee but he finishes up stating: 
It's virtually certain that regular messages from the Australian Embassy to Canberra were read by these agents and so too was all traffic to the ABC. 
I wonder whether that sort of information from the Federal Bureau of Investigation was transmitted to our friends in Opposition who somehow then had the feelings of being born to rule - 
Feelings of grandeur, elaborated and expanded. Did they feel that because of the sort of information they were being handed by the FBI and because of the sort of information they were being handed about all sorts of other transactions of government which were going on, they really were the rulers and that they could use any means they liked- such as the FBI obviously used- to get back on to the government benches of this country? This is the Opposition which has taken the Senate into a strike situation. It is a strange thing that men, whose only thing they have to sell is their labour, and who go on strike for decent wages or conditions are vilified by honourable senators opposite for holding up the country and the whole manufacturing industry to ransom. Yet when people like members of the Opposition in the Senate or members of the Australian Medical Association go on strike, somehow they are thought to be heroes. Honourable senators opposite will not take the step. They are like kids playing cricket; they will not go out. They will not change the rules and they will not abandon the match. They just take their bat and go home, leaving the rest of the teams standing on the field. 
The Opposition will not amend the Budget. It will not refuse to pass the Budget. It admits that it is a good Budget because it says: 'When you have submitted to our blackmail, then we will pass the Budget'. Obviously the Opposition has no objection to the Budget. It just goes on strike. Until the Opposition gets its own way, it will not play. But it has no alternative. This country expects members of the Senate to act like adult senators, like people who have been put into the Senate to represent the people and to govern the country. Honourable senators are not expected to act like spoilt children who want their lollipops returned to them. Perhaps some honourable senators do not have the courage to take the step. But why do they not act like men and at least reject the Budget? I suggest they do something positive. Why do they not amend? It is because they have no policy. They do not know what to amend or what to do. That is why we cannot have honourable senators opposite as the government of this country. We cannot take the risk of what they would do to this country. In closing I shall read yet another quotation from a member of the Opposition, it states: 
There are many challenges to the preservation of Parliament. There are forces within our community, some of great power, that do not believe in Parliamentary government. There are economic and social problems which the Parliament has not yet been able to solve. These problems alone would be daunting for present legislators and Ministers. If we add to that list the problems created by the behaviour of Parliament itself, the destruction of convention, the defiance of reason, the pursuit of power without concern for the rights or privileges of minorities, then Australians will have little faith in the future of Australian democracy. 
That statement was made by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser on 2 March 1975. That comes from the man who has put this poor divided Senate Opposition to the jump in order to find an argument to justify the Opposition's rejection of the Appropriation Bills and in order to try to blackmail its way back into power. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Media. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports that in this current political crisis the Australian Broadcasting Commission has been participating in the distortion and manipulation of news? Is it a fact that the people of Australia are being subjected to such a devious and deceptive plan emanating from ABC radio and television? 
In addressing my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs I refer to the Minister's reply to a question from  Senator 
Everett yesterday concerning the discussions in Rome between the Indonesian and Portuguese Foreign Ministers on the future of Portuguese Timor. In his answer the Minister indicated that he had not received formal advice on the outcome of the discussions. Can the Minister now inform the Senate whether he has any further information on these talks? 
I present the following petition from 3 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we arc fearful that any further delay by the Senate of the Loan Bill and Appropriation Bills will bring Australia into a constitutional, economic and social crisis, leaving indelible scars on our democratic institutions. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate,"in Parliament assembled, should proceed forthwith to allow passage of these Bills so that the government, legitimately formed by a majority of the members of the people's House (the House of Representatives) may proceed with its administration without further disruption. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Police and Customs. I believe that the new contingent of Australian police for Cyprus is due to leave Australia shortly. Could the Minister inform the Senate why the contingent has been reduced in number from 35 to 1 6? 

 -Mr President, I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That the Senate ask the Government to make such funds available as will enable projects commenced during International Womens Year 1975 to continue and be expanded, and take urgent and immediate steps to eliminate all forms of discrimination against women in Australia, and to actively encourage the elimination of discrimination against women in all parts of the world. 
I have always had a greater affection, I must say, for the literary branch of the senator's family than I have for the legal branch, but I hope the honourable senator will bring the best of both of those worlds to this very important office. I congratulate him on being elected. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. As it is a fact that as early as last October all educational bodies in Australia were sent a letter inviting their participation in the innovation grants scheme funded from special projects grants and that in January of this year a further circular had to be sent advising all those bodies that, as there were so many applications, those applications received after 15 February would have to be returned to the senders until more funds were made available, I ask: How can the Minister explain his recent Press release in which he justified the cut of $800,000 in special projects grants in each 6 months of this calendar year by saying that the innovation scheme was slow to start for a number of reasons and that it was unlikely that the total funds for the year would be spent? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. In reply to a question I asked yesterday, the Minister again stated that the innovation programs were very slow to start. Can he therefore tell me how many applications have been received by the Department of Education since such applications were first invited in October of last year? What proportion of those applications does he expect to be funded and what total of grants would be required to fund those applications outstanding? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security and Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Child Care Matters. In answer to a question last week the Minister advised: 
There is to be a slowing down of some of the programs which have already been approved . . . 
This is in the field of child care- 
The slowing down amounts to something like $ 1 .75m. It is in the slowing down of these programs that we are seeking the priorities of the State advisory bodies. 
Will the Minister therefore advise where cuts making up the balance of the $9m cut made in child care- that is some $7.25m- will be made? What projects will be affected? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. In a recent Press release the Minister advised that funds provided for major education programs were essentially unchanged but that minor adjustments had been made to government spending in some areas. Will the Minister advise why the cuts had to be made in the innovation programs and were they made at the instigation of any of the State Ministers for Education and, if so which Ministers? 
-In rising to speak to this Bill I must say that  Senator Jessop  has reminded me forcibly of the argument that was put forward by the coalition Parties when postal charges were increased. At that time we were told that we were making the poor old pensioners suffer, that they would not be able to communicate with their loved ones, that all sorts of dire possibilities were in front of them, that they were going to be isolated- shocking things were going to happen to them- because we were increasing the price of stamps to make the postal department pay its way as a business. But when it comes to charges for pharmaceuticals we are told that the poor old pensioners can go to the nearest public hospital. It must be remembered that people in this category are not all elderly pensionersit includes women with small childrenand the public hospital may be a long way away. I think that this makes the argument of honourable senators opposite about postal charges look even more foolish than it looked at that time. 
Speaking about pensioners, I must say that this Bill confuses me in some ways. Under the existing legislation such pensioners as those receiving the supporting mother's benefit were entitled to subsidies. They had to pay 75c of the $1.50 cost of a prescription. I am not sure whether people in that category are still entitled to half the cost of a prescription under this Bill or whether they will have to pay the full $2. If we put them in the position of having to pay $2 it seems to me that we will have very effectively reduced their income by that amount. Many people, particularly women with small children in the household, go to their doctor with some regularity and are given many prescriptions. Their incomes will be very effectively cut by the cost of those prescriptions. 
In talking to pharmacists about this Bill I have found that a point that several of them have made to me over and over is that a vast majority of the prescriptions they handle do not cost $2 to make up, yet people are going to be fronting up with prescriptions for which they will have to pay $2. How many times is an ordinary person going to front up to a chemist with a prescription for a liquid APC which, off the shelf, is going to cost him a lot less than $2 and for which he will have to hand over $2 in order to get a bottle with a label on it? If one really wants to rubbish a system this is a great way of going about it because people will say: 'That is nonsense. I could not be bothered with it', and will tear up the prescription instead of paying the $2 to have it made up. So fewer people will use the system and it will be shown to be less and less useful to the community. The next time we turn around no benefit will be available to people in this respect, but the pharmaceutical companies will continue to make the nice profits they now make. One cannot help wondering how parents who have three or four children who all go down at the same time with measles or influenza will be able to afford to front up to a chemist and pay $16 for, say, 8 disprin prescriptions that are very ordinary remedies for common diseases. It seems to me that we have moved from the area of helping people who are sick and are determined to make everything pay. It seems that the cost of the scheme is more important than the idea behind it. 
Another point brought to my attention by certain chemists is that if costs are really a problem in this area of pharmaceuticals the Government could do something to reduce those costs by assisting pharmaceutical companies to bring about some rationalisation in certain areas or suggesting that they do so. They pointed out that in the area of drugs of great use, such as  Valium,  which modern-day doctors are very prone to use, and penicillin, there are very many different brands of such ordinary pharmaceutical products and that because there are so many different brands of exactly the same product but in different packets the costs have gone up. Because the detailers who work for the pharmaceutical companies lobby the doctors to use their particular product chemists are forced to carry many different brands of those products and so costs go up. Penicillin is penicillin is penicillin. Why, in an area that means life or death to people, do we have to be caught up in having different packets, different tubes, different colouring? Why can we not get down to the saving of people's lives and suffering? 
The statement made by  Senator Baume  this morning about the waste at the point of distribution fascinates me. Evidently it is the patient's fault if a lazy doctor writes out 6 different prescriptions because he thinks that his patient might have one of the symptoms with which one of those prescriptions would deal Evidently it is the patient's fault if wastage goes on and we are forced to pay out of government funds for all those prescriptions. I thought the patients, who sometimes have a good idea of what is wrong with them and who even now get asked by their doctor what seems to be the matter with them, went to their doctors because they had the expertise to deal with their problems. Now we have been told that it is the patient 's fault and that, because he is foolish enough to accept what the doctor hands him at that point irrespective of whether he needs it or not, we have a wastage in the system. 

 Senator Jessop suggested that if doctors knew that the patients had to pay for the medicines they received the doctors perhaps would be more concerned about the type and cost of the medicines they prescribed for their patients. I can remember it being pointed out in debates on the national health scheme that many doctors knew that more expensive medication than they were giving their patients would go a long way towards alleviating the condition the patients suffered and in some cases towards saving their lives or prolonging their lives but that they did not prescribe those medications because they knew that their patients could not afford them. Are we going back to the position where the doctor will first of all have to assess the patient's income and then decide what he will prescribe and whether that patient will either live or get over whatever complaint he has more quickly or with more comfort. 
It was suggested that if doctors were to prescribe for 6-month periods or in greater bulk on their prescription forms that would overcome some of the financial burden. It also would mean that a doctor would have to make some inquiries as to his patient's financial position before he makes such a judgment. The question was asked: 
Where is the dignity in that? We thought we were having a health scheme under which people could go about their affairs with dignity and could front up as human beings who were ill and be treated for their illness and not as human beings who had money and were given first class treatment or human beings who did not have money and therefore had to be content with second class treatment. The whole idea behind a national health scheme is to provide all people, irrespective of where they live or how much they earn, with a decent and proper health scheme which carries with it dignity and care. Those are the areas in which I feel this Government should take great care. 
It is obvious from all that has been said in the debate both here and in another place that the Bill in some ways is very confusing and in some ways is not dealing with what it set out to deal with. The position will not get better; it will get worse. I think that the Bill, redrafted to cover the very real areas of need that have been pointed up by speakers from both sides of the Senate, would be of great advantage to the people of Australia. There is time to do that. It is not as though this is a matter that has to be dealt with urgently in the next 2 days. The scheme will continue as it is now. For the sake of 25c a prescription, I really feel that, even in the current economic climate, the Government could manage to stagger along covering that cost, if it exists, and could introduce a Bill which dealt with the real problems that have been raised. 
The problem in some ways is that we do not seem to be dealing with an area that has some urgency attached to it. We do not seem to be dealing with an area in which we care about the recipients of the benefits. All we seem to be doing is using this scheme to raise money. Again we get back to the old profit motive. It is a case of never mind about the people who need the scheme urgently; never mind about the people who literally cannot afford to be sick and literally have a great burden thrust upon them. I met a young man the other evening. He is in his thirties and he works 130 hours a week in order to pay off costs incurred because a child was born retarded. The child cost that young man and his wife $28,000 in its first year. This sort of thing happens to people and people cannot guard against it. Not even the private health funds would guard people in situations like that. In this area there are people who cannot help the position in which they find themselves; there are people who have a child or a family of children with chronic complaints; and there are grown-ups who have chronic complaints and who, through no fault of their own, do not have the income to deal with the costs involved. This is not the son of area which governments should use to reduce deficits. It is the area in which governments should look at what people need and should look after them. 
-In rising in this Address-in-Reply debate I am very conscious that this is the second time in less than 2 years that I have risen in such a debate. I must say that I preferred the position from which I made my speech last time. It was on the other side of the Senate. In congratulating the new honourable senators I issue a gentle warning to them. Nothing in politics and in this place is sure any more. They may think that they are here for 3 years. But so did we when we occupied those benches across the way. Once upon a time in this country governments were sure of the term they would serve. Governments were elected and Parliaments served a term of 3 years. A government fell only when it lost the numbers. A prime minister was removed from office only when he did not have the numbers, or when he did not have Supply or, usually, when he had neither. But that was a long time ago. Evidently it was another system. It is not a system under which we operate in Australia any longer. 
Somebody said to me during the election campaign in December: 'How will you know who has won the elections? You used to know because the Party which had the numbers in the House of Representatives formed the Government. But in this instance the Party of which the Prime Minister was a member in the House of Representatives had the numbers and had Supply, yet the Government was removed.' I think new honourable senators should ponder those questions long and well and they should ponder the length of their stay in this place. Those of us who have watched this Government and who remember the 23 years during which it sat on all the initiatives and new ideas which came up in Australia look with some trepidation to the future. We looked at that future when we were out on the election trail. We knew better than most what would happen. We tried to tell people what would happen. It is a great temptation now to say: 'I told you so'. Of course, 43 per cent of the population believed us and are fighting back. They are saying: 'Well, you lost the battle but you have not lost the war. ' But defeat in these circumstances can be more exasperating than usual, taking into account the things which led up to 11 November and 13 December and then looking at the electoral figures from the last election. 
In Victoria, in the House of Representatives election, the Australian Labor Party got 42 per cent of the vote and it holds 10 seats. The Liberal Party got 42.3 per cent of the vote and it holds 1 9 seats. The National Country Party of Australia got 8.8 per cent of the vote and it holds 5 seats. So much for democracy and so much for the redistribution Bill which was not passed because the then Opposition in the Senate would not pass it. 
Of course, we know why they would not pass it. We knew at the time why they would not pass it. But it was a great lesson in democracy to have that Bill refused. We have one Party with 42 per cent of the vote holding 10 seats while a party with 0.3 per cent more of the vote holds 9 more seats. Then, the National Country Party with 8.8 per cent of the vote holds 5 seats. No wonder it wanted all the sheep and cows counted, too. I suppose this Government should not have surprised us. We should not have been surprised that it won office by subterfuge, by shabby tactics, by confusion, by whispering campaigns and by manipulating people. 
We should not have been surprised, but we were. There should have been enough evidence in the Bills which were knocked back and in the amendments which were moved for us to know. We should have told the people of Australia more strongly and more often that if they valued democracy and a way of life they should look very closely at whatever moves the people who now form the Government take. 
The people in Australia are good people. They believe, as they believed in 1972 and 1974, that Australia can be a good country and that profit is not the only standard by which people should live. They were confused. They were worried by smear campaigns and by stories that are still circulating. It is like asking: 'Have you stopped beating your wife?' It is very hard to combat that situation. It is very hard for ordinary people to take in. But the sad reality of it all is hitting home now. Cuts are being made in areas of expenditure that have made the quality of life in Australia better. I shall refer to the cuts that are being made in just some of the schemes that are dear to my heart because they have done something for that depressed area of Australia's population- the women of Australia. 
A scheme was introduced by the Labor Government known as the NEAT scheme- the National Employment and Training Scheme. It is a scheme that was designed to provide training for varying types of people- not only women. There was another scheme that was designed to deal just with getting women back into the workforce. We realised that with changes in technology and with areas of manufacture going out of business there were men who had to be retrained in order to earn their living and that there were people coming out of school with certain skills and who could not get jobs although there were jobs in the community waiting to be done. We realised that they would have to be retrained before they could take them. So we brought in the NEAT scheme, which was a scheme under which people went back to school and trained in another area. 
It gave some hope not only to women who had been out of the workforce and who wanted to go back and be retrained but also to women who knew that they were going to have the responsibility of raising their families. Some of them were women who were on their own and who were going to have the responsibility of raising their family and some of them were women who knew that, because of the type of man to whom they were married, they would always have to accept part of the responsibility of looking after their families. To so many of these women for so long the earning of some money was better than earning no money at all. So they took any job. No matter what were their capabilities or what skills were lying dormant in them they had to do any sort of job they could get. They had to work in shops, scrub floors, do ironing and do other people's housekeeping. 
But all of that is very tentative and they knew that it was not really going to provide the sort of life that they wanted for their families. The NEAT scheme was a scheme that gave them the chance to go back and use the inherent skills they had to be trained in some sort of profession and take their place in the world in the knowledge that no matter what happened to their husbands they would be able to cope. The ones who were on their own knew that no matter what turned up they would be much better equipped to cope than they had been before. There were even single women who were keeping their children and who wanted to go on keeping their children without having to do what perhaps their mothers had done and go out and shop for a husband. They wanted to equip themselves to be able to look after their children no matter whether they spent the rest of their lives  on their  own. Now the NEAT scheme has been cut. So many of these women cannot possibly go on in that area existing on some $24 a week. So what do they do? They go back to the old world of taking any money or any job or of stretching out whatever educational scheme they are in and, instead of getting on with the job and doing it in 2 years or 3 years, they stretch it out to 5 years by paddling along doing part time jobs and doing courses part time or they give up their studies altogether. 
Remarks were made during the course of the last few weeks about the fact that we paid supporting mothers and single mothers a pension. It was said in some areas that a Federal pension could make many young women permanently dependent on welfare. At the same time a statement was made along the lines that more emphasis must be placed upon training single mothers to re-enter the workforce. That is indicative of the patchwork thinking- the bits here and there- of the sort of government that we had for 23 years. It did not take anything through to its final conclusion. It patched it up; it put a bandaid over it. The Government cannot have it both ways. It cannot emphasise the need to train single mothers and get them back into the workforce and at the same time expect them to live on nothing, without any assistance from anybody, while they do it. 
The poor old Children 's Commission has been bashed from one end of this country to another and from one side of this House to another. It was set up to deal with the problems of children. Children whose mothers work have problems, children whose mothers are engaged in outside activities have problems and children who have no mother but who have a father looking after them have problems. Somebody has to take note of them and somebody has to do something about them. At the moment we are in a state of limbo. Many schemes have been approved. We know that some of them did not get down to the basis of full time child care. We know that many of them have been caught up in the establishment of kindergartens. I, as a woman, say that a lot of that has to deal with the fact that there are so many men in positions where money is paid out to kindergartens. There are so many men in government, including local government, who truly and honestly believe- they are not bad men- that in establishing kindergartens one is providing child care, whereas we know that that is a tiny part of educating a child in some ways and that it does not get down to the root of child care, of after school and before school care when mothers and fathers have to go to work, of care for children whose mothers and fathers have taken ill, have gone away or have had accidents. 
What happens to those children at the moment? Neighbours look after them. It is all very well the health departments in the various States telling us that unless one provides a toilet that is 2 feet high and there are windows that are 4 feet off the ground one cannot open a child care facility but the point is that for years people around the corner and down the street have minded children and for years those children have managed to deal with toilets that are a little higher than those at home and they do not seem to have come off the worse for it. What we have to get down to in that area is looking at the people who need the care- that is the children. The Government can be very pious about where the children are minded, why is it encouraging their mothers back into the workforce? The whole manufacturing and industrial section of this country would come to a standstill if those women stayed at home. So the children are allowed to be minded in all sorts of conditions over which nobody has any control at the moment. 
To demonstrate how many women are engaged in the workforce at the moment I would like to quote from a document entitled  Girls, School and Society,  which was a report to the Schools Commission, in which it is said: 
A quarter of a million women with dependent children aged 12 or under were in the labour force in 1 973 - 
We know the figures have gone up since then-  and about 12S 000 women with dependent children under 6 were in the labour force. Of these last 2 groups half were working full time. 
The Government is standing around waiting for things to happen. It says that it must consider priorities. It says that we have to consider the economic growth of the country. Those. children are the economic growth of the country. They are the future of this country. What is the point of a wealthy country sitting back in luxury while its children are deserted, while its children are ignored, while its children are not cared for and while its future is not cared for. 
One area that brought a new light to the field of education was the introduction of innovations grants. Too many people in this country think that life will finish in December 1976, whereas the world will go on to 1986, 2006 and even further. We cannot stay in systems that were designed, in many cases, for 1936. So many new ideas have been brought forward in the field of education. There are new ways of teaching people. Television has come into the world. In many instances people have stopped reading newspapers and rely on television to inform them on current affairs. Sometimes we deplore it but it is not the fault of the television system; it is the fault of what we put on it. Men can now walk on the moon. Education has to take in those things. It seemed to me that the innovations grants gave a chance for new ideas, fresh thinking, in areas that are crying out for a new look without the need to go into an enormous expenditure, without the need to go into complex plans, without the need to set up a commission, without someone sitting down and planning for 4 years and then abandoning his plans. They gave people working in the area a chance to try out new ideas. It gave a chance for parents who had an idea about how to cope with a problem to try out that idea. It gave a chance for teachers to implement a new way of getting through to children who were in difficult circumstances. It gave a chance to bring into being plans to keep children as school, perhaps after normal school hours, rather than have them watching television or running around in the streets. It gave people a chance to teach them practical skills that they did not have a chance to learn in their ordinary school curriculum. 
I know that the scheme was intensely disliked by the State departments of education. I can imagine State departments disliking intensely anything coming in that could upset their nice quiet routine. But I am very sad that that is the area that this Government found it necessary to cut in education. I believe this takes us all back to where we were before. Nobody thought that there was a new light coming. I have to admit that this Government got all its priorities right in its first month. It did the important things. We finished up with 4 national anthems, 2 sets of honours, a butler at the Lodge, costly revamping of a very expensive VIP aircraft and a new runway and the reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty. But what did the Government chop in the first week? Wage indexation, to which the Government was committed, went by the board. We saw miserable things like the elimination of funeral benefits for pensioners. Do honourable senators really forget how their mothers and fathers felt about being buried decently? Do they forget about the terrible fear in people throughout the community, especially in people who have always been short of money, that they might finish up without a decent burial? That little bit of money provided by way of funeral benefits gave them just that much hope. The same cuts were applied in relation to deaf aids. With the infinitesimal amount of money involved, why make cuts in that area? There may even have been a case for saying that that was one of the provisions that the Government should have made available for everybody and not just for those who could afford such aids. We have seen what has happened in relation to pharmaceutical benefits about which we have talked today. Legal aid, which was to bring to people some hope of equality under the law, has also been cut. So often people have been told: 'If you have any sort of case, if you really think that you have not been truly dealt with, take the matter to court'. Over and over again honourable senators have heard that said to people or they have said it to people themselves. To obtain redress under the law and to go to court is just a great giggle for so many people. How in the world can they ever afford the costs of going to court? It sounds so simple but it is so difficult. 
Of course, legal aid schemes have operated in the States, including my State of Victoria. There was the sort of legal aid scheme under which $4,000 or some such similar amount could be spent within a year on legal aid. When that was spent, no more funds were available. Some legal aid scheme that was. The Labor Government introduced a scheme that would have given people a chance to go to somebody to find out the truth, to ask, 'Can they do that to me; what are my rights under the law?' It is easy to say that the law exists in books. But it is difficult for lawyers to read it, let alone for lay men to read it. But we know that the Australian Legal Aid Service has been told that this Government does not see it has any part to play in the legal aid services of this country. 
I turn to the situation in regard to Aborigines. I have sat with my friend Neville Bonner in Aboriginal camps and I have cried with him over the conditions that Aborigines live in in his State of Queensland. I wish that he would talk more loudly and more often about how Aborigines are treated in his State. How well will Aborigines fair under this Government? Araluen is just one little place. But are we going to keep the Aboriginal colleges which gave Aboriginal kids a chance to move out into the world and to do something? Are we to leave the Aborigines living in tin humpies without water, sanitation or anything else as honourable senators opposite left them for 23 years? Will they take up their cause now and do something for them? Will the Government give back the lands they want and which we took, the lands which we get sentimental about but which they have a right to get sentimental about because it has been theirs for centuries? For 23 years honourable senators opposite ignored the Aborigines. They left them living in the most repulsive conditions. The Labor Government tried to do a little. It did only a little. Already, the grant for Aborigines has been slashed. What is the hope for the future? What is to come? 
We have seen cuts in little things like bus services in Canberra. The Government is dealing with a national debt and thinks that the problem can be solved by cutting bus services after 10 p.m. in Canberra and by not running buses on Saturdays and Sundays. I wonder which part of the community that affects. It does not affect the tall poppies. It will not affect us. It will affect all the little people in Canberra. 
It will not affect the Ministers, either. We see even miserable cuts such as removing the common room for the drivers up at the Lodge. What is to come? Government supporters keep on talking about tax indexation. But they talked also about wage indexation, which they seek to abolish. So what hope do we have to see tax indexation introduced. 
I am waiting with interest to see what the Government does about equal pay for women. That was one of the first things about which my Government did something when it was first elected in 1972. It introduced equal pay for women. Sure, it is not the be all and end all because under equal pay some people are more equal than others. Women become machinists and men become technicians. We know that. But it was a start. Some allegations were made during the last Federal election campaign, and never denied, that confidential talks had taken place with employers who employed large numbers of women and that certain things had been said about terminating equal pay. It was said that undertakings had been given in secret that equal pay would be terminated in the Arbitration Court and if that did not work legislation would be passed to give effect to this. Of course, it was felt by honourable senators opposite that they would have the numbers in both Houses of Parliament to do this. I say to them: You just try to knock back equal pay and take us back to the days when women received 60 per cent of the male wage. Some women were lucky to receive 40 per cent of the male wage. There is no way this will happen. The textile industry has adapted and revamped itself to accept this. Women in the textile industry will not go back to receiving 60 per cent of the male rate and neither will the rest of the women in Australia even countenance the idea. We did not come out from the shade for fun. We came out to work and we expect to get paid for that work. 
All of these things, summed up, make me feel that we now have a Government which thought for 3 years that the ordinary people of this country got too large a cut of the cake, that if profits were to fall and the ordinary people were to have their expectations expanded, it was no good. I wonder why? I quote from an article that appeared in the  National Times  for the week 24-29 November 1975. It states: 
Early in November, when Australians were still speculating about an early election, an attorney for the American corporation, Westinghouse, was uncannily accurate in his forecast of the turn of events. 
In an interview with Nucleonics Week, a McGraw Hill publication, William Jentes discussed the problems Westinghouse was having in meeting its uranium contracts. 
The shortage is near term,' he told the weekly. 'We don't have enough to meet our commitments . . . Maybe if the Labor Government is thrown out in Australia in five weeks so that we can get uranium we thought we had, we may be able to supply it . . . 
That was said 5 weeks and 3 days before 13 December, the election date, and 5 days before 
Kerr, acted. How was that American in the know when we poor fools here in Australia went on blithely sitting on the largest lump of energy the world has ever known, thinking that we could go on sitting there building a free lovely world in which all people would have a chance without people trying to take it away from us? I would like to refer to another statement which is a little closer to home. The former Liberal member of Parliament,  Mr St  John, said in his submission to the Australian Ownership Council: 
It is true to say that by the adroit use of their money and power and their connections in high places; ... by their lavish hospitality; by favours shown in the right places; by playing off one State Premier, anxious for 'development', against another; by what has been called the 'subversion of the elites' (the managerial and professional classes, the bankers and financiers) by sharing out some of the 'goodies', (the directorates, the local consultancies and minority shareholdings); by contributions to party funds; and (let's face it) by thinking big and applying their undoubted managerial, technical and marketing skills- by these and many other means the  MNCs  -  the multinational companies-  can and do attain not only economic dominance, but very great political influence as well. This has undoubtedly happened in Australia. 
We know that it happened in Australia. That statement very aptly sums up the bloodless coup we went through on 11 November 1975. Why? Because ordinary people in Australia at last were getting close to living decent lives, with decent wages, with an education system that was starting to educate them and not turn them out as factory fodder, and with a health scheme which meant that people did not lie awake at 2 o'clock in the morning wondering how on earth they were going to pay the medical bills and wondering whether it might not be better if people who were ill died. We were getting back to decent civilised living, playing our part and taking our part of the goods that belong to us because they are Australian. The repercussions of the coup on 1 1 November will be felt for a long time. As I said before, the battle may be over but the war goes on. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Carrick)  adjourned. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the Prime Minister has issued a directive restricting the employment of females on ministerial staffs to steno-secretaries and positions of a similar level? If so, does that demonstrate a lack of trust in the .Ministers or in the females? 
I preface my question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, by referring to the address given by  Senator Guilfoyle  to the Australian Confederation of Apparel Manufacturers. She spoke of the need to widen the employment opportunities of migrant women by developing their natural skills by, amongst other things, assisting them with language problems.  Senator Guilfoyle  said- I agree with this-that it is futile to expect women who are working in factories all day and at home all night to go out to night school. Therefore I ask: What steps is the Government taking to facilitate the teaching of English in the work place? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Will the Minister inform the Senate how many applications to participate in the innovation grants scheme nave been received by the Department of Education since applications were first invited in October 1975. 
What proportion of those applications does the Minister expect to be funded, and what grants would be required to fund those applications outstanding. 
My question is addressed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Child Care Matters. Arising from the Minister's statement on expenditure on children's services, could she advise how many new pre-school centres have been funded this financial year? How many pre-school centres are having 75 per cent of staff salaries funded because they have agreed to expand their services? What guidelines for such expansion of services have been set with which pre-school centres must comply before such funding is made available? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I have been informed by servicewomen that the principles of equal pay have not yet been extended to their areas of employment. Can the Minister advise whether this is so? If these principles have not been extended, can steps be taken to have that done immediately? If the Minister believes that this has been done, can the Senate have a report on the extent of the implementation of equal pay in this area? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. In November of last year, under the previous Government, steps were taken to set up legal aid offices at some 32 additional sites. To date there appears to have been no further work done on this matter. Can the Senate be advised whether there is likely to be any cut in the number of offices to be opened and if so, which offices will be cut? Can the public be assured that all other offices will be opened with all speed? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974,I present the Thirty-ninth general report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. 
Is the Minister for Social Security aware of the confusion in the community over the amount pensioners must pay for pharmaceutical benefits? Prior to the recent increase in the amount paid by individual payers, pensioners paid only 75c for a prescription, a 50 per cent cut in the cost. Is anyone now eligible to pay less than the $2 for each prescription which is the amount laid down in recent legislation? 
Does the Minister for Social Security accept that in the community there are many women who are bringing up children on their own and who, at the moment, arc struggling to make ends meet on the supporting mother's benefit? Does she accept that many of these women have no current qualifications which would lead to constant employment at a wage which would enable them to bring up their children in a life-style similar to that of the majority of the rest of the community? Does the Minister accept that there are many women who are not receiving supporting mother's benefit but whose domestic circumstances are such that they also need qualifications to enable them to earn a living that will cover the responsibilities, which they have taken on, of raising a family? Does she agree that, for the greater good of the community and for the good of the persons involved, it is better for people to be independent than to be receiving frugal handouts from governments? If the Minister agrees with all or part of these propositions will she endeavour to have her Government design a scheme of training which is not tied to the normal pros and cons of assets owned, pensions received or domestic arrangements, but is based on personal circumstances, so that the community at large may benefit from the greater harmony in so many homes in the community, from the greater dignity of the individual and from the expertise which would then be made available to the community? 
I move: 
That the Senate ask the Government to make such funds available as will enable projects commenced during International Women's Year 1975 to continue and be expanded, and take urgent and immediate steps to eliminate all forms of discrimination against women in Australia, and to actively encourage the elimination of discrimination against women in all parts of the world. 
I rise on this matter because I feel that, as International Women's Year finished about two or three weeks ago, the matter should not be dropped but should be kept before the Government and the people of Australia. Because when International Women's Year was first mooted the government of the day had long recognised that discrimination against women was incompatible with human dignity and with the wellbeing of society, it saw International Women's Year as a chance to highlight areas to which the community had turned a blind eye for so long. That Government recognised, and I think that the whole community should recognise with some sober thought, the fact that the year had to be granted. In the year 1974 it was thought necessary to give the world 12 months in which to recognise that there had been discrimination against women, that there was discrimination against women and that unless steps were taken to bring women out of themselves and to realise their full potential, the world was missing out on the potential of over 50 per cent of the population. So it was thought necessary to nominate a year to ensure that the basic human rights of women were recognised. 
International Women's Year was seen as a year to provide opportunity to stand back and assess what had been achieved and what needed to be done. In many ways what needed to be done far outweighed what had been achieved. Various things such as equal minimum wage, maternity leave in the Public Service and equality of promotion in the Public Service which could be done by putting pen to paper had been done. But the feeling in the community in many ways had not been changed. In many areas nobody had thought it necessary to do anything for women in a particular fashion. Some of the projects that were taken up during International Women's Year, of which I think we should not lose sight, have only just begun and should be extended. So I am asking the Government to look at them very keenly and to provide the necessary funding. I refer for instance to the continued establishment of a network of community centres to respond to women's problems and to encourage their activities. People talk a lot about suburban neurosis, about the problems of the nuclear family, about the problems of women from other countries who do not speak English and who are isolated in outlying areas of our major cities. Up until this point nobody thought that by providing the sheer physical environment, a place where women could meet, talk and discuss their problems, we might be going a long way towards curing some of those very real, very nasty and very modern complaints that do so much to tear the fabric of our modern society apart. 
Thank you,  Senator Cormack,  but I do know that our civilisation covers more than the outer suburban areas. As I was about to say, women in country areas sometimes have an even harder row to hoe because at least in some areas of our cities people can occasionally board a tram- when the tram runsand go to communicate with their fellows, with people who speak the same language or with their families, although that is becoming increasingly difficult in the cities which we have created. People in the country have an even harder row to hoe. Women isolated in the country where they have not even a telephone cannot communicate with their fellows. In that regard the present Government might consider making the telephone a public utility and not just a luxury that some people can afford. Even a telephone is better than not having human beings to talk to face to face. 
Other areas in which women needed the establishment of some sort of community centre were the areas of health, shelter, refuge, counselling and rape. Some very hard things have been said about the sort of women who have taken advantage of these centres and the sort of women who have set up these centres. But I suppose that it is a bit hard for men to understand that there are times when women want to talk to people who understand exactly what their health problem is- and that is not a man. Sometimes it is of great comfort for a woman to talk to another woman about what is happening to her body, because that woman does understand as it has been happening to her body. She can talk to somebody who understands what she is saying and does not have to go into a great deal of gynaecological detail. She knows that she will receive sympathy from the person to whom she is talking because that person has suffered from the same sort of disability. With the best will in the world, no man can understand how a woman feels in some circumstances because he is not a woman. He is a man. For very little outlay and upkeep such centres can be established where women can go and find out that they are not freaks, that the things that happen to them happen to other women and that somebody ought to be taking some notice of the things that happen to them. 
By the same token, women who because of their domestic difficulties, because of overworkthere will be more of them- have broken down and have found that they cannot stand the pressure of working, keeping a family and looking after a house, need some place where they can go after the first violent reaction so that they can find their way back into the community, talk to their fellows or their peers, talk about ways to manage their lives and ways to manage the seemingly endless problems that come up. When that breakdown comes, when violence occurs in the home that seems to be happening with increasing frequency these days- there needs to be a place of quiet where people can go, talk to other people, talk out the problem and be assured that things can be better, that something can be done, that they are not mad but that it is just the pressure of modern society that has pushed them out of kilter for the moment. Once upon a time that place was the church. Increasingly- I do not want to go into this argument- it is not the church anymore. Once upon a time it was the family doctor. Now a person is lucky if he sees the same doctor more than twice running at the same clinic. So there has to be another place. These days there is not the large family unit where there were grandmothers, mothers and aunts to whom a woman could talk. Sometimes there is just a 3-year old, whom she loves very much but who does not talk her language. There needs to be a place where people can go. I am not saying that there does not need to be a place where men can go in such circumstances. But in this instance I am very much aware of the fact that there needs to be a place where women can go to seek shelter and refuge and some advice. It is becoming an increasingly more serious problem in the community because so many people are getting to a crisis situation these days. It is an area at which our society has to take a greater look. 
So many of the crises, burdens and problems that arise could be side-stepped if there were more facilities available for people to get together to discuss, to increase the skills they have and to practise the skills they have achieved in being housewives and mothers. They have considerable skills in being housewives and mothers. Too often these days I meet women who, when I ask them what they do, hang their heads and say, 'We are only housewives'. It is one of the saddest sights to see. They are not only housewives. They are also people who have contributed tremendously to our society and to our civilisation. They are the people who have kept our civilisation and our society going. Without their expertise, their care and their love I doubt whether society would have lasted as long as it has. It is good for them to realise, it is good for their inner beings to know, it is good for their confidence to know that they have the skills, that they can share those skills with other people, that they can teach other people those skills and go on contributing in that way. This was one of the areas that International Women's Year wanted to cover and I think started to cover. 
Another of the areas that we wanted to look into was the effect of the education system on women's self-image. So many women had no confidence in themselves. That was partly due to the education system they had gone through which had seen them as only filling in their time at school. It had seen women as filling in their time between leaving school and having a baby. It did not give a damn what happened to them after that period of producing a family had passed. In some cases, they were left with 30 and 40 years of their lives in which they could give of their expertise to the community. The isolation of women, on which I have touched, is a very real problem. It is a very real problem in an understandable way for migrant women who come to Australia and who do not understand our language. Their husbands are away all day, and sometimes all night too, because they have 2 jobs to fill. Their children learn another language that is not their mothers' language. There are no programs on the television in their languages. There are no programs broadcast by the radio stations in their languages. They are lucky in some instances if they can read a newspaper because of the circumstances in which some of" them came to Australia, even if they could buy a newspaper in their own languages. That is a terrifying isolation in which to leave anybody. 
It is terrifying for women more so because while their husbands go out to work and of necessity must have some contact and learn something of the community they live in, those women can be locked up inside 4 walls day in day out. It is not human to leave them there in that condition. Until the International Women's Year conference raised that problem it was not even considered to be a problem. I am ashamed to say that not a great deal has been done about it up to this point. For those women it is a diabolical problem. But it can be a problem also for women living in outer suburbs and who spend their days in conversation with 3-year-olds. The husbands in those areas do not get home from work until 7 or 8 o'clock at night. By that time their wives are worn out. The terrifying isolation of looking at 4 walls and talking to yourself 5 days a week is not good. It does not do good things to good human beings. 
International Women's Year wanted to cover the participation of women in the area of films, television and radio programs. It wanted to get their expertise and their ideas into those areas. We found that in those areas women were very good clerks, filing clerks, telephone answerers or letter-typers and they gave a great deal of advice. It has often been said that managing directors can die but as long as their secretaries are there the next managing directors will be able to carry on. That holds true just as much in the area of the media. Women are working hard in that area and have a great deal of expertise. But because they are women not very much notice is taken of them. One little program was broadcast by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It was the  Coming Out Ready or Not  show. It was written by women for women and was broadcast by women. I must say that it was a breath of fresh air in the great mass of material that pours out through the radio stations. I am amazed that commercial stations which profess to have such a great concern for women and which certainly, day after day, try to sell women goods worth hundreds of thousands of dollars cannot take up the challenge and do something along their own lines to provide a program for women which is produced by women. For once, they should listen to what women want and provide it. They should not do as so much of the media does, namely, provide the greatest load of tripe unhung because it is cheap and because it fills in the time between when the station goes on air and the time when the husbands come home at 7 o'clock at night. 
International Women's Year provided an opportunity to stand back and assess what had been achieved up to date in this area and what needed to be done. It was discovered that a great deal more needed to be done than has been done up to that time. When the national secretariat for International Women's Year advertised the fact that money could be devoted to various projects coming under the heading of International Women's Year, by 4 December 1974 the costed submissions it received amounted to $3.5m. At that stage only $2m had been allotted for this purpose and there was still 12 months to go. The submissions poured in on all sorts of subjects. Some of them sounded funny; some of them sounded like the sort of ideas that could go on for year after year. But they all came from areas concerned for women's rights, for women's lives, for women and their children and the sort of lives they had been living. The submissions poured in. It proved that although until that time other departments and institutions had had some responsibility in that area- they had had it for a long time- they had not done anything about communicating their ability to deal with those problems to women in the community. There had been no communication between those departments and institutions and women in the community. There was obviously a need for a great deal more, and more vital, vital communication. I do not mean just publishing on the notice board of a department the fact that they were able to do this, that and the other thing. I mean actively going out and finding the problems, letting the people with those problems know that they were in a position to assist and that the machinery was there to do something about the problems that existed. Such departments should be actively getting out into the community to participate in the problems. 
It was obvious that in many areas there needed to be centres set up, advice given and a little money spent. Nobody could say that $2m spent in 12 months for International Women's Year in a big country like Australia, a country as wealthy as Australia, is a lot of money. A little more money had to be spent. But at the end of 1 2 months, after so many years of neglect, wc should not just chop off the funds, have everybody turn back into pumpkins, go back to where we were and turn a blind eye to the problems that were uncovered. It was 12 months really spent in discovering what the problems were. Now we want to spend the next 50 or 100 years making sure that those problems are dealt with, that new problems do not arise, that all our citizens participate to the best of their ability and that there is not discrimination against part of our community. Unfortunately, we know that that discrimination still exists. We know now that it exists in areas of which we had not even thought. I am not saying that discrimination does not exist in other areas, but in this instance we will not find out how far discrimination against women goes unless we give women a chance to speak out, to talk about their needs, thoughts, worries, hopes and dreams. We cannot do that by imposing ideas on them or by telling them what they have to do. We can do it by opening up opportunities for them to speak out for themselves. That needs more time, and that is why I want this Government to extend some of the funding that went into International Women's Year. In 12 months we got articulate women to speak out. In 12 months there were women to whom the idea of speaking out filtered through. This is like the tip of an iceberg. There are some women speaking out, but there are thousands upon thousands of women who do not know that they are oppressed, who do not know that life could be better and who do not realise what society is doing to them. We have to give ourselves a chance to listen and give them a chance to talk to us. 
Discrimination against women exists in Australia in many different ways and some of the things that we have found out give us an idea of the direction in which we should go. For instance, in this House some time last year I asked whether there had been any research into the induction of labour, the practice of bringing on labour and having babies bom in office hours. It created some mirth. I am ashamed to say that it created some mirth on the part of our Minister. In the following few weeks I received letters from individual women, groups of women, scientists and doctors saying that no research had been done and that up to that point nobody had thought it terribly important that research like this be done. One got the distinct feeling that, because it was something that was happening to women who, after all, do have babies and always have had babies, and because everybody knows how it happens- although I am not sure that everybody knows how it is brought about- nothing had been done. 
Take the pill, for example. Many women around Australia have said for a long time that people do not really know what effect the pill has on some women, women in certain conditions. Because society now is in some ways dependent on the pill and because so many women are pressured into using the pill, one would think that science would investigate very promptly, as it concerns such a large proportion of the community, the effect that the pill has on women 's systems and the effect that it has on women mentally, and would take immediate steps to make sure that women were safeguarded against any excesses. 
I have a great deal of concern about the attitude of some midwives towards their patients. In some instances one would think that they were at a stud rather than in a hospital where human babies are being born and human mothers are going through suffering. I also think that society has ignored the fact that breast-feeding is going out of popularity. In International Women's Year there was a group which tried to get funding in order to spread the news about breast-feeding and about how well babies did and how much better they were for it. This is an area that scientists and governments should investigate and one into which science should do some research, because these are very basic things. 
We sat back very smugly in the last couple of years and said that equal pay had come in and therefore women were right in that area. We know very much to our sorrow that under equal pay some people are more equal than others and that this is still one area of great discrimination. Because we make institutional changes, that docs not necessarily mean that we change the attitude of society. Because we pass a Bill, that does not mean that the feeling behind that Bill filters down to the lowest level of society. We all know of cases where women are machinists and mcn are technicians. The division of labour is such that, because one sex gets one title and the other sex gets another title, the male sex is entitled to a higher rate of pay. That is discrimination at the lowest level and something has to be done about it. Governments have not done any more about it, unions have not done any more about it and employers have not done any more about it. 
This is a basic principle, because in enticing women into the work force in many ways we arc getting them out there as cheap labour. When some of them stagger out of bed at 6 o'clock in the morning, get children off to school, do the chores, go to work, come home, look after the family and then fall into bed, it is time unions, employers and governments looked at what amounts to not much more than slave labour for a great percentage of this community. We accept that cheap labour, that slave labour; but, when those women get put off their jobs, do they get unemployment benefit? Evidently they are not looked upon as a solid part of the community or work force. They are usable, and when we need them we get them out of the house and use them. When their jobs close up, out they go with no compensation of any sort. 
Another area of discrimination which appals me, and for which I feel my sex is as much to blame as the other sex, is in superannuation. I had not looked at it very closely before I became a senator. I suppose I had never come upon it. For the life of me, I cannot understand why a system should exist where husband and wife are supposedly a team, contribute equally to the wellbeing and finances of home and family and life and out of their joint income the husband pays superannuation and then if the husband dies the wife gets only a percentage of the superannuation entitlement for which they have paid for so long, whereas if the wife dies first the husband receives his full superannuation entitlement. A wife left with a house and children pays the same for rates, electricity, shoes, food, education and living as does the husband who is left. So why should she get only a percentage of what they both in a sense have contributed to the superannuation fund? 
I talked about enticing women back to the work force. To make it better, more pleasant and easier for women to go back, in government circles we brought in maternity leave. Perhaps we should think of a new name for it, because I find that in the community there are people who think that women who leave work to have babies get 12 months leave on full pay. We know very well that they get not 12 months leave on full pay but 2 months leave with no pay at all. The object is that their jobs, their promotional opportunities and their places in their department are kept for them. That entitlement has not filtered through to women in industry. They do not get any sort of maternity leave and there is no provision for them to go back to their jobs in industry. That should be done. 
We entice women back into industry; but what do we do about retraining them for a proper place in industry? Nothing. We bring them back because so many of them think that some money is better than no money at all and will take the most menial, dreary, dull and underpaid jobs there are. If they were retrained they could come back with a full capacity to contribute. Those who had some training before they left industry need some further training in order to catch up with what has gone on in the meantime. We have paid lip service to that need. In the National Employment and Training scheme we paid lip service to it. It is important that the women who feci that they want to come back into the work force should be able to do so under the best possible conditions, but it is even more important that the women who have to come back into the work force are able to do so under the best possible conditions. 
I ask the Government to look at this matter as a matter of great priority: There are women being trained under the NEAT scheme who have lived on the supporting mother's benefit for a long time or who, if they have not lived on the supporting mother's benefit, have done menial jobs in the community- scrubbed floors, taken in washing and kept house for other people- to provide the sort of income they need to enable them to keep their children as best they can under the same conditions as those enjoyed by the rest of the community. It is an up and down sort of life. They are in and out of employment. If they were given some training that enabled them to obtain qualifications they would then be able to hold down a job while looking after their families and to stand up in the community as equal citizens and not as ones relying on government handouts. By the same token there are women in the community who because of their domestic circumstances- they may have a husband who is an alcoholic and upon whom they can never depend to bring in a regular income but who brings in some income- should be given the chance to achieve those qualifications that will enable them to look after their families in a solid fashion without, as has been suggested to some of them by some government employees, having to leave their husbands and so entitle themselves to the supporting mother's benefit. If we are really talking about women coming into the work force and we are not doing more than paying lip service to retraining we ought to look at these things. I would like to quote from a booklet put out by the Women's Bureau of the Department of Labour entitled 'How to find the job you want'. One knows that it is directed to women because it has a rose on the cover. Amongst the advice it gives is the following: 
If you have young children, be able to satisfy the employer that they will not unduly take your attention from your job or make you an unreliable worker; the employer may wish to be assured that you have made adequate arrangements for the care of your children while you are working. 
What employer would dare ask a man what arrangements he had made for his children or whether he was being a proper parent before he gave him a job? I once met a young woman with 5 young children whose husband was dying of a debilitating disease. She realised that if she was going to look after those children by herself for the rest of their lives and give them all the care that she and her husband would have otherwise given them she would have to gain some qualifications that would enable her to take up some work that would allow her to do so. She went along and was interviewed about retraining. The gentleman interviewing her said to her: I realise that you need to have qualifications, but you are young and have 5 children now. Do you think that you will have more children?' She said that she did not think that she would. She said that because of her husband's condition she did not think that there was any likelihood of that in any case. The interviewer persisted and asked her how she knew that there was no likelihood that she would have more children. Finally she said: 'I have had an hysterectomy; so I cannot have any more children'. The wretched man had the cheek to ask her the name of the gynaecologist so that he could check on whether that was true. Only men would do that to women. Men would not do it to other men. I think it is time that we took this matter very much to heart. 
The conditions under which women in the workforce are employed smack of discrimination to the nth degree. The Metropolitan Board of Works in Melbourne has some rather delightful guidelines for the employment of women. For instance, married female employees have only temporary status and there is no way in which those females who are married can ever become permanent. A female employee who marries is required to resign and apply for reappointment to a temporary position even though she does not need to stop work. How cynical is that? A female employee who marries and has to rejoin the Board as a new employee is not eligible for annual leave until the completion of a further 12 months service, despite the fact that there has been no break in the continuity of her work. Married women, as temporary employees, cannot be members of the Board's superannuation fund. Married women, as temporary employees, are not eligible for paid study leave. So that puts paid to any thought that the Board really accepts women as a real part of the workforce, as real citizens. They are just there to fill in time and to do odd jobs. Something has to be done about it because they are human beings and they have a lot to contribute. 
Women are at some disadvantage in the area of legal aid. This applies especially to women who are at home and who have no income. We went to the extent of establishing legal aid offices because we believed that nobody should be at a disadvantage before the law and that everybody, even women, should be equal. But somebody has to look at the area of the women in the home who have no income and who therefore go along to a legal aid office to get some advice on, say, divorce because of the conduct of their husbands. Their husbands are not going to give them money to go and obtain that advice. If they are in the position of being a part owner of the home, of having a joint bank account with their husbands, it seems that the door is closed to them everywhere in relation to obtaining any sort of legal advice. 
In this context I have to raise today the subject of rape. In some quarters rape has become a bit of a giggle, but I am sure that it has never been a giggle to the people who have been the victims of it. Males should stop laughing about the subject of rape. They should stop making jokes about it in bars. They should see it for what it is- the invasion of another person's privacy, the dragging away of that person's dignity, and the treating of that person as an animal and not as a human being. The final indignity is that in court that person has to prove her own innocence in the matter. A lot has been said in recent weeks about this matter and there have been articles in the newspapers about it, but is it not time that wc did something about it rather than just talk about it as being something that happens to other people? I cannot help feeling that if more mcn suffered from rape something would be done about it more quickly. 
I feel that the present governments and future governments will have to look at how taxation affects women. There is some talk now about various forms of taxation, including death duty and probate, being looked at. At least in this area people pay lip service to the fact that a woman who does not go out to work may still contribute much to the family home, the family property and even the family business and are seeing that she is a partner in or a part of that circumstance. But I think that Treasurers will have to have a look at the tax that working wives pay. As long as husbands and wives are taxed differently, even though in most instances the working wives work twice as hard, there will be many women around who feel that they are being discriminated against. I think that it is the duty of governments to take up those sorts of matters and to come up with some proposals for the relief of what in some ways I think is indiscriminate taxation when it comes to women. 
An area of discrimination that governments can do something about is the media. I know that it raises a bit of a giggle among my male colleagues and even my male constituents, but the fact of the matter is that women are depicted on radio and television and in the newspapers as happy little twirps who have no mind of their own and as some sort of a vegetable that has a continual smile on its face, that is never allowed to lose its temper, that is never allowed to be a human being and that is never allowed to have hates and loves of its own. As long as it washes, irons, cleans and does what it is told and pops into bed when it has to then it is well and truly under control. If we are talking about discrimination then let us talk about that sort of discrimination. 
Newpapers should treat women as adult human beings. I do not suppose we can legislate to ensure that newspapers present us with the sort of material to read that would broaden our outlook, broaden our minds or give us more information, but at least governments could legislate for women to be treated as whole human beings and not as some sort of cardboard cutout that is propped up either to sell soap powder, trucks, carpets or any other thing that happens to be going at the moment. This puts women under undue pressure to conform to an image that the media cuts out for them. This is not fair to people who are locked up day after day with the radio, television and newspapers. We know the influence that they have on people. If women do not see themselves depicted in that area as real human beings then I feel they are never going to take themselves seriously as human beings. 
In the motion which is before us we ask that this Government take steps to ensure that discrimination against women in all parts of the world is brought to an end as quickly as possible. I am very humble about telling other countries what they should do about discrimination when I feel that my own country could do so much more about setting an example. Perhaps the best we can do as far as overseas countries are concerned is to set an example by setting our own house in order first. Surely we could advise our representative on the United Nations to watch out and to encourage movements in other countries towards cutting down discrimination against women. Surely assistance could be offered and sought on a government to government basis in this matter. 
I am reminded of an old Chinese proverb which I have quoted before but which appeals to me in discussing this matter. The Chinese say that women hold up half of heaven. If that is so it seems to me that women are entitled to recognition in their own countries as full, well meaning, well disposed intelligent human beings who can contribute so much to the good of their country. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Drake-Brockman)-  Is the motion seconded? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. He will be aware of plans that the Liberal Party has to distribute, in its own words, a 'campaign manual and kit' to school children throughout Australia? Does he agree that such action could lead to school children becoming the unwilling recipients of a vast proliferation of propaganda material, that school children should not be so badgered, and that such action could seriously impair their reaching an objective assessment of the various political groupings in Australia? Have the various education authorities been consulted? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. By way of introduction may I point out that the Ministers in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries with portfolios corresponding to that of our Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations met in Geneva in February and March this year to discuss the high rate of unemployment in their respective countries. They recommended strengthening the unemployment benefit, the creation of programs of public works to provide more employment and that income maintenance programs be instituted. Does the Minister agree that these proposals are the direct opposite to actions taken by his Government? Does this give him some cause for concern? 
My question which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health follows from that asked by  Senator Tehan  regarding a revelation in a Melbourne newspaper on Saturday last that at least 1000 schoolgirls between the ages of 12 years and 17 years are aborted in Victoria in any one year and that the likely total number of abortions in Victoria in any one year is in the vicinity of 20 000. Taking that into account, will the Minister urge her Government to reconsider its decision to refuse to fund the centre that is ready to open in the heart of Melbourne to give young people contraceptive advice and sex counselling? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it true that decisions made by social security appeal tribunals are merely of a recommendatory nature and are passed on to the Director-General of Social Security as recommendations only; that the Director-General alone has the final say on all appeals for the whole of Australia, and that he is refusing a large percentage of the appeals that have been made? 
I rise to support the amendment moved by the Opposition to the Social Services Amendment Bill. I do so a little amazed that the Government does not take its propaganda seriously but knowing that, whilst I say that, I should not really be amazed by it at all. On the one hand we have the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  telling people that they must spend. He wants more spending and less saving. I cannot see why he cannot apply the same logic to pensioners. Whilst the Government is talking about increasing pensions, we know very well that it is not increasing pensions; it is compensating pensioners for the increase in the consumer price index for the 6 months ending December 1975. It is now almost May 1976. If this Government really meant what it said, it would be giving a greater increase to pensioners to cover the rise in the cost of living up to this date so that more money would be flowing into the community. The Government wants money spent. It wants goods sold. It wants goods moved off the warehouse floor so that more goods can be produced and so that more jobs will be made available. So why does it not give pensioners a pension that is at least equal to the amount they should receive taking into account the increase in the cost of living that has occurred since the last increase was granted? 
As the position stands, by keeping pension rates back and by denying to pensioners the rise they should have received, the Government is inspiring in people a seige mentality. In point of fact, the Government is pushing people to the point at which they will not spend. They are almost reaching the stage of storing tinned food against the disaster they believe will descend upon them. The Government is showing that it has this fear about the matter by holding back real rises in pensions. If the Government really believes that there is a good future and if it wants to encourage the community, it should show its faith in that future by bringing pension rates up to a level that is equivalent to present day standards. In December 1975, the then caretaker Minister for Social Security,  Mr Chipp,  said that he deplored rumours that the Liberal-National Country Party Government would be cutting pensions. What else can one call a postponement of increases that were promised to pensioners? What else can be said when the Government does not bring those pensions up to their rightful level? 
Much has been said in this debate about bringing children's benefits up to an appropriate rate. What has the Government done about civilian widows without children? For instance, they are limited to having an amount of $419 in the bank, above which their pension is decreased. That amount has not been increased since 1954. If they ever have more than that amount in the bank, the pension they receive is reduced. How can anybody with only $4 1 9 paint the house, buy a new refrigerator or have the hot water service repaired? How can such people save for their funerals if that is the only money they are allowed to keep in the bank? How do they save for their approaching old age if they are not able to earn the piddling amount of money that at the moment they are allowed to earn before their pension is reduced? That little extra might just give them jam to go with the bread and butter. Yet the Government has not even looked at that area. When Government senators talk about bringing new principles to pensions, I say that is poppycock. All they want to do is to cut costs. When we look at the position of widows with children, the amount of money they are allowed to earn and the amount we graciously give them as a pension, we could easily believe that no honourable senator opposite ever had to face up to the costs of educating, feeding and clothing children today. How such women do this on the amount of money we give them is a mystery to me. 
Government senators talk a lot about people as individuals and people making individual effort. But here we have a band of professional women who do what is probably the most important job in this country, that of bringing up our children. Yet the Government does not pay them at a rate which is anything like that paid at a professional level. The Government leaves them in terror and fear as to what will happen to them and to their children, and it leaves them with an infinitesimal amount of money. If the Government really believed all that talk about individuals and about individual effort, it would give those individuals the sort of professional pay that they deserve for doing the job that they do. 
We hear talk about people struggling to save for funerals. Have honourable senators opposite really looked at the cost involved? I did, and the only comfort in the whole matter is that when you are dead somebody else pays the bills. The ordinary average funeral when a person is buried these days costs over $200 for the grave and over $450 for the undertaker's charges. Honourable senators may say that some of the undertakers' charges are excessive, but that is the ordinary scale of costs they present. If a person is cremated, it is a little cheaper. It costs only about $175 for the cremation as against $200 for the grave. However, the total costs are between $600 and $700. How do ordinary people provide that sort of money? How does a man and his wife with two or three children provide it? How do poor people ever pay? They used to pay under funeral benefits schemes. These are the sort of funeral benefits schemes which people who are now of an age when they are really worrying about who will bury them enter into: They pay out $60 on the death of a male, $30 for the death of a wife- obviously, it costs less to bury a woman than it does a man- and $30 on the death of an unmarried female. I suppose that was to cover the- there is a lovely word for it - 
No. I suppose that was to cover the unfound treasures- the maiden ladies, who were at home. Obviously the men did not need it. But male pensioners receive $60 and a wife receives $30. That is under the scheme that is coining to fruition now. Under the modern scheme pensioners get $400- remember, the cost of a funeral is between $600 and $700- by paying, from 17 years of age, 19c a week until 65 years of age when they receive the magnificent sum of $400. By the time the 17 year old of today reaches 65 years of age one can imagine what the cost of funerals will be. If a person is 55 years of age on joining this scheme he pays 57c a week to get the $400 benefit. But still he has only half the cost of a funeral. 
How do pensioners pay for their funerals? We know how they pay for them and if honourable senators opposite had any feeling for these people they would be thinking about increasing the amount of funeral benefit rather than cutting it out. These pensioners have a passion to be buried decently. Regardless of the argument that that is rubbish because once we are dead it does not matter, obviously as people get closer to the age when they might die they have a passion to be buried with decency; not to be buried in a pauper's grave; and not to have their house sold to pay for the funeral; nor to have their children go into debt to pay for the funeral. They wish to provide for their own funerals. 
So what do they do on this magnificent pension that we give them to make up the difference between the $40 funeral benefit that we gave them and the $600 which is the cost of a funeral; or to make up the difference between the $60 from a funeral benefit to which they have subscribed and the $600 for a funeral? They go without food, clothes and that insignificant amount of entertainment that they have been able to afford on the pension; they go without beer and a block of chocolate. A visit to the pictures obviously is not at all possible. But most of all they go without food. If we have read anything about people of that age we would know that that is the worst thing that they can do. To live on that cup of tea and a huie bit of bread and butter means that they get to the point of needing that funeral quicker than they otherwise would have needed it. So what we are really doing is consigning these people to using the funeral benefit that they may have been able to save for quicker than would otherwise have been the case. It seems to me to be a dreadful thing to do to people. 
When the present Government was campaigning in the recent general election it made great play on relieving voluntary organisations of the burden of always being the bunny in providing the ready cash in emergency situations. Yet this Bill in no way makes provision for any sort of emergency grants to be allocated by officers of the Department of Social Security to help people in the situations in which they find themselves. After all, we never know when we might suddenly be in a position where our husband or wife has vanished, where our job has suddenly folded up or where our husband or wife is dead and we have children to support, bills to pay, food to buy and rent to pay. 
Ordinary people do not have money in the bank to fall back on. Ordinary people live from one payday to the next. Any honourable senator in this chamber can think himself very fortunate if he has never had to stretch the contents of the pantry to cover the last 3 days of the pay period with his purse empty. The fact is that for ordinary people caught in those emergencies there is nothing else for them to do but to front up to a clerk behind a counter, beg for help, be treated like some sort of fraud and be sent off to beg around the voluntary agencies for a food voucher. It seems to me that governments who are supposed to provide for people in emergencies and to care for people could provide for a very small amount of money those emergency grants that people in those circumstances need. 
The Government talks about people being free and about people being individuals. All the Government is providing in this Bill is the freedom to starve. The Government is obsessed with balancing the Budget but I do not think it should balance the Budget at the cost of people who served their country well up until the twilight years of their lives. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. Outside the Parliament the political party to which the Minister belongs has paid tribute to the work of voluntary agencies in the field of welfare and has said that the Government will assist these agencies in their work. In the Bill relating to social services which was passed recently by the Senate no provision was made for special benefit. How then does the Government propose assisting the voluntary agencies in their work in the field of special benefits and how does the Government propose assisting those people who find themselves in need of special assistance? 
Will the Minister for Education confirm that he has not received the updated reports of the 4 education commissions that were due at the end of March? If he has not received them, is the delay due to the commissions' having to wait on the Minister providing guidelines, such guidelines being an indication of the amount of finance that will be available? 
I preface my question, which is addressed to the Minister for Social Security, by mentioning that last week I asked the Minister whether the Director-General had the final say on appeals made to Social Security Appeals Tribunals and whether he was rejecting a large number of those appeals. Is the Minister now in a position to report on the number of appeals rejected by the Director-General? 
I present the following petition from 47 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Planning Association and similar organisations throughout Australia contribute to the welfare and wellbeing of a great proportion of the Australian people both in family planning and in an advisory capacity on the prevention and control of social diseases. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, give urgent consideration to a favourable decision on the continuation of Federal Government finance to enable the activities of the Family Planning Associations and like organisations to proceed unimpaired throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 1 3 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned members of community organisations respectfully showeth that: 
There is a growing interest and concern in all sections of Australian society for the conservation of the environment, natural and man made. 
That there are also rapidly growing pressures by powerful forces tending towards the destruction of the Australian heritage. 
That it is therefore urgent to appoint the Australian Heritage Commission, which was approved by both sides of this Parliament and to give the Commission sufficient independent staff, resources and funds. 
That Technical Assistance Grants and Administrative Support Grants to community organisations are needed to partially redress the gross imbalance in tehnical expertise and resources suffered by community groups in pressing the community's case against the exploiter. 
That a proper balance between the Government program of public austerity and the need for action in conservation would be a modest increase in the budget allocations in these areas over that of 1975-76 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 1 7 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Federal Government implement the June, 1975 Report of the Schools Commission so that: 
1 ) The present level of Federal Government Education Expenditure is increased to the level recommended by the Schools Commission. 
The role of the Schools Commission as an independent statutory authority free to make its own assessment of the needs of Australian Education is maintained. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will take no measures to interfere with the Schools Commission. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Is the Minister for Social Security aware that the Department of Social Security has no funds with which to assist people who are unemployed, sick or in special need of assistance before regular benefits are due to be paid? In answer to a question on special benefits last week the Minister indicated that there were emergency funds in the Department of Social Security. Will the Minister make some of those funds available to her officers so that people can be assisted in times of special need? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. He should be aware that there is a proposal by the Australian Broadcasting Commission to alter the format of the television program  Bellbird  from 4 quarter-hour programs shown 4 nights a week to a one-hour program shown one night a week at 6 o'clock. As this shows an appalling ignorance of the way of life of  Bellbird's  vast country audience, few of whom could sit down for one hour at 6 p.m., and calls into question the bona fides of those staff members of the ABC who claim the move is aimed at improving the city ratings of the program, will the Minister point out to the Commission that ratings should not be the prime concern of the Commission but the interest and entertainment of country people is of great concern to this Parliament. I know that my colleagues in the National Country Party will support me overwhelmingly in this instance. Will the Minister urge the ABC to leave  Bellbird  alone? 
I present the following petition from 1 3 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned members of the community organisations respectfully showeth that 
There is a growing interest and concern in all sections of Australian society for the conservation of the environment, natural and man-made. 
That there are also rapidly growing pressures by powerful forces tending towards the destruction of the Australian heritage. 
That it is therefore urgent to appoint the Australian Heritage Commission, which was approved by both sides of this 
Parliament and to give the Commission sufficient independent staff, resources and funds. 
That Technical Assistance Grants and Administrative Support Grants to community organisations are needed to partially redress the gross imbalance in technical expertise and resources suffered by community groups in pressing the community's case against the exploiter. 
That a proper balance between the Government programme of public austerity and the need for action in conservation would be a modest increase in the budget allocations in these areas over that of 1 975-76. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 42 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Planning Association and similar organizations throughout Australia contribute to the welfare and well-being of a great proportion of the Australian people both in family planning and in an advisory capacity on the prevention and control of social diseases. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that urgent consideration be given to a favourable decision on the continuation of Federal Government finance to enable the activities of the Family Planning Associations and like organizations to proceed unimpaired throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. May I say, by way of preface, that according to  Mr Williams,  the General Manager for Medibank Australia, total administrative and operating costs of Medibank represent only  3lA  per cent of claims paid, that is, $50m to $ 1,400m? In view of the fact that health and hospital funds have no computers but still work with manual type recording and assessment methods, does the Government expect these funds to be administered more economically and efficiently than Medibank? 
I present the following petition from 74 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Planning Association and similar organisations throughout Australia contribute to the welfare and wellbeing of a great proportion of the Australian people both in family planning and in an advisory capacity on the prevention and control of social diseases. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, give urgent consideration to a favourable decision on the continuation of Federal Government finance to enable the activities of the Family Planning Associations and like organisations to proceed unimpaired throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
By way of preface to my question to the Minister for Social Security, I point out that I have had referred to me the case of a woman who was concerned with home duties for 1 3 years and who, being advised that she could qualify as a librarian by doing the higher school certificate under the women's retraining scheme, was transferred to the National Employment and Training scheme when the women 's retraining scheme was transferred to NEAT. She was deserted by her husband shortly after she began the NEAT scheme. Divorce proceedings ensued. Her claim for maintenance was considered in the light of the fact that she was receiving the NEAT payment. Under the new family law provisions, there is little chance that she can have her maintenance payments increased. Her rent and living expenses have increased and she may now have to terminate the course half way through it. Can the Minister advise what action the Government intends to take in such cases? 
-I seek leave to move a motion. 
I present the following petition from 65 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Planning Association and similar organisations throughout Australia contribute to the welfare and wellbeing of a great proportion of the Australian people both in family planning and in an advisory capacity on the prevention and control of social diseases. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, give urgent consideration to a favourable decision on the continuation of Federal Government finance to enable the activities of the Family Planning Associations and like organisations to proceed unimpaired throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 62 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Planning Association and similar organisations throughout Australia contribute to the welfare and well-being of a great proportion of the Australian people both in family planning and in an advisory capacity on the prevention and control of social diseases. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, give urgent consideration to a favourable decision on the continuation of Federal Government finance to enable the activities of the Family Planning Associations and like organisations to proceed unimpaired throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Can the Minister for Social Security tell me whether the Income Security Review Committee is still meeting? Will it be assessing the changes on family income structure following the recent announcement by the Government, and the disabilities suffered by those families whose incomes have been diminished as a result of the Medibank levy and health fund payments, the removal of tax deductions on mortgage loans, probable cost increases arising from the slashing of Government programs and foreshadowed indirect taxation? 
I seek leave to propose a motion. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is it true, as reported, that the Government has reversed the decision it took to make cheques payable to the patient who would then pay the doctor, so that the system will be that cheques will be made payable to the doctor where the patient has sent an unpaid bill to Medibank? Was this decision to reverse the planned procedures made at the insistence of the Australian Medical Association? Will the Government be as sympathetic to the views of other sections of the community on Medibank as it has been to this pressure group? 
I present the following petition from 209 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That since the Australian Assistance Plan is making it possible for citizens to help themselves, thereby ensuring best possible use of limited Government resources, as shown by the fact that over 200 community projects have been initiated or funded through the A.A.P. in the Outer Eastern Region 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament will take immediate steps to continue the Australian Assistance Plan as recommended in the Report tabled by the Honourable the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Margaret  Guilfoyle in Parliament on the 4th of March, 1976. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following petition from 136 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Planning Association and similar organisations throughout Australia contribute to the welfare and wellbeing of a great proportion of the Australian people both in family planning and in an advisory capacity on the prevention and control of social diseases. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, give urgent consideration to a favourable decision on the continuation of Federal Government finance to enable the activities of the Family Planning Associations and like organisations to proceed unimpaired throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 25 students and staff of Christ College, Victoria: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned students and staff of Christ College and State Colleges of Victoria respectfully showeth 
That the Immigration of teachers recruited from outside Australia be prevented while students with similar University classifications are refused entry into Diploma of Education courses, and school leavers are refused entry into the State Colleges of Victoria. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Is the Minister for Science aware that there is a report by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in the United States of America to the effect that water hyacinth may be nature's answer to man's sewerage pollution problem as it has been shown to be able to absorb pollutants from sewerage and literally to clean the water? In view of this fact, will the Minister reconsider the proposal to import exotic insects aimed at the destruction of this plant, which insects may on past experience become a pest? Will he initiate studies to utilise this extraordinary plant to assist outer metropolitan areas where it appears sewerage works will not be available for a very long time to come? 
I begin my contribution to this debate by quoting from the Press release put out by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  dealing with the Government's action on Medibank. He said: 
Although Medibank in its present form has serious weaknesses it has achieved universal coverage but at the expense of largely disregarding the need for economy and efficiency in overall health care and expenditures by individuals and the community. 
That claim, I believe, it patently untrue. Three weeks ago the Health Commission reported on Medibank. The Commission stated that Medibank was well within its budget. A little over half of its budget had been used in twothirds of the financial year. 
My friend who has just resumed his seat- I refer to  Senator Baume-  in dealing with health services mentioned his feeling that the Government is in danger of giving lesser health services at greater cost. I would remind him of 2 facts. The first is that Medibank is within its budget. The second is to recall to his mind the report of the Nimmo Committee in which the worthy gentleman who headed that body stated: 
Unduly high proportions of contributors' funds are absorbed in operating health funds. 
Private health funds' administrative costs at the moment run in the order of 15 per cent. Medibank runs in the order of 5 per cent. 
As we are talking about the efficiency of Medibank may I quote from the  ACOA Journal.  In a recent letter, Ray Williams, the General Manager of Medibank, stated: 
In a period of 10 months, we moved from a staff of 22 to a staff of 3700, opened 81 offices, installed 31 mini-computers, 633 terminals, 10 medium sized computers, hooked them up by land line to our central system, developed and tested the  programmes,  wrote 18 different training manuals, installed 50 planetary cameras, 26 rotary cameras, 25 microfilm viewers, established 7 film processing laboratories, trained our staff and stood ready to receive claims from 1 July. On the 14th day of July we received 100 000 claims and have never been below that figure. 
Certainly we have had our teething troubles, but by working quite prodigious hours and spending every effort of which we are capable to give service to the public we are getting on top of things. 
That is what was involved in setting up a system that has run so well that the present Government has not been able in this or other debates to point a finger at one deficiency of Medibank, one area where it is falling down on the job that it must do. Now who is talking about efficiency and economy? 
There has been no major increase in the demand for hospital and medical services. Patients' habits have altered little. So, all of the terrible predictions which were made to us about what would happen to people when Medibank was introduced are revealed to be as spurious now as they were then. As we claimed at the time of introducing Medibank, this is because the Australian people are not stupid. They will not rush out and have their appendix removed and legs chopped ofT because they can get those services more cheaply. They have treated Medibank as the good system that it is and have behaved responsibly. The only rip-off which can be reported has come from medicos. These practices are being stopped. 
Speaking of economies and the actions of medicos, I point out that if all doctors charged at the moment the full amount as they will under the private health insurance funds, instead of receiving 85 per cent under bulk billing, the extra cost will be $30m. From statements that the Government has made, it appears that the Government hopes that its new proposals will force 50 per cent of the Australian people out of Medibank. The cost to the community will be another $15m. One wonders whose pockets the Government is worrying about in this instance. 

 Senator Baume made a great deal about members of the Opposition saying that people would be forced out of Medibank. There are 2 options under Medibank- or at least I think from reading the pamphlet that there are 2 options under Medibank. One is to have a levy deducted from one's salary. The other is to pay a premium. The premium payment is reported to be $300. In fact,  Senator Baume  has guaranteed that it will be $300. How  Senator Baume  can guarantee that, I do not know because it is reported also that the amount of money involved depends on an averaging of all private health insurance fund contributions. These can obviously be changed. Already, for example, the Hibernian organisation has said that it could not possibly provide this service under $417. So, we will leave the $300 with a question mark beside it, despite what  Senator Baume  says. 
The pamphlet says that the premium will be $300 which will be $50 less than the supposed payment to private funds. So we are told that if a person opts out of Medibank the payment to the private fund will be $350. If the Medibank premium is taken, the charge will be $300. The only problem is that for $350 with a private fund a contributor receives 85 per cent refund of costs of medical care and intermediate ward care. Under the Medibank premium, a person receives 85 per cent of all medical costs and standard ward care. As has been pointed out already, if a person opts for the premium under Medibank and also for intermediate ward care, another S13S a year must be paid. This means that to join a private fund and opt out of Medibank a person must pay $350. But to stay in Medibank and to receive intermediate ward care a person must pay an extra $80 on the $350 that a person contributing to a private insurance fund pays. That is why we say that people will be forced out of Medibank on the basis of sheer economics alone, unless they have a great devotion to Medibank. 
While people may have a devotion to Medibank they still must look to their bank accounts. By staying in Medibank and seeking intermediate ward care, they will be paying $80 more under the Government scheme for the same care which they will receive from a private fund for $350. No explanation is given why this distinction is drawn or in relation to the denial of freedom of choice. Freedom of choice seems to be the holy grail of the Government parties this year. If the Government believes in freedom of choice, that choice should be between the payment of the same amount of money to private funds or to the Government fund for equal services. 
I remind the Senate that we are talking about economy and efficiency. I point out that 73 private funds remain of the 113 private funds that existed before Medibank was introduced. We know, the Government knows, and above all the public knows that that means that for 73 funds 73 staffs are needed. For 73 funds, there is a requirement for 73 buildings and 73 sets of branch offices together with 73 sets of running costs and administrative salaries. I remind honourable senators that, for all the administrative costs that they paid out, the private health funds that existed before Medibank- there is no evidence to show that this situation has changed -could not tell us how many contributors they had or what age or sex those contributors were. The only thing that they could tell us at the end of the year was the amount of money that they had paid out. So much for their efficiency! 
For the 73 funds which remain there will be 73 separate costs for advertising. The HBA in Victoria has an annual advertising appropriation of approximately $500,000. In the light of the current climate, may I quote from the  Australian Financial Review  which recently reported: 
Private health care funds in 3 States have stepped up Press and radio advertising campaigns to 'keep our name before the public' until new contribution rates are announced and major TV campaigns launched. 
I ask: Whose money will be used to pay these advertising costs? Who pays for this choice of "private health funds? People have more sense than the Government, I am afraid, and long ago they decided that they did not really want to pay out money to provide them with the health insurance cover and find that money spent on full page advertisements in the daily newspapers. 
Contributors' money is used in more ways than one. Apart from the charges to contributors that have increased month by month when the private health insurance funds held a monopoly, they also received a Commonwealth subsidy which they do not like to talk about and which the Government has not brought up. The allocation to Medibank for 1975-76 was $l,439m. The subsidy to the private health funds in the last year before the operation of Medibank was $ 1 ,000m. Where is the economy and efficiency? 
The people of Australia, through government subsidies or their own contributions, were subsidising the construction of buildings, overseas trips and the purchase of private aeroplanes- the whole build-up of private empires by what was a total of 113 and now is a total of 73 private health insurance funds. It has been reported that the Government will not now subsidise the private health insurance funds. So what will be the cost of those private health insurance funds to the contributors? From where will the $ 1,000m that they used to get come? The only source of income other than the Government is the contributions that individuals make to them. So one's mind boggles as to what the actual cost of private health insurance will be in the future. 
The Government is sending the people of Australia back to the inconsistencies, vagaries and pettiness that went on while the private health insurance funds held the field and, I remind honourable senators, back to the days when moral judgments were made by private health insurance funds as to whether they would make payments and when refunds were refused because a service had come from a salaried or sessional doctor, even when it was in areas in which no private doctors were available. 
The private health insurance funds made no provision for illnesses that ran for longer than 12 weeks. One could have been paying contributions for year after year but when one had the misfortune of oneself or a member of one's family becoming very seriously ill with an illness that went on for month after month one received no assistance from the private health insurance funds, despite the amount of money that one had paid in. Counter clerks prevented people from having access to senior officers when there was some dispute over the claims that those people were making. Confusion reigned then and confusion is reigning now. 
May I say humbly that the pamphlet that has been circulated needs another pamphlet to explain it. Perhaps that is not strange, seeing that it was prepared, as I have been told, by a former partner of Patrick Partners. But why the confusion? Because, as my colleague  Senator Grimes  has said, the Government does not properly understand what it has done and does not care what it has done. It has a stated desire to promote competition between Medibank and the private health funds, which is a stupid, moneywasting exercise that will benefit nobody. Why? We are told that it is because the Government wants to give the people of Australia a choice. 
In the confusing situation in which the people of Australia now find themselves in relation to medical care how is the policy on the imposition of a 2 per cent levy to be policed? There will have to be rigid policing in this respect, otherwise how will those providing the services know whether people are in the levy fund- that is the Government fund- or a private health insurance fund? In the bad old days people would claim that they were in, say, the Hospital Benefits Association when they were not, would claim that they were in the HBA when they had made only one payment and had forgotten to make the rest and would find when sickness occurred that they had forgotten to make the HBA payments, had fallen behind and never had the money to catch up. What will hospitals do when people sign forms saying that they are in the HBA and they then find that those people are not in the HBA and do not have the money to pay them? Who will pay the hospitals' bad debts? 
How will the situation be coped with when people leave one fund to go to the other fund and then go back to the first fund? How will the situation be coped with when people do not join either fund? It is very likely that there will be people who will do that. How will the hospitals cope with those people who arrive at the casualty department in no condition to tell them whether they are in the government-run fund or the private fund? How will the private funds cope with the people who take advantage of the fact that there is no delay now :.n joining the private funds and who join the private funds and have an expensive operation almost immediately thereafter and then opt out of them and go back to Medibank before the private funds have had a chance to get their money out of them? 
As  Senator Grimes  has said, pity the poor paymaster, who will not know from week to week what funds his people are in. Pity the worker who moves from one area to another or who changes jobs and, as used to happen, believes that all firms take out money for medical insurance, only to find to his sorrow when he needs assistance from Medibank or the private health insurance funds that his payments had stopped months before? There will be confusion supreme. Why? 
I believe that people accepted Medibank with relief. All that confusion, all that extra cost and all that inefficiency were part of the only health insurance funds that they knew and when the Medibank proposition was put before them they overwhelming supported it. As politicians we know that they supported it through 2 elections. A gallup poll conducted last year- we know that gallup polls are not favourably disposed towards the Australian Labor Party- came up with the finding that 74 per cent of the people said that they approved of Medibank and wanted it to stay. Does that indicate in any way that they wanted freedom of choice? Are they interested in private health funds building empires? 
The Government said that it would not interfere with Medibank. To quote my friend  Senator Baume,  the Prime Minister said that it would maintain Medibank and that the standards of health care would be maintained. But I quote the words of the Prime Minister on  Monday Conference  last Monday week when, on being asked to comment on part of his policy speech in another area, he said: 
That policy speech was obviously specifically directed to the circumstance in which it was made. 
How very true. The Government would not have been game to go to the people in that election and say that it was going to do away with Medibank, that it was going to threaten Medibank in any way. So, for the purposes of the election, it said: 'We will maintain Medibank and the standard of health care will be maintained'. But in what form is Medibank being maintained? It is being whittled away. People are being enticed, because of cost, to go back to the private health funds and by the time they find out that the private health funds are in no way better than they were- in fact, that they will be providing less care than they provided previously- the Government will have found it necessary to wind up Medibank because obviously it is not needed and the choice will be between the type of second-class pensioner medical service that we had before and the inefficient, wasteful, over-priced private funds that we had prior to Medibank. 

 Senator Baume wonders why the unions are taking up the cause of Medibank. The unions represent a very large proportion of the people in this community. The unions know that that very large proportion of people in the community welcomed Medibank, welcomed its efficiency and economy and welcomed the fact that it took the terror out of being ill and took the terror out of having to pay excessive private health insurance funds, and because they care for their members and because they know that 74 per cent of the people of Australia want Medibank retained they are going in to bat for it. What else does one do when a government disregards such a large proportion of the people of a country and their wishes? In conclusion, I urge the Government to stick to its election promise. I urge it not to throw the community back into the chaos and confusion that existed prior to Medibank. I ask it to promote Medibank for the millions, not millions for the private health funds. 
-In rising to support this Bill I must correct the Government speakers in their supposition that this is the first time that women in Australia have received some recognition. I should have thought that the people who have been so concerned with women's rights and the role of women in society, as  Senator Baume  has been, would have remembered the supporting mothers' benefit which the Labor Government introduced and which for the first time gave mothers a real chance to choose between staying at home and looking after their children or parking them somewhere and going out to work. I hardly think that an increase in child endowment is in any way in the same class as the introduction of the supporting mothers' benefit. 
In talking about paying some extra money to women, let us look at the sorts of things that governments should be doing to support women who are contributing so much to our society by being mothers and home makers. Think of the supporting services that young mothers in new suburbs need to make their lives livable. Think of the child care services that the mothers in those areas need so that they can go to a doctor or hospital. Think of the child care services that should be given so that young mothers going to hospitals to have their new babies can go with some peace of mind rather than wondering how on earth they are going to manage while they are in hospital. Think of people in the outer suburbs of the large cities of this country who in this day and age when we can put a man on the moon do not have sewerage connected to their homes and have to worry about all the things that worry young mothers with small children when they do not have sewerage systems. Think of the houses that people with  Targe  and small families need to have provided for them at a price they can afford. Think of the scheme that is in existence at the moment whereby people have to save $40 a week to get enough money to be able to receive the $3,000 grant that this generous Government will give them to help fill the deposit gap. 
Will these people be able to spend more because we have increased the child endowment? Poor women have always needed the money badly and have always spent it and will continue to spend it. Women who are better off have always put the money away for their children and they will continue to do the same thing.  Senator Bonner  has said that we will be giving women money that they can spend as they see fit. Does he not know how the women who need child endowment deal with it? They are not in any position to spend money as they see fit. Women who need the money will have to spend it as they have always spent it-on paying the milk bills and the grocer's bills and buying children's shoes. The family income is not enough. How much better off will they be if their husbands' wages are reduced by extra tax and extra Medibank costs? 
In families where husbands and wives work as a team, in many instances the Government is taking from the husband and giving to the wife. Perhaps it is giving her a little more. In families which are not a team, the Government is giving to the wife but she will lose because her husband will take from the housekeeping money the extra amount he sees her getting in child endowment. What has the Government really done for women in need? Some of the statements made by members of the Government smack of playing God. The Government has not played God and it has not brought a new liberty to women. This Bill does not give recognition to women as homemakers. How could it? By a little extra cash? Does that recognise the valuable role played by homemakers and mothers? This Bill gives some money to some people who need a lot more. The Government should not get carried away. It has not finished. It has to give people a real chance. To people in need, any money is better than no money at all. 

 Senator Baume talked about large families and poverty, large families and cash. What do large families need? How many payments of child endowment would it take to give everybody proper sewerage? How many payments of child endowment would it take to provide efficient economic public transport systems which would meet the needs of large families? How many child endowment payments would it take to give families, large or small, the chance to start life with a home of their own at a cost they can afford, not spending long years in the hopeless cause of trying to save the money for the deposit on a house while paying rent which are rarely a fair percentage of their incomes? We could talk about consumer protection. What do these women go out and spend money on? They buy shoes for their children which fall apart after the first couple of wearings. Governments can do something about that. They buy jumpers to keep their children warm which fall apart after the first washing. Governments can do something about that. What about relieving these pressures on people with families? 
The Government has placed some more cash in the hands of some people, but it should take the matter further. Do not keep people in poverty with handouts. The Government should recognise what people in these circumstances really need and give them the choice that it is so keen people should have to manage their own affairs. This scheme is no alternative to proper income stabilisation. Do it properly, and not with this padding, this window dressing. In conclusion, may I say that I do not believe that for people in need there is any new world dawning by giving large families an extra $15 or so a week. 
-I present the following petition from 204 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Planning Association and similar organisations throughout Australia contribute to the welfare and wellbeing of a great proportion of the Australian people both in family planning and in an advisory capacity on the prevention and control of social diseases. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, give urgent consideration to a favourable decision on the continuation of Federal Government finance to enable the activities of the Family Planning Associations and like organisations to proceed unimpaired throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. Under the new arrangements that have put child care under the control of the Department of Social Security, can the Minister indicate the role that will be played by the State consultative committees which worked with the Interim Committee for the Children's Commission? Will the same degree of participation and co-operation be sought from these committees, volunteer groups of mothers and community workers who gave ungrudgingly a great deal of their free time to establish projects for working and non-working families? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. Under the Australian Assistance Plan such schemes as the handyman services for pensioners and the home help schemes organised with the Country Women's Association were established with very modest funding. Will the Minister reconsider Commonwealth Government involvement in such projects, now that they have been started, if the State governments prove unwilling to take up such financial commitments? 
I present the following petition from 1 40 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That Medibank has proved to be the cheapest and most efficient means of bringing health care to Australian citizens and that the citizens of Australia have received Medibank as a great and valued social reform. 
That Medibank has proved itself to be a far superior system of health care than was offered by the private funds prior to July 1975. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will observe the promise made by the Prime Minister in his policy speech that 'We will maintain Medibank and ensure the standard of health care does not decline'. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present two petitions, similar in wording, from 51 and 2 citizens of Australia respectively, as follows: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate, in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth do humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government: 
Subscribe to the view that the Australian Broadcasting Commission belongs to the people and not to the government of the day whatever political party. 
Eschew all means, direct or indirect, of diminishing the independence ofthe Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Reject all proposals for the introduction of advertising into ABC programs. 
Develop methods for publicly funding the Commission which will prevent the granting or witholding of funds being used as a method of diminishing its independence. 
Ensure that any general enquiries into broadcasting in Australia which may seem desirable from time to time shall be conducted publicly and that strong representation of the public shall be included within the body conducting the enquiry. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Peitions  received, and first petition read. 
Prisoners in the Soviet Union 
I present the following petition from 96 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That Medibank has proved to be the cheapest and most efficient means of bringing health care to Australian citizens and that the citizens of Australia have received Medibank as a great and valued social reform. 
That Medibank has proved itself to be a far superior system of health care than was offered by the private funds prior to July 1975. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will observe the promise made by the Prime Minister in his policy speech that 'We will maintain Medibank and ensure the standard of health care does not decline'. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present a petition from 1 80 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Planning Association and similar organisations throughout Australia contribute to the welfare and well-being of a great proportion of the Australian people both in family planning and in an advisory capacity on the prevention and control of social diseases. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that urgent consideration be given to a favourable decision on the continuation of Federal Government finance to enable the activities of the Family Planning Associations and like organisations to proceed unimpaired throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 49 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate, in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth do humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government: 
Subscribe to the view that the Australian Broadcasting Commission belongs to the people and not to the government of the day whatever political party. 
Eschew all means, direct or indirect, of diminishing the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Reject all proposals for the introduction of advertising into ABC programs. 
Develop methods for publicly funding the Commission which will prevent the granting or withholding of funds being used as a method of diminishing its independence. 
Ensure that any general enquiries into broadcasting in Australia which may seem desirable from time to time shall be conducted publicly and that strong representation of the public shall be included within the body conducting the enquiry. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. It appears that certain private health funds are setting out to confuse the people of Australia in advertisements placed in daily newspapers by misquoting the cost of Medibank Private and the benefits gained. For instance, in the Melbourne  Age  today the Australian Natives Association headed its advertisement  Break the Medibank Barrier,  and quoted its rates as $6 as against $6.90 for the same benefits from Medibank. In fact the position for a large number of Australians is that they can stay in Medibank, pay the levy and take out some extra cover for Medibank Private and achieve for a lot less than $6 the same cover as ANA offers. As this seriously misleads the people of Australia will the Minister have these advertisements suspended until he can have the matter of false and misleading advertising investigated? 
I present 2 petitions, similar in wording, from 47 and 69 citizens respectively, as follows: 
To The Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate and The Honourable  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That distress is being caused to social security recipients by the delay in adjusting pensions to the Consumer Price Index months after goods and services have risen, and that many medications, formerly a pharmaceutical benefit, must now be paid for. 
In addition, State Housing Authority waiting lists for low rental dwellings for pensioners become never less, and funeral costs increase ever greater. 
Your petitioners call on the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to: 
Adjust social security payments instantly and automatically on announcement of increases in the quarterly Consumer Price Index. 
Restore pharmaceutical benefits deleted from the free list. 
The States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act 1974, eroded by inflation be updated and increased to overcome the back-log. 
The funeral benefit be updated to 60 per cent of a reasonable funeral cost. This benefit, when introduced in 1943 at 200 shillings ($20.00), was seven times the pension at that time of 27 shillings ($2.70) per week, or more than twice the basic wage of 97 shillings ($9.70). 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received, and first petition read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Administrative Services. Did the Academic Salaries Tribunal present a determination and 3 reports to the Minister on 22 July in accordance with the provisions of the Remuneration Tribunals Act? Was the academic salaries review made public at about the time of its presentation to the Minister? Is there any reason for delaying the presentation to Parliament of the tribunal's review of academic salaries. 
I present the following petition from 1 99 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Planning Association and similar organisations throughout Australia contribute to the welfare and well-being of a great proportion of the Australian people both in family planning and in an advisory capacity on the prevention and control of social diseases. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that urgent consideration be given to a favourable decision on the continuation of Federal Government finance to enable the activities of the Family Planning Associations and like organisations to proceed unimpaired throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 1 74 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia, by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That Medibank, as set up in July 1973, has proved to be the cheapest and most efficient means of bringing health care to Australian citizens and that the citizens of Australia have received Medibank as a great and valued social reform. 
That the above-mentioned form of Medibank has proved itself to be a far superior system of health care, than was offered by the private funds prior to July 1 975. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will observe the promise made by the Prime Minister in his policy speech that 'We will maintain Medibank and ensure the standard of health care does not decline'. During the December 1975, election we believed that the Prime Minister was referring to the original form of Medibank. 
We submit that the current changes to Medibank negate the original philosophy; they introduce and encourage a tiered form of health care which relates more to the wishes of health care providers than the needs of the consumers. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 124 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Planning Association and similar organisations throughout Australia contribute to the welfare and well-being of a great proportion of the Australian people both in family planning and in an advisory capacity on the prevention and control of social diseases. Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that urgent consideration be given to a favourable decision on the continuation of Federal Government finance to enable the activities of the Family Planning Associations and like organisations to proceed unimpaired throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I preface it by saying that I am reminded by a recent demonstration that Saturday, 1 1 September is the third anniversary of the military coup in Chile. Therefore, I ask: Why has this Government found it necessary to upgrade the status of our diplomatic mission to Chile to that of a full ambassador, in view of the fact that the United Nations has condemned the Chilean regime for its violation of human rights? 
I present the following petition from 1 97 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Planning Association and similar organisations throughout Australia contribute to the welfare and wellbeing of a great proportion of the Australian people both in family planning and in an advisory capacity on the prevention and control of social diseases. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, give urgent consideration to a favourable decision on the continuation of Federal Government finance to enable the activities of the Family Planning Associations and like organisations to proceed unimpaired throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present two petitions from 156 and 145 citizens respectively, as follows: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That Medibank has proved to be the cheapest and most efficient means of bringing health care to Australian citizens and that the citizens of Australia have received Medibank as a great and valued social reform. 
That Medibank has proved itself to be a far superior system of health care than was offered by the private funds prior to July 1975. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will observe the promsie made by the Prime Minister in his policy speech that 'We will maintain Medibank and ensure the standard of health care does not decline'. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
-Can the Minister for Social Security give the Senate the actual funding made to rape crisis centres in Australia? Has the funding been reduced and, if so, by how much? For instance, I am told that the centre in Sydney has had its allocation reduced from $2,400 to $400 which will prevent the centre from having a telephone, and a rape crisis centre without a telephone is practically useless. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. It relates to the grant to FILEF- the Federation of Italian Labourers, Emigrants and Families- under the welfare rights program which the Minister has decided to terminate at the end of the year. When did she make the decision to chop off FILEF 's grant, as she gave no indication when she visited its office on 13 July last that she intended to do so but she used the axe on 17 August? The first explanation was that there was duplication in 2 Italian organisations receiving grants, until it was pointed out that there were now 2 single parent organisations receiving grants. As her second explanation to the Estimates Committee last week centred on the proximity of the NOW-North West One Stop Welfare- shop at Coburg to the FILEF office, I also ask whether she has read the account of the NOW experiment in the Coombs report which refers to the lack of interpreter services there for the heavy migrant population? As the NOW shop cannot take the place for FILEF clients of an Italian information and advisory organisation, will she reconsider restoring the 6-month grant from the emergency funds at her disposal? 
I rise to talk briefly about a matter that concerns me somewhat. One of the things I have learnt since I became a senator is that members of Parliament are supposed to know everything about everything. They are a source of information for all the people in the electorate. The people expect them to know what governments, government departments, semi-government authorities and local government bodies are doing. It is difficult to keep up with all the information that is put out, but it is impossible if the material is not available. It is difficult to believe that amongst that mountain of paper that descends upon us every week all the material is not available. Last week's newspapers and journals had front page stories about the Industries Assistance Commission's draft report on assistance to the performing arts with seemingly intimate details of that report. I do not know whether they had correct details of the report, because I do not have a copy of the report and I cannot get a copy of it. 
My office has had dozens of inquiries about how, why and what it will affect and what people should do. I have no real knowledge of what the report says or what people should do. I am told that until Friday of this week I cannot obtain a copy of the report. My colleagues inform me that members of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts have copies, that witnesses who appeared before the Industries Assistance commission have copies, and evidently every news agency has copies; but we as members of Parliament cannot receive copies. Yet the cover of the copy of the report I borrowed from a colleague states: 
The draft is being made available to give interested parties an opportunity for examination and comment within the Commission's public inquiry system before the report is finally settled. 
I am an interested party, and a lot of people who contact my office are interested parties. I am afraid that the exercise has been utterly useless as far as I am concerned. It seems to me ridiculous that members have no copies until weeks after publication, and I take exception to that fact. This Parliament calls for these reports, and it seems that we are the last people to get them. Therefore I ask that the Government takes steps to ensure that members receive copies of material such as this report at the earliest possible opportunity. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a statement. 
I thank the Minister for the information he provided. When the system was changed and draft reports were brought in I wrote to the Industries Assistance Commission and asked to be put on the mailing list for such draft reports. I have never received any. As we have no real knowledge of when these reports will be released, it is very difficult to request that a copy be delivered on a particular date. Could the Minister have all parliamentarians placed on the mailing list so that when the reports are ready we shall receive copies? 

 Senator DURACK (Western AustraliaMinister for Veterans' Affairs)- I shall endeavour to carry out the honourable senator's request. 
I present the following petition from 780 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia, by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That Medibank, as set up in July, 1975, has proved to be the cheapest and most efficient means of bringing health care to Australian citizens and that the citizens of Australia have received Medibank as a great and valued social reform. 
That the above-mentioned form of Medibank has proved itself to be a far superior system of health care, than was offered by the private funds prior to July, 1975. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will observe the promise made by the Prime Minister in his policy speech that 'We will maintain Medibank and ensure the standard of health care does not decline.' During the December, 1975, election we believed that the Prime Minister was referring to the original form of Medibank. 
We submit that the current changes to Medibank negate the original philosophy; they introduce and encourage a tiered form of health care which relates more to the wishes of health care providers than the needs of the consumers. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I wish to ask the Minister for Education a question regarding the St Albans curriculum development project in Victoria. This project covered 6 primary schools, a high school, 2 Catholic schools and one technical school. Under the scheme 6 units had been established whose aim was to show that the literacy level in the area could be improved if an alternative approach to teaching were adopted. The scheme, which had the enthusiastic support of a lot of parents who regarded it as successful, was granted $43,000 in December 1974 and became operational in August 1975. The funds for this scheme were frozen on 10 August 1976 and no explanation was given; nor can the parents or the director obtain an explanation. Can the Minister tell us why such a scheme should have its funds frozen without any explanation? 
I present the following petitions from 15 and 38 citizens of Australia respectively: 
To the Honourable  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the Australian Broadcasting Commission belongs to the people and not to the government of the day whatever political party. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled should 
Eschew all means, direct or indirect, of diminishing the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Reject all proposals for the introduction of advertising into ABC programs. 
Develop methods for publicly funding the Commission which will prevent the granting or withholding of funds being used as a method of diminishing its independence. 
Ensure that any general inquiries into broadcasting in Australia which may seem desirable from time to time shall be conducted publicly and that stong representation of the public shall be included within the body conducting the inquiry. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received and first petition read. 
I present the following petition from 24 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That those who have retired and those who are about to retire, are being severely and adversely affected by inflation and Australian economic circumstances. 
The continuance of the Mean's Test on pensions causes undue hardship to them. 
We call on the Government to immediately abolish the Mean 's Test on all Aged Pensions. 
To ensure a pension for all on retirement, and a guarantee that all Australian citizens will retire with dignity. 
Acknowledge that a pension is a: 'right and not a charity' 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. Will the level of financial assistance for local government be the major influence in determining the level of rate increases in the current financial year? 
I rise to support the amendment moved by my colleague,  Senator Grimes.  I wish that  Senator Baume  had spent more time telling us what the radical innovations were, and more time in spelling out the measures that the Government he supports is going to take, than in talking about what the Labor Party did or did not do. It demonstrates a lack of conviction on his part that the only thing he could find to talk about was what happened in the last 3 years rather than telling us what is going to happen in the next 3 years. Obviously there is a gap in his argument, as we all know. I wish that he would go out and tell the pensioners of Australia how much better off they are going to be under this Government's legislation because they, like us, seem to have failed to take the point that this Government is going to do so much for them in a radical way to improve their real standard of living. After all, they should know where their best interests lie, I would think. 
This Government really stands condemned because of the same old hypocritical approach to the whole question of social security. In the bad old days when the Parties opposite were in office they used to give the pensioners 2 bob and a kiss the day the Budget was being brought down. They have not changed very much. They are now piously handing the pensioners an increase on the basis of the consumer price index but what Government supporters fail to point out is that the Government delays giving that increase for 5 months. It does not give the pensioners the increase immediately. It waits 5 months, and in the meantime people have to pay the increased prices out of the old pension rate. So rather than preserving the real value of the pension which is the claim of Government supporters, what they have very effectively done is to cut the real value of the pension because they cannot have it both ways. They cannot, on the one hand, let prices rise and leave people with a certain amount of money to pay for the goods and services they need, and then 5 months later when prices have risen even more recompense the people for the price rises which occurred 5 months earlier. So if Government supporters were honest they would admit that in actual fact they have decreased the real value of the pension rather than increased it. 
There is no way pensioners can ever catch up. Once you are behind, you are behind. You cannot give a person an increase in 5 months time and say: 'That is to compensate you for the earlier increase'. The prices have gone up; the money has been spent and these people do not ever catch up again. These people have to eat. They have to keep warm. They have to be clothed. They cannot do any of those things when they are on less money than the rest of the community receives. If they try to do it on less money than the rest of the community receives, they become ill. In the field of pensions this Government has not done a great deal to help these people. Honourable senators opposite will recall that the number of items on the pharmaceutical benefits list has been slashed. If they talk to groups of old age pensioners about that they will find the pensioners are in disarray about it, because the pharmaceutical products which they were taught to rely on by the medical profession of this country are suddenly denied to them and they cannot adjust to whatever products are put in their place. So they try to buy the things they were used to out of the reduced pension on which they now exist and they are even further down the drain. If they do continue to rely on the items that are still on the list, they have to pay the increased cost for those items. I remind the Senate the prescription fee for pharmaceutical benefit items has been increased to $2, so again these people are behind the 8-ball. With a reduced pension they have to pay more. 
Rents are rising for pensioners as are other costs. The supplementary benefit that was brought in was designed to bridge the gap for people who had no other income but the pension has not been increased. This is a benefit to help the aged, the invalid, the widows, the supporting mothers, all the vulnerable people in the community, all the people who have no other resources and who have only themselves to rely on, but it has not been increased. So again these people are further behind- the gap becomes wider. There has been no increase in the supplementary benefit or in the dependants allowances. The people who need those benefits are the people who have not got other resources, but prices go up for them just the same. Their kids have to eat. Their kids have to be clothed. Their kids have to have shoes. The fares to school are no cheaper for their kids. Unless they crawl and take some sort of side benefit, their children have to pay the same price for a school uniform and for school books. So again the vulnerable people in the community suffer. 
These are the groups of people who are more likely to suffer because when their children leave school this year the children will not be entitled to receive the unemployment benefit for 3 months. These are the people whose children are most likely to be in that group, having to leave school in December this year, having to find a job and finding it very difficult because, as we know and as the people in Australia are becoming more aware, there are going to be more and more children unable to find jobs when they leave school. Parents will have to keep their children for that 3 months until the children can go on to the unemployment benefit, and bear in mind there is no increase in the unemployment benefit for children under 18 years of age. The people in this situation who need social security assistance from the Government are the children who are most likely to be leaving school at the earliest opportunity and be looking for a job, but for those under 1 8 years of age there is to be no increase in the benefit. 
In November 1975 of the 279 000 unemployed 67 000 were aged between 15 years and 19 years. In December this year that number is likely to increase. Yet those children will not get an increase in the benefit. It is easy for honourable senators on the Government side to say that parents have a duty to support their children, but duty does not pay the bills. Duty does not help a parent feed a 1 7-year-old boy. It does not help to buy shoes for the boy's feet that keep growing at an extraordinary rate, or a coat to cover the arms that keep shooting out of the sleeves. How can he get a job if he has not got clothes that look decent? If I recall correctly this whole horrible dole bludger unemployment argument that went on, we were told that some youngsters who turned up looking for a job were not dressed as though they really wanted to get a job. All I can say is that I think there are going to be a few more turning up looking as though they do not want to get a job because if as honourable senators opposite say that to get a job they have to have decent shoes, decent clothes and clothes that fit, the parents of these children are not going to be able to afford those things. As I have said, there is to be no rise in the unemployment benefit or sickness benefit for people under 1 8 years. I am one of those who believe there should be a rise. I did not agree when the Government I supported brought it in and I did not agree when this Government brought it in. 
I believe that children who leave school to go into the work force are human beings and they should be treated in the same way as other people are treated. After all, at 18 years of age they can vote. At 18 years of age we can send them away to war, but 6 months earlier we presume they do not eat as much, they pay less fares, they do not need clothes- in other words, they are second class citizens. The duty of parents to their children is one thing, but as I have said, duty does not pay the bills. We should know how much it costs to keep children. There are people who cannot carry that burden. If honourable senators opposite think those people should be assisted in some way to keep up with the rest of the community they should take that feeling through and look after the children under 18 years of age whether they are at school or not. 
We told the children who will go out to find jobs in December this year that if they were good, if they stayed at school and if they worked hard the world was their oyster. It is very hard to face a girl who finishes up in your office after she has been to 49 different establishments looking for a job and still has not got one and who by that time is starting to believe there must be something wrong with her. She cannot get a job in this world which said to her: 'You be good; you go to school; you do your work and out you go'. Nobody wants her. She is told by the Government that she is a dole bludger. We are told that these sorts of people must be given an incentive to work. Some of the people who say those things ought to sit in the employment offices in country towns and look into the eyes of the kids sitting there who believe there is not any place for them any more. We cannot really blame them for going out and throwing a brick through a window somewhere, because the world has nothing to offer them. Now we are telling them that, apart from their being dole bludgers, incompetent and not trained properly- none of which is their fault- some of them will never work and will get less dole money because they are not equal to other workers who are unemployed, let alone being equal to workers who can find jobs. Their only crime is that they are young. It appears that the old men in this Government have forgotten what it was like to be young and have forgotten how one can be hurt by these things. I suggest that honourable senators opposite go out and sit in some of these employment offices- country or town offices- and look at the kids who sit there day after day. I suggest they watch the light die in the eyes of these kids as the world closes up on them. For that, they are being told that they are second class citizens. 
Another group in the community does not come within the ambit of these Bills. I am referring, of course, to unemployed women in the community. The Institute of Public Affairs review came out with an interesting article, with which I am sure all the Government senators would agree, which pointed out that of the 279 000 unemployed in November, 130 000 were females. It went on to say that of that 130 000, 52 000-40 per cent-of those were married and, therefore, mostly second income earners and it was likely that relatively few of the recorded unemployed would be in serious economic straits due to loss of job opportunity, which shows how much the old men in the Institute of Public Affairs know about people. 
There are women in Melbourne who will never have families because they cannot afford to stop working. They are paying between $90 and $150 a week off the mortgages on their houses. They are not going to work to provide the wall-to-wall carpets, the second car or the second refrigerator- I am not saying that those things are not needed- and they are not going to work to provide for their children's education because, as I say, most of them will never have children. They are going to work to buy their house. They are paying an incredible amount of money for a house on a 50 feet by 120 feet block of land. This acquisitive society has sold them on the idea that they must have the house and they must have the goods in it. For the Government to say that for them to lose their job will not create a serious economic problem for them shows that the Government has no idea of how real people live. Those women are not paid unemployment benefits. They are rarely counted in unemployment figures because some of them truly believe that they are not workers. They have a husband who goes to work and if he loses his job he is the person who should go on the unemployment statistics, but they, as women, just go out to work to provide this extra money and are not to be counted. I query the unemployment figures because I truly believe that many women in the community are really unemployed but are not registered and, therefore, are not counted. It is all very well to say that they have one income in the family. What will happen to the lives and to the economic fabric of this community if those women lose their jobs and there is no unemployment benefit for them is something that I think the Government has a duty to look at. I think the Government should examine this question soon. As it is, those women tend to turn up on the doorsteps of local doctors asking for drugs such as valium so that they can stop thinking about the terrible situation in which they find themselves. Real concern should be shown for these women. 
By the same token, real concern should be shown by this Government for women who need rape crisis centres, women's refuges and women's health centres. Unfortunately, I know it  is  still likely that when one talks about rape crisis centres there is likely to be amusement. I think the amusement or the sly grins of people come from the fact that so many men these days are starting to think that perhaps it is an urgent situation but they are too embarassed to talk about it. If one examines the statistics and realises that, of all violent crimes, rape is the crime that is increasing at the greatest rate, one has to acknowledge that the community at large and governments in particular have to do something about it. It is not, I believe, a failure on the part of the Government to understand what the situation is but rather a cynical rejection of the need for refuges and centres of this kind. 
I believe that the Government knows quite well that women need to have rape crisis centres and that the situation as regards women, the law and rape in our community is serious. I believe the Government knows that women for all sorts of reasons find they have to leave home in the middle of the night, with or without their children, with or without their goods, and have to find somewhere to go, someone to talk to and some time to assess the situation. I believe that members of the Government know that women have to do that. I believe they know that in many ways the medical profession in Australia has failed women and that the women's health centres are trying to grow up as a result of that failure. The Government rejects this need, and I should like to know on what basis it rejects the need. 
It is not a matter of whether we did anything when in government. If a need exists, the present Government should do something about it. Honourable senators opposite should not live in the past; they should live in the future. How many votes can be gained from around women's centres, women's refuges or rape crisis centres? We did not even hear of those centres when this Government was in office for 23 years. The Labor Government was in government for 3 years but now the rape crisis centres are turning into pumpkins and the present Government believes that if it shuts its eyes they will all vanish and the problem might no longer exist. But the problem does exist and the Government has to face up to it. Little research is being done into women's troubles, into the effects of the pill, into illnesses that are peculiar to women, and little research has been done into the fact that births are now taking place in office hours. Nobody knows what the result of that will be. If the Government acknowledges that those problems exist but claims that we did nothing about it, I say in return that the Government should do something about these problems. The problems exist, honourable senators opposite are members of the Government and governments are supposed to be responsible. 
The Government's excuse at the moment for not doing anything from a Federal point of view about rape crisis centres, women's refuges and women's health centres is that these matters have been handed over to the States. Let us look at what happened in the States when the responsibility was handed over to them. While we were in government we certainly made money available- for instance, to Victoria for a Women Against Rape centre and for a Women's Health Collective. The Women Against Rape Centre had money made available to it in June 1974, but not one penny of that money has been seen yet because the Victorian Government stands between that money and the people who need it. The Women's Health Collective in Victoria was advised in May 1975 that money had been made available to it, but not one penny of that money has reached the Women's Health Collective to this date. All sorts of reasons have been dreamed up about why the money has not been made available- for instance, the Department had to have a floor plan and the Department had to have details about the rent that was to be paid. All this information was available, but every time this material was handed over a new excuse was found. In fact, the Women's Health Collective does not have any money and the last request it received from the Department was that it should inform the Department on what it would spend its money in 1975-76, yet it has not received one penny of the money that was made available for 1974-75. 
It is pure humbug for the Federal Government on that basis to say that it is handing bulk grants and responsibility to the Victorian Government when it is patently obvious that the Victorian Government is not going to take one step to do anything about this problem. The Victorian Government is on record as having appointed a women.'s adviser because it was not going to be left out of fashionable appointments. So, it appointed a women's adviser and then took every step to tie her hands, to ignore her and to show that the appointment was really window dressing. The Victorian Government in fact pointed out to the more conservative groups of women in Victoria that in fact the women's adviser had no power. As I say, she was window dressing. No substantial change has occurred in the Victorian Government's feelings towards women or to what should be done ibr women. Victorian Government supporters have accepted without a murmur cuts in welfare housing that effect all those groups of women who are vulnerable and cannot assist themselves. They have accepted without a murmur cuts in child care. This shows that they do not give a damn about women who hold positions and need care for their children. They have accepted cuts in expenditure on family planning. They had done very little about family planning before and are not, under the influence of groups such as the Womens Action Alliance, likely to do anything about family planning in the future. They have accepted cuts in migrant and Aboriginal welfare and have not put up one murmur about the cuts. 
Their record shows that they will not do anything about the sorts of things that are vital to people who are in a most vulnerable position. The Federal Government is irresponsible when it acknowledges that certain steps and centres are needed and that people who cannot help themselves must be assisted but does nothing.  Senator Baume  who preceded me talked about preserving the real value of pensions and about assisting with radical innovations. As I say, Government supporters know that they are responsible. They know need exists but with great cynicism they have side-stepped their responsibility and have shown hypocrisy by taking advantage of people who cannot help themselves. I call upon them, if they believe the need is there, to do something positive about the people who cannot help themselves. 
-Can the Minister for Social Security inform the Senate whether or not it is true that the private health funds are sending their computer work to Singapore for processing because it can be done more cheaply there? Does this mean that people outside the control of the Australian Parliament would have access to the health records of Australian people? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. He would be aware that the Working Women's Centre in Melbourne is essential to encouraging and assisting women in the work force, researching the needs of working women, running elementary training school and providing essential information as to rates for work and rights to decent working conditions. The Centre was opened with a Federal grant which ran out in June of this year. The Centre has applied for further funding but to date has not even received a reply. Because the Centre is in danger of closing altogether through lack of funds, will the Minister consider this question as a matter of urgency and advise the Parliament of action to be taken regarding it? 
I ask the Minister for Social Security a question regarding grants for welfare rights officers. In her statement on the Budget the Minister said she was withdrawing the grant from FILEF in order to reallocate it to the organisation called Parents Without Partners. It now appears that the grant to Parents Without Partners will run for a full year- that is for the first 6 months of the 1977-78 financial year as well as the second half of this financial year. Has any other organisation been informed of its receiving a grant in the next financial year? Has the Minister made any decision as to what organisations will receive money in the next financial year? Will the decisions be made on the basis of organisations applying for welfare rights officers, or are others, such as Parents Without Partners, to be encouraged by the Minister personally? 
I would like to ask a question. I refer the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  to clause 3 (2) of the States Grants (Technical and Further Education Assistance) Bill. In doing so I refer to the last paragraph of the Minister's second reading speech in which he said: 
The BUI also provides the first grants for programs to be carried out by non-government adult education bodies. 
Can the Minister give me some idea of what is meant by 'non-government adult education bodies'? Are they adult education bodies? Are they schools for truck drivers, hair dressers or ap- prentices? Are they private coaching schools? Just what are the non-government adult education bodies referred to? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. On 10 November the  Australian  carried an advertisement for the Australian defence forces offering 9750 career opportunities to young people next year. I ask: When will this Government make available a similar number of career opportunities in peaceful pursuits, especially as the Minister for Defence has difficulty in finding opportunities for equality of employment in his Department because of the combatant nature of much of that employment? 
I rise to support the amendment which the Opposition has moved with respect to technical and further education. In doing so, I will quote one of what I think are the most important guidelines in this technical age. It comes from the report of the Technical and Further Education Commission: 
Australia does not possess sufficient skilled manpowereven during the current economic recessions which is characterised by high unemployment. This national problem is aggravated by a fall in the numbers of skilled immigrants and too few Australians undergoing skill training. 
I maintain that too few Australians are undergoing skilled training because of the failure of the Federal and State governments, especially the governments in Victoria and the Federal governments prior to December 1972. One of the ways in which a nation can achieve a skilled manpower force is to get a number of its young people into apprenticeships. That was one way in which in the past we achieved a skilled manpower force and it is one which the Victorian government and the Federal government failed to take up. Employers are reluctant even now because of the economic situation to take on apprentices but even in the buoyant conditions m years gone by the number of apprenticeships that have been taken up in Victoria has been a scandal. None of those responsible- employers, the Victorian Department of Education or the Apprenticeship Commission in Victoria- can escape the blame for that position. 
Employers resented apprentices for some years. Employers could always find someone to do the job. They resented youngsters having time off for training. They resented youngsters having time off to go to technical school and they resented the time journeymen spent in training those youngsters. But at the same time these same employers were not loath to charge full journeymen's rates for the work apprentices did. So if a person's car went into the garage and an apprentice motor mechanic worked on the car the employer who owned the garage was not loath to charge the owner of the car the full journeyman's rates for the work the apprentice did. 
The Apprenticeship Commission in Victoria is, in my opinion, very open to criticism because it has done very little for a long time to protect apprentices and to advise apprentices as to the best course of action they could take. The Commission made very little complaint about the conditions under which apprentices worked. It did very little about the fact that the number of apprenticeships being applied for were falling off. It did very little about pressuring employers to take on more apprentices in the areas in which they should have taken them. It did absolutely nothing about increasing the number of opportunities for girls in the field of apprenticeship and it did nothing about the lack of school facilities or the distances that apprentices in Victoria had to travel to take on apprenticeship training. 
One of the areas which the Apprenticeship Commission was supposed to oversee was the area of protecting apprentices against sacking by employers. After all, an apprenticeship is an agreement between the parents and the employer to take on an apprentice and teach him the trade until he becomes a journeyman. If an employer wants to get rid of an apprentice he is supposed to find another employer to take on the apprentice. There was case after case in Victoria, because the Apprenticeship Commission did nothing about this situation, of youngsters being sacked- literally sacked although the Act says that apprentices cannot be sacked- because their employers said they no longer wanted them, but the Commission did nothing about finding someone to take over the apprenticeships of those young persons. 
The Department of Education stands condemned because it allowed the facilities for apprenticeship training to run down and run down very badly. Instructors in many areas at technical schools in Victoria were struggling to teach apprentices modern techniques with outmoded equipment. For instance, in plumbing while the world has moved on and plumbers now use plastic pipes, plastic connections and the techniques that go with them, apprentices in the technical schools were being taught to use lead. There is no lead plumbing practised actively in the community in Victoria. While apprentices have to deal with cars of very modern construction, instructors in the technical schools were begging people outside for car bodies- any car bodies- on which their apprentices could train. So a car body that was 30 years behind the times could be used in the training of apprentices in this field. Yet the Department of Education in Victoria did absolutely nothing about bringing this situation into order. So apprentices were going through the technical schools under the training of the Department of Education in Victoria knowing little or nothing of modern workshop practices. Their instructors had absolutely no chance to give them a critical evaluation of new material or new methods because the Department itself was 30 years behind the times and as much as the instructors endeavoured to bring their apprentices up to modern day methods they had absolutely no way of doing it under the Victorian Department of Education. Apprentices who lived in the country areas had to travel miles to go to a technical college or they had to do the course by correspondence or give up. If honourable senators had to do a motor mechanics course by correspondence I suggest that most of us would give up. 
In respect of apprenticeships for girls there was one area in Victoria and that was hairdressing. There was nowhere else for girls unless they were very tough ladies or unless they found employers who had some sympathy for their cause. Girls could find no other apprenticeship but in hairdressing. In Victoria I venture to suggest that we must have hundreds of very well trained hairdressers who no longer have jobs. There is a hairdressing school for girls in Victoria. It is predominantly a girls hairdressing school. There are some boys there, I must admit. Honourable senators would not be surprised to know that this school is situated in one 19th century school plus a factory which I think produced jam plus portable schoolrooms dotted about the vacant area and of course if it rains the apprentices get drowned while they are trying to get to the portable classrooms. It is one great rambling rabbit warren. There are raw electrical installations in the building. There are bare boards. There is such a lack of ventilation that when there are- I apologise to honourable senators in this chamber because I suppose they would not know of this- 18 permanent waves being carried out in the one room with the smell of chemicals being used, the sun pouring through the windows which have no protection and 18 very hot machines in the room there are 18 apprentices placed in a very precarious position in respect of their health, so much so that there is a full-time sister in attendance at this hairdressing school for apprentices to deal with the girls who faint because of the impossible conditions they work under and the elderly customers upon whom they practice and who are in turn inclined to faint because of the heat from the machines and the smell of the chemicals which are used. Some of the rooms in this building have no outside light. There are cracks in the walls and the walls look as though they are going to fall down. There are no change rooms. There is no room at all between the lockers where the girls put their outside clothes. The office of the  deputy  principal of the school is literally a broom cupboard. There is no room in the art room to move one 's arm and sketching is very difficult. There is no theatre or proper lecture room. The males who lecture have to do so among the dryers. Because this is the only apprenticeship school in Victoria for hairdressing that gives women any sort of go there is obviously no hope at all for it in respect of funding for technical and further education. 
In that field in Victoria the impetus for funding from the Technical and Further Education Commission was the only hope we had and despite the lack of movement in the apprenticeship field there was a need for experienced manpower and technician courses were set up in Victoria. Several of the technical schools set up technician courses on a part-time basis to enable people to update their skills, to learn new skills. This was going to provide a pool of skilled manpower for the work force. It was going to enable people who realised that in their working lifetime they were going to have to change their skills several times and update their skills. It was opening up a whole new world for a lot of people who had not had the opportunity to obtain any son of skill in the work force before. A cut in the funds allocated to the TAFE Commission means a lot of those courses will be abandoned or the technical schools will have to charge fees. We started to interest a lot of new people in forward looking arrangements which would provide them with skills to fit into the workforce. Now, because they have to pay to acquire those skills, they are not acquiring them as they cannot afford the training. After all, they are paying extra tax to provide for Medibank; there is no deduction for children on their tax returns now and so they have to pay more tax; they are spending extra money out of their income because of the pressure to buy private health insurance that they will not ever need, and many of them are out of work. Once they have to pay to go through these courses to acquire extra skills they opt out and so we are losing the enthusiasm of those people and we are losing the skills which the workforce very badly needs. This is all because technical and further education has had the funding cut off to this area. 
Migrants form a very large proportion of the people who enter the technical and further education field. Technical schools and all the schools in those areas need more migrant teachers because so many of these people who came out to help make Australia a finer, better and bigger country are lost between 2 worlds. We do not want them to be- and they do not want to bemerely factory fodder but unless we encourage their skills, unless we give them the right to be more than an unskilled worker- an apprentice or a skilled technician- and unless we give them the right to become skilled engineers, we are losing out on the capacity they have to offer us. They will not be able to get ahead without some sort of counselling in those areas. If there are no migrant teachers, if there are no interpreters and if there are no counsellors to advise them where they can go and how they can use the skills and the intelligence they have, we will lose out in a vital area. We will lose out on welding these people into the fabric of Australia. We cannot have the teachers or the counsellors needed unless more money is granted to the technical and further education area. At the moment, one of the directors of education in Victoria is overseas endeavouring to recruit more migrant teachers for Victoria. There are people in the ethnic community in Victoria who have the ability to give that sort of counselling, that sort of technique and that sort of education to people in their own language. If these people undertook a crash course teacher training program there is no reason why they could not be of immense assistance and could not cover this course. The unfortunate part of the situation is that unless funds are made available technical colleges will not be able to provide that son of course- a crash teacher training course- to provide for that vital need in a very vital part of our community in Victoria. 
Girls and woman have been ignored in the area of technical education. In November 1974 women comprised one-third of the workforce in Australia. Obviously that number has increased since. Honourable senators would not be surprised to know that although women comprise one-third of the workforce they are at its lowest level. They need very little skill and very little technique to make their way. In every country town junior females form the greatest percentage of the unemployed and something must be done about it. With more direct funding from the federal body women could be encouraged to take up many positive careers in the community. It was said today that lawyers will be in abundance shortly but law clerks will not be in abundance. Women could play a very important role in that area. Technical schools could conduct the necessary courses. In fact, some technical schools have done that already. 
Another area in which women could play a vital role is in the area of community health care. Many workers are needed in this area. The areas of child care and dental care, particularly through rural Australia, are at a low ebb. In many of the rural areas no doctors are available to assist people but there are many devoted women who have a great deal of knowledge and who, with a little more assistance and broadening of that knowledge, could really carry rural health care. The Federal Government needs to inject money into the technical and further education area to make sure that crash courses are made available and to make sure that women undertake courses and go out into the community and become part of the workforce. People will say that crash courses are not good enough or that the money is not available to provide them. I should like to remind the Senate that in time of war we can find money to hold courses to provide the skills and techniques needed. What I am saying is that in the areas of health care, child care, dental care and rural health care we are in a state of war because there are not enough workers in them. These are areas in which the Commonwealth Government could do a lot of good. 
I asked a question this morning about the amount of money that was being spent in providing 10 000 jobs for youngsters in the defence forces next year. Why cannot similar expenditure be put into this other field- the peace field? Why cannot the Government fund technical colleges for extra courses and teachers to provide those sorts of workers for Victoria? No evidence exists which indicates that Victoria will do anything along those lines with the money which it has been granted. In the past Victoria has not accounted in any way for the money that it has been granted for education. In fact, many people in Victoria feel that the money has fallen into a big black hole because they cannot see what good it has done for their children. We want to be assured that the money is spent in areas in which there is the greatest need. So far the Department of Education in Victoria has made bungling, futile attempts to cope with the twentieth century. We hesitate to think what it will do in the twenty-first century unless funds are earmarked to provide skilled tradesmen and skilled craftsmen- men who take care and pride in what they produce- so that we might get back to providing goods that we need rather than goods to throw away. 
We need skilled technicians in a technical age. Unless specific funds are made available women and girls in our community will not be able to take their places as skilled people and courses will not be expanded to include them. The Victorian Department of Education has given no indication that it even knows that these women and girls exist or that they should do anything for them. We need teachers with other languages in the area of technical and further education because we have a great number of people with a great number of skills who, as I said earlier, are lost between 2 worlds. Without the teachers to provide the link between the 2 worlds we are wasting their resources. For those people to achieve their full capacity and to take their integral place in the community, we must have migrant teachers to bring them into this world of ours. That will not happen unless the Federal Government provides specific funds. 
Technical schools- I can speak only of Victoria with any degree of knowledge- traditionally have been disadvantaged. They were the schools to which children went when they were at the end of the row. They were the children who came from disadvantaged homes; they had language difficulties; and they had a dislike of learning because of the way they had gone through the education system. Their home environment was not inducive to their believing that they could do anything better. They had a lack of expectation about what they could do in the world. The need no longer exists for technical schools to cope simply with disadvantaged areas. But with the record that the Victorian Department of Education has there will be no hope of them getting out of that area unless someone provides more funds so that their skills can be developed. 
In that area there is justification for more money being put into capital grants because up to this point in time so many children have come from disadvantaged areas with very little beauty in their lives. There is justification in spending money on beautiful buildings for these people who have never experienced beauty before. Justification can be made for more money being spent on training teachers in these areas to be even more inspired than other teachers. I must say that in some of the schools that I have gone into in that area the inspiration and belief of those teachers in those children and what they could contribute is one of the most beautiful things I have encountered. Up to this point in time the Victorian Government has given no indication that it envisages anything like that for the children in those areas. As I have said, many teachers believe that this is a real area of education. Some teachers believe that apprentices can be given a love of the beautiful things in this life. Because a boy earns his living as a motor mechanic there is no reason on earth why he should not love painting or paint pictures. There are teachers in Victoria who believe that because a boy earns his living practically as a plumber there is no reason why he should not love and create music. But those teachers in the Victorian education system are not getting a great deal of encouragement. While grants of this amount are made in this way to States like Victoria there is no way that the motor mechanics of the future will love or create painting, there is no way that the plumbers of the future will love or create music, and there is no way that the women of Victoria will ever be anything else but the base factory process workers which they are at the moment. I say that Australia is missing out on what these people have to offer. 
The only hope is to have federal grants going straight into that area. To emphasise my point I point out that 16 per cent of youths between 16 and 19 years are unemployed and while $150m is being spent on their unemployment grants only $70m is being spent on technical and further education. What I am saying is that if some people applied their minds to what those youngsters could do for Australia in the areas which at the moment we are ignoring, we could put that $150m to some real good. We could really achieve something in Australia. If honourable senators recently have sat in an office of the Commonwealth Employment Service and watched the light go out of the eyes of these youngsters while they sit there and realise that the world no longer wants them they would believe that that $150m could be put to much greater use to bring these people back into the community of Australia. I applaud the amendment which the Opposition has proposed and hope that we will press on for more funding for technical and further education in Australia. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. Parents ' organisations in Victoria were of the opinion that an amount of $900,000 had been made available by the Commonwealth Government for library grants through States grants. Confusion reigns in Victoria as none of these grants have been paid to schools, although they are usually paid in July. The State Minister for Education on 20 October, when asked when the grants would be made, agreed that there had been some delay in making available to schools these funds which are to be provided in that general area. He went on to say: 
As I understand it, the Commonwealth Government made some changes in its capital allocation that affected the amount, which has to be individually determined on the maintenance side. 
Can the Minister advise the changes relating to capital allocation which have affected the amount allocated to school libraries, what amount of money is now available for school libraries, and when schools can expect to receive the money, much of which has been spent in anticipation? 
-In rising to speak to this Bill I wish to point up the need for urgent action in Victoria in the matter of urban transport. In Victoria we have roads choked with cars. We have freeways that get one from point A to point B in record time but which tip one out at each end into small suburban streets that are quite unable to cope with the amount of traffic using them, and one spends more time getting out of those small suburban streets than one spent on the freeway in the first place. We have drivers who are paying ridiculous amounts of money to park their cars and who have to park their cars long distances from where they work. The physical wear and tear of driving under the conditions we have on Victorian roads at the moment is very bad. We have cars that are becoming more and more battered because of the conditions under which people have to drive on crowded roads and because of the lack of proper places in which to park them. 
Cars are becoming more and more expensive to buy. As has been said, cars are polluting our atmosphere more and more every day. The insurance charges imposed upon those cars are rising constantly and startlingly every month. The cost of the petrol used to drive those cars is rising. It has risen in the last week and, we all know, will rise again and again. That will happen because, for one thing, the product itself is becoming scarcer and scarcer. The cost of building roads is now in the region of billions of dollars, and governments, State and Federal, are finding it more and more difficult to cope with those costs. It is more difficult to cope with the ever-growing network of roads that have to be built and maintained. The quality of the roads that are being built now, despite the cost, is just not up to the constant usage that is made of them. Again and again one hears about roads that have only just been built breaking down in a rather disastrous way and, of course, causing all sorts of accidents. 
While all that goes on we continue to ignore public transport. While we spend billions of dollars on roads and all the things that go with the use of motor cars we spend very little on public transport. In fact, we tend to denigrate it. In Victoria we have trams that do not run according to timetable. So people do not use the trams. That results in the fares on those trams being increased. Fewer people then use them. Fewer trams then run. The costs increase further. And so we go on in ever decreasing circles. When one does find a tram and can get on it one finds that the journey is slow and wearying because the trams are old and the tracks are old. The whole service thereupon tends to fall into the pattern of being used less and less by people who must get from point A to point B in a given time and in a condition that will enable them to work. The trains that we have in Victoria were, in the main, built in the last century. The fares are high. The trains do not run according to timetable. Travellers are left standing on platforms. This happens week after week. 
The trains and trams throughout Victoria do not run on Sundays and do not run at night. They do not run where the great mass of the population is now building houses and they do not go to where the people want to go. So again fewer and fewer people use them. There are no links between lines. So people have to travel miles out of their way into the city and out again to get to places that really would be very close to them if they could go across country. Nothing is being done about providing services to link up with lines that are in existence. In many parts of Victoria at the moment train lines for both passengers and freight are being closed. The State Government says that trains are to be replaced by buses. Elderly people, people without cars and people who do not drive cars are being left high and dry and literally do not know what to do to get from one place to another, to get from country towns into the city. 
The State government says it will replace these trains with buses, but the State Minister of Transport says the buses will be private buses and we know that very soon those services will not run because there is no way the buses can run at a profit. We know there are not enough people in those areas to enable the buses to operate at a profit. What we maintain is that public transport is a utility; that people are entitled to know that they can travel about this country without having to buy a motor car. That is what we get back to all the time. The people are no longer given a choice. They are forced into buying a motor car. They are forced into servicing the motor car lobby or the oil company lobby, whichever we choose to call it-and it is probably all the same. Whatever we call it, it is the great God that is being fed while people are being left high and dry. 
The Minister of Transport in Victoria says that these country lines must be closed because they are uneconomic and people do not use them. Unfortunately people will use those that remain open because they have no choice. Those that are left have carriages that are cold. The service is slow. The carriages are uncomfortable. They were built SO years ago. The same can be said about much of the suburban transport. These trains are to be replaced by private buses. The private buses cannot be worse than some of the transport in the country, but what I am saying is that it is quite within the province of the State Government to provide transport in these areas that is better than the private buses that we all know will not run for very long because there will not be any profit in that sort of transport. 
Public transport is a utility that people have a right to expect. It is not necessarily a moneymaking proposition. People have a right to transport other than a motor car and without making a profit for car manufacturers and oil companies and without causing governments enormous costs in maintaining roads for the community. Unfortunately, more people will be driven to use public transport which it seems will not be available for long because this Government is spending less on country roads. Country roads are falling into disrepair all around Victoria, and more and more people therefore will need public transport that we evidently will not be able to supply. The buses that will replace the trains in country areas cannot match modern rail cars for comfort, speed and economy. They cannot carry the mail, parcels and other goods that trains have been carrying and that modern rail motors could carry. We all know that rail travel can be speedy, smooth and air-conditioned, but funds are needed. For many years the rail system has been allowed to fall into disarray. It appears that States like Victoria are entirely incapable of coping with this problem. 
In contradiction of the Minister's claim in his speech that initiative was taken by the Minister for Transport in 1971, 1 ask the Senate to recall that until the Whitlam Government came to power no money was made available to the States for transport. Such money as was available came from general allocations, and so States fell steadily behind in keeping their transport at least in touch with the twentieth century. In 1971, at a meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council, it was said by the Minister that there was an urgent need for a report on needs for a capital investment program for urban transport, but there was no money, and there had not been any money for a long time. To crow as the Minister did in his speech that provisions in this year's Budget for urban transport meant a 90 per cent increase over the amount made available in 1975-76 is poppycock, because prior to a Labor government no Federal money was made available. Any money made available prior to that was an advance. No money was made available to the States for transport until 1973 and onwards under the Labor Government. The Labor Government recognised that in this day and age with oil becoming a scarce commodity we had to go back to a system of public transport; that the motor car-oil lobby would have to bow out. 
The report of July 1972 in which the Federal Government gave a firm commitment to assist to improve urban public transport was again a token. There was no money. We all know that we all fall into the trap of forming a committee, passing a resolution and thinking we have solved the problem. Obviously the Government prior to December 1972 thought the same. After all, everybody had a motor car, so why did it have to worry about public transport? In Victoria State Minister of Transport Meagher indicated his commitment to upgrading urban transport. When the Whitlam Government produced a prototype of a modern rail carriage that could speedily and comfortably transport people, that could be produced on a Commonwealth basis and that could become standard, took it to Spencer Street and invited people to inspect it and comment on it he did not even acknowledge the invitation, let alone inspect the prototype. So we have people of that miserable, small, petty frame of mind under the thumb of the motor car lobby ignoring the problems of ordinary people when it comes to urban transport. 
The Whitlam Government had to catch up on 23 years of neglect. The Minister's speech complained that the Whitlam Government would commit itself to a new rolling stock program only on a year by year basis, but what the Minister failed to say was that it had a hostile Senate putting it under a continuing threat of lack of Supply and that it faced enormous demands for social services that had been neglected. It had to catch up in a myriad of social service areas. So the Labor Government was forced into such plans, but at least it started. At least it did what no Liberal Government had done. It acknowledged that urban public transport was an important part of Australia and that something must be done. 
As the Minister said in his speech, it is important to learn from experience, and that is what we must do in so many parts of Australia and certainly in Victoria. Before we pull up rail tracks and abandon rail transport, can we just look a little way into the future? If we follow what we have done before, as with trams in Melbourne, we will pull the tracks up this week and in 2 years time we will be spending millions of dollars replacing them because at last governments will have realised that public transport is essential to our way of life. It is essential to a future in which fuel will run very short. 
We complain bitterly at times about people using their cars, about only one person riding in a big, modern car, but for so many people in urban Australia the car is the only means of transport. 
There is no public transport near their homes. There is no public transport that goes near their place of work. The only thing they can do is to buy the infernal motor car and suffer it for the rest of their lives. For so many of them it is even worse. Many of the new areas where they build their homes are not serviced by public transport. If the husband gets to work by using a car, his wife has no possible means of getting the children to school or getting to the doctor or to the shop. So a second motor car is bought. More roads are needed. There is more pollution, more worry and more expense. 
Good public transport for people can provide clean, non-pollutant, fast, efficient transport close to the work location of people. It can supply inter-suburban links so that people do not have to go miles out of their way- if they can ever find the public transport to travel on. It can provide all night transport. Strange as it may appear to some of the powers that be, people do have to travel after 10 o'clock at night. In some areas they have to travel after 8 o'clock at night, or would like to. At the moment sometimes there is no transport after 6 o'clock, 8 o'clock, 10 o'clock or 12 o'clock at night. I have a son who wanted to be an apprentice in the rail industry, but it meant that he would have to do shift work. He was only sixteen, so he could not drive a motor car. But he could not get public transport so that he could be at work at the time his shift started. For these reasons he had to give up the work he wanted to do. It is ridiculous that in the modern 20th century when we can put men on the moon the whole of a city can close down at 8 o'clock unless a person has a motor car and unless he can drive a motor car. 
Sunday transport in parts of Melbourne is completely non-existent. There was a time in Melbourne when the Melbourne and Metropolitan Tramways Board bought a beautiful park in what was the outskirts of Melbourne. It used to run trams to that area so that people could have some relaxation in a country area. That park is now I suppose almost inner city but, despite that, a person cannot get a tram out there on Sunday because the trams do not run. So we have gone backwards. Our grandfathers had glorious pictures of what people could do. In the modern 20th century we have scrapped all those glorious ideas in favour of the great and holy motor car. All these things, all this way of life, have been killed by the motor car lobby. Fortunately the motor car lobby may be about to be killed by the lack of fuel for the motor car, as with so many other plans that were killed. 
Once in Melbourne we had an outer circle and an inner circle railway. It was a beautiful logical concept that ran in a circle around Melbourne. It meant that a person could get from point A to point B without having to travel into the city and out again. But that was too logical for our modern-day legislators in Victoria. So the whole beautiful concept of 2 circles going around Melbourne to make transportation simple and easy was scrapped, again for the motor car. There are rail easements on properties all over Melbourne where our grandfathers planned to have links between railway lines so that all the people would be able to get with ease and in comfort from one place to another place. They again were all scrapped. 
The State Government in Victoria is quite bankrupt of ideas when public transport is mentioned. We know public transport is expensive, as has been said. But look at the cost of private transport. Look at the cost from a pollution point of view. Look at the cost from the point of view of the number of people who are killed or maimed every weekend by motor cars. Look at the cost of maintaining roads and parking areas and the many other things that go with motor cars. In Melbourne we had picture theatres pulled down so that petrol stations could be erected. Dairies were pulled down to allow petrol stations to be built. We are now waiting with bated breath to see what will replace the petrol stations when they are pulled down. The Victorian Government scrabbles from one point to the other. In my view it is up to the Commonwealth Government to take the initiative and to take positive steps. It should not make empty gestures but should at last fight the oil lobby and take an increased financial responsibility for a public utility so as to improve the quality of life in the major cities and the provincial cities of Australia. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Women's Affairs. The Minister would be aware of reports regarding a stripper- female- jumping from a giant cake as part of some celebration by Liberal members in the private dining room of Parliament House. Could the Minister advise whether this is evidence of the Government's commitment to the dignity of women as human beings or is it still content to sell us as some sort of commodity? 
I ask the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs whether he has studied the recommendations of the Toose report, particularly those referring to relevant personal files being made available to a claimant or his authorised representative; those recommending that legal representations be allowed before a tribunal; and those referring to the relaxation of certain health conditions to allow disabled persons to be employed in both State and Commonwealth Government departments? When can we expect the Government to make a statement of its policy in these areas? 
I rise in this debate to make 2 points about Aborigines in Victoria. One concerns the Aboriginal Legal Service Co-operative in Victoria. I make this point: This Co-operative fills what everybody in this chamber would concede was a long felt want. One cannot talk about democracy or people's rights or their right to go to law if they are not provided with the means to go to law. The Aboriginal Legal Service in Victoria had asked for $442,000. In actual fact it has received $3 1 5,000, which is a cut of 25 per cent. Apart from that, fees for barristers and solicitors in Victoria have risen by 25 per cent in the meantime. So in actual fact the effective cut that has been made to the money sought by that Service is 50 per cent. I think, as we all believe in democracy and people's right to go to law, this Government ought to look at that point very seriously to see what can be done about it. 
The other point I raise concerns Aboriginal housing. In Victoria there are 8 Aboriginal housing co-operatives only one of which has been funded to the point of providing housing. The other seven had been funded to the point of administrative costs. An amount of $700,000 was made available to the Victorian State Government for housing. The co-operatives had budgeted for $614,000, so one would not think they were being excessive in their demands. The fact is that they feel from what they have heard on the grapevine without any direct communication that they will be lucky if they get $22,000 of that amount of money and the $22,000 of course covers the administrative costs. In the meantime there has been an Aboriginal housing section set up in the Housing Commission in Victoria. One does not really have to be a genius to know that the bulk of the money will go to the Commission to provide housing for Aborigines. 
I suppose that the housing position in Victoria is not as bad as it is in some other States, and that does not say a lot for the other States. One could not, I suppose, say that housing for Aboriginal people in my State of Victoria is so bad, but nonetheless it is bad according to the way white people in Victoria like to live. The Housing Commission in Victoria tends to build in certain areas bulk lots of housing. It in fact creates ghettos rather than distributing people through the communityand Aboriginal people are part of the community and they want to live in the community as do other people. There is no way that the Housing Commission in Victoria will take special note of the special needs of people. To further my argument I cannot do better than to quote from the report of the Senate Select Committee on Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders on the conditions of Aborigines. I wish more people had read this report and read it thoroughly. One of the points made in that report is this: 
Aborigines lack adequate housing because they are poor. Their poverty is a self-perpetuating cycle, originally partly a consequence of their having been dispossessed of their land. To a great extent, the solutions to Aboriginal poverty are the same as those measures designed to eliminate poverty in Australian society generally, but in addition we must take account of Aborigines' desire to maintain a distinct cultural identity 
Aborigines are poor and so they have bad housing. They have bad housing and so they remain poor and ill-educated. So far the Victorian Government is doing little to break that cycle. As I said, there is not as great a need in Victoria as in some other States but in Victoria under State grants 50 houses were provided for Aborigines in 1975-76 although the outstanding applications as at 30 June 1976 numbered 160- three times as many as the number of houses provided. So far we have no evidence that the outstanding 160 will be caught up with. Yet if cases were made for 160 other sorts of people requiring decent housing in Victoria it would be done overnight, but evidently in this particular area the houses will not be made available. Aboriginal housing societies were set up not just to provide housing for Aborigines. They were set up with other sorts of aims. I quote again from the same Senate Select Committee report which was presented in this place. It says shortly and to the point why Aboriginal housing societies were set up. It reads: 
It is important to remember that the Aboriginal housing societies were originally established with several aims in mind, of which the provision of housing was only one. The societies were primarily to be vehicles for encouraging selfdetermination and community development at a local level. To this end, as well as the provision of housing, they were also charged with the task of developing management expertise among local communities, and also with providing apprenticeship and training programs to alleviate unemployment. They were also used as testing grounds for the application of new ideas in architecture and environmental design in relation to Aborigines. There was, therefore, a variety of tasks assigned to the Aboriginal housing societies, and it should be borne in mind also that the order of priorities was not constant, but changed according to economic circumstances and government policy. 
One of the points about which the Committee felt strongly was that Aborigines as much as any other section of the community had to be given the chance to make mistakes and to learn by their mistakes. They had to be given the chance to manage, to take responsibility, to be whole people.  Senator Jessop  referred to this aspect. 
For the benefit of Aborigines and for the benefit of Aborigines living in Victoria in particular I urge this Government to make more money available so that these tasks may be accomplished. The Government should ensure that money is spent where it is really needed. 
-Has the Minister for Social Security received a letter from the NOW Centre in Melbourne protesting about her withdrawal of the welfare rights officer grant from the Federation of Italian Labourers, Emigrants and Families? As the Minister's initial reason for withdrawing this grant was that 2 Italian agencies were receiving grants, until it was pointed out that she was making grants to 2 single parent organisations, and as her second explanation some weeks later centred on the proximity of the NOW Centre rendering unnecessary the service provided by FILEF, will the Minister take note of the letter from the NOW Centre objecting to her reasoning, her lack of knowledge of the NOW Centre's operations and its statement that it would appreciate being consulted before she makes further misleading statements of this nature? In the circumstances, will the Minister restore the FILEF grant, or is there further justification for the hasty action taken in depriving the Italian community of this valuable service? 
I rise to support  Senator Keeffe's  amendment to clause 70.I listened all day yesterday to the debate on this Bill. At some stage I have got to protest that the Government seems determined that in no way will it brook interference with mining interests. If mining interests cut across Aboriginal interests, then it seems that the mining interests must prevail. This Bill safeguards those interests closely. Clause 70 forbids even Northern Territory legislation to interfere with the rights of mining companies. Clause 70 (2) states: 
a person is entitled to enter and remain on the land for any purpose that is necessary for the use or enjoyment of that estate or interest by the owner of the estate or interest; and 
a law of the Northern Territory shall not authorise an entry or remaining on the land of a person if his presence on the land would interfere with the use or enjoyment of that estate or interest by the owner of the estate or interest. 
When that part of the Bill is read in conjunction with a question asked of the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources  (Senator Withers)  by  Senator Keeffe  in the last few weeks I find it most disturbing. It seems to me to give a real picture of what the Government is trying to do with the land rights Bill.  Senator Keeffe  asked: 
Are any Aboriginal reserves in Australia located within prospective mineral areas; if so, have any mineral leases and/or authorities to prospect and/or temporary reserves been granted for areas within these Aboriginal reserves; if so, how many have been granted in the past 5 years. 
These are the areas we are now discussing, the use and enjoyment of which are referred to in clause 70 of the Bill.  Senator Keeffe  went on to ask: 
If the answer to (1) is in the affirmative, where are (a) these mineral leases and/or authorities to prospect and/or temporary reserves; (b) how large is each of them; (c) when were they granted; (d) for how long were they granted; and (e) to whom were they granted. 
In answer to that question the Minister supplied material showing that in Arnhem Land there were 10 groups and companies covering an area of 6 1 87 square miles and 1 9 exploration licences, alhtough only four are nowin existence. The Minister also said: 
There has been only limited intensive exploration of Aboriginal reserves in the Northern Territory and it is not possible to delineate prospective regions. However, some areas of some reserves are known to have significant potential. 
One wonders for how long exploration licences will be out of existence and how long it will be before the licences that were granted are renewed and more licences grantedin those sorts of areas if they have significant potential. We have all heard stories about how people have found extensive mineral deposits in those areas but have not yet found them officially. It makes a farce of Aboriginal land rights if this sort of entry to land can be made without any reference whatsoever to Aboriginal land councils. 
In the Daly River area in the last few weeks a significant lead-zinc mineralisation find has been made by Aquataine, a French company. Four licences are already in existence. They were granted to Reynolds Australian Mines Pty Ltd, which is a foreign company, to Esso, and to the Dampier Mining Co., a subsidiary of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. Other licences are also held in that area. In other areas outside Arnhem Land- good potential areas for uranium and natural gas- h ow long will it be before the 1 8 existing licences are renewed and more are granted? This Bill gives automatic renewal of licences in Groote Eylandt for 21 years with the right to further renewal. I can see no reason to suppose that similar arrangements will not be made for all other areas, again without any reference to Aboriginal land councils. To say that Aboriginal land councils are too remote seems to me to be living in the dark ages. It does not seem to pay due regard to what a land rights Bill is supposed to do. After all, Aborigines may be remote but they would not be granted land rights if they were living in the heart of Melbourne. 
The amendment which the Opposition proposes gives the right of permit of entry to Aboriginal land councils. It became more and more obvious during the debate yesterday that land in or near towns or where towns might be would not be included in land rights. It is becoming more and more obvious that where mining interests hold sway any land, so long as it is land that nobody wants for any purpose whatsoever, will be made available for land rights. If land rights mean anything at all the right at least could be given to the Aboriginal people that Aboriginal land councils may issue permits for entry to Aboriginal reserves. 
I am not prepared to wait until the next lot of legislation is brought forward by this Government. I want to know now what concern this Government feels for children and for children's television in this country. I have not seen any evidence of concern either by this Government or by private industry in this area for children's television. 
-Oh, yes, we will have 2 women on the Commission. Obviously women must be concerned about children, so we have a prerequisite for 2 women, God help this Government if 10 women turn up who are eligible for appointment. It would be in a terrible position. I must say that not all women feel all that much concern for children, and even fathers have some concern for children. But this Government keeps saying: 'Leave it to the Australian Broadcasting Commission'. The Commission can do only what it can do on the money given to it by this Government. So the ABC is already cut and confined. 
An advisory committee was set up by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. It set out 8 principles on which it thought children's television in this country should be based. Those 8 principles were: 
The producer must have demonstrable interest in children. 
Children should be encouraged to take active pan in sports and hobbies through television. 
Programs should be designed for specific age groups. 
Programs should avoid lavish displays of wealth. 
Programs should not suggest that the good life comes from acquiring material things. 
There should be no stereo heroes and non-heroes in children's programs. 
Precocity should not be encouraged. 
Conformity is not to be admired. 
Those were the 8 areas in which the advisory committee advised the Control Board that something should be done about children's television. In the Melbourne  Age  green paper for Friday, 10 December, in the time between 6 a.m. and 7 p.m.- the time when children could reasonably be expected to watch television- these were the sorts of programs that television in Victoria had listed, and I say 'had listed ' because we have not got to 10 December yet: GTV9 had  6Vi  hours of programs that could be called 'designated for children'. That means that we have kindergarten programs, so called family comedies, educational programs put forward by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, and some other little programs designated as 'education for children' programs. 
On GTV9 there appears 6 hours of programs that could be called designated for children, 5 te hours of those programs coming from America and one hour coming from Australia. On HSV7 half an hour is listed in that time for children and that is an American cartoon. The remainder of the time that could reasonably be called hours for children's viewing is taken up by tennis. On ABV2 in relation to programs for children there is one hour and twenty five minutes from the United States, half an hour from Britain and half an hour from Australia. There are 3 te hours of educational television; that is, material put on by the Department of Education in Victoria, and it is repeated in the afternoon. On ATVO there are 3 te hours of programs from the United States of America and one hour from Australia. From them all we have cartoons for an hour at a time; we have family comedies- I am not sure whether honourable senators opposite watch television but  McHale's Navy  and  Gilligan's Island,  both of which must be 4200 years old, are the sorts of programs that go into that family viewing time- we have half an hour of documentary, with a question mark, and a half hour deemed children's educational programs'. Is it any wonder that Australia is third in the world market for American films? 
Many people such as those on the Australian Children's Television Action Committee are worried about the current situation. Many more people should be worried about the current children's television situation because these are the sorts of programs which our children are watching hour after hour, day after day. People such as those on the Australian Children's Television Action Committee are worried because the Federation of Commercial Television Stations has never stuck to the standards which either the commercial stations laid down when they applied for their licence or which the Government since has attempted to lay down for them. All television stations promised at the time they got their licences that at least 70 per cent of their programs would be live and the best that any of them have done was 49 per cent, and that included football replays over and over again. I do not say that because I am a Victorian. I believe that no matter what code of football one watches this goes on  ad infinitum. 
When these stations applied for their licences they were very pious about what they were going to do for the people of Australia in regard to television, what they were going to do for the performers, musicians, actors and writers, and even occasionally for the children and women of Australia. When ATN Sydney applied for its licence it promised that 67 per cent of its programs would be live. In May 1966, 43 per cent was the best it had ever done. TCN Sydney promised that 60 per cent of its programs would be live. By May 1966 it had got to 43.1 per cent. GTV Melbourne promised that up to 65 per cent of its programs would be live. Yet by 1966 it had got to 44.3 per cent. HSV7 which had promised that 72 per cent of its programs would be live had got to 49.8 per cent. So much for the promises they made to writers, artists, actors and musicians in Australia. So much for what they promised the people of Australia in terms of live, real television that reflected their hopes and aspirations. 
When we get to what they promised children in Australia it is a slightly different picture. ATN Sydney for its first year did not mention children's television. Obviously children would be in bed, out of sight and out of mind. However, it did promise that by its third year educational, programs would occupy 1.75 per cent of its viewing time. TCN Sydney for its first year did not mention nor did it promise anything for children. GTV9 in Melbourne had nothing in its first or second years because, after all, one has to work up to these things. However, in its third year there were 30 minutes of children's programs and, because we are all concerned with education just as we are concerned with motherhood, 30 minutes of educational programs in its first and second years and one hour in its third year. God knows what the one hour of educational television may have been. HSV7 promised 3 hours of children's programs in its first year and 4 hours of educational programs but has never got to that point. 
We can say 'Why worry?'. There is a picture on the television screen and children watch television. It is most compulsive viewing. I love television. When I go home I cannot resist turning on the television set and watching whatever is on, although saying to myself how terrible it is; but I cannot resist watching the picture because I love television and films. So do children. To children it is a most compulsive medium. They turn on the television set, there are the pictures and they cannot help but take them in. No wonder the National Association for Better Broadcasting in America said: 
TV has taught our children to kill before they have learnt to read. 
That is where we come back to reality with a thump. Unfortunately we can cite only American figures because there are no Australian figures to cite. We are very much at a loss in this respect and I do not excuse my Government for not having done something about providing those figures. We should all be concerned that we do not know what effect television has on our children, because they are all our children. Figures show that in America a child sees every hour between 5 and 9 violent incidents such as murder, rape, assault, accident or a fight, although the real figures show that the chance of a person being involved in such violence on any day is 14 000 to one. 
We have no figures for Australia but in September 1975 my staff and I took out figures for one week from the  Age  green paper on television. These showed that of the films that were shown during the hours children watched television, there were 57 hours of American films. These covered the spectrum from  Sesame Street,  which I think is a very good program, to  McHale's Navy  and  Gilligan's Island  and films that have been going around since the year dot. Of Australian films that were shown in the hours that children could watch television there were 29 hours- one hundred per cent from the ABCand they included films that are called educational; that is, put on by the education departments. Films that would be called women's programs or would be shown at times when women would watch television comprised 5 hours of viewing time. They came from America and were soap box operas. Current affairs programs, which included the news broadcasts, from 4 television stations covered 22 hours. Films that came from the United States of America and were shown in peak viewing time accounted for 168 hours in one week. Sport covered 27 hours and religion, I am sad to say, covered 2 hours. So while I say I can use only figures from America, in Australia we have to admit that the films shown here in the main come from America. Because of the amount of films children watch in America, and I submit in Australia too because I do not think our children watch any less television than do American children, nor on the figures I have been given do they watch any less American television than do American children, a child is involved with violence 25 times a day, even though the American figures show that the chance of a person being involved with violence is only 14 000 to 1. The National Association for Better Broadcasting in America has said: 
TV has warped the social attitudes of our entire society by saturating entertainment with sadistic violence. 
In the 9 years a child grows between the ages of five and fourteen years an American child has seen the violent death of 13 000 human beings. That should be a matter of great concern to Australians and it should be the subject of some urgent study. 
I welcome greatly the report this week that the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts is going to concern itself with the part played by television in children's lives and education. It is obviously a matter of great importance. We should take note of the fact that the Journal of the American Medical Association stated: 
In 1 46 articles in behavioural science journals representing SO studies of 10 000 children, all showed that violent viewing has produced increased aggressive behaviour. 
As a parent who lets her children watch television, who knows her children enjoy television, who knows her children and she herself learn from television, I am concerned that this great power for learning should be treated in a proper way so that our children are not at a disadvantage in this field. 
In America at the moment an 18-year-old has watched 15 000 hours of television but has spent only 1 1 000 hours in school, and I suspect that the figures are very much the same for Australia. Those figures are not necessarily bad but they are bad if the television our children see is setting them on the wrong path and is giving them the wrong incentives. That is what concerns me. Television is a great power for good. It is a great medium from which to learn, and I think we underestimate the intelligence and interest of our children. I have watched my children and I know that although the television screen mesmerises them, the programs they really enjoy are the programs that tease their imaginations, their powers to learn, their powers to investigate. Television in Australia is not doing enough of that. 
I am concerned at the attitude of the commercial stations. There is no indication that they care two hoots about our children or about the power that television has over those children. For instance, commercial stations are not supposed to show trailers of adult films in children s viewing times, but they do it over and over again because I have seen them. There is a power to fine commercial stations who do that, but nobody has ever been fined. There is no reason to believe that under the system of self-regulation this Government is bringing in the television stations will behave any better. Up to this point of time they have shown that they have no standards and there is no reason to believe that they are going to acquire those standards overnight. Where will those standards come from? There is no material to show that the commercial stations care at all. The material they have put out has shown that they are concerned about the profits that might be made from advertisements on ABV2 but there has been no material from any of the commercial stations or commercial organisations which shows that they are concerned in any way at all about children or children's television. Children are very persuasive of their parents in buying goods, and when one watches the programs between 3.30 p.m. and 6.30 p.m. and sees the advertisements that go on and the persuasion directed to a 12-year-old, who keeps insisting that her life will be blighted if she does not have a particular form of breakfast food, then one knows why the commercial stations are more concerned with advertisements shown during the times children watch than with the sort of material they put on. There is some glorious mind-expanding material which could go on for children in what is really a very great medium. 
The Opposition believes that this is hasty legislation. We believe that the fullest opportunity should be given for real people to say how they feel this beautiful medium can be used. The fullest opportunity should be given for public debate, and yet I watched a program this week in which the relevant Minister was a participant and he kept insisting that the fullest possible public debate could be given, that a new body was being set up on 1 January to assist this public debate, but that new legislation would come down in February. Let us be realistic. We all know that in Australia January is the month that we all take off. I am happy to say that, because I think it is a great thing. We sit in the sun, we read the paper, we talk to our kids, we take a holiday. Nobody in Australia works in January, and I hope they never do. If we are going to have new legislation in February there will not have been an opportunity for real public debate on this issue. It is an area that affects our children and it affects our future, and it should have the fullest public debate. If we have to rush this legislation through now and rush through new legislation in February, then I question whether this Government is genuine when it says that it believes there should be the fullest possible public debate or that the Bills cover what our society needs by way of electronic media. 
I am tempted to comment again on the two women who may be members of the Commission. May I say in passing that I think it is patronising nonsense, and I wonder what this Government will do if it finds that 8 women are eligible to sit on that Commission. It will have to bring through legislation providing for 2 men to sit on the Commission. I live for the day! In closing, may I say that I should like to see this Government show real concern for the proper use of radio and television and proper responsibility for spending the nation's income in this area. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. The Minister may be aware that at the present time schools are charged $3 a month or part thereof by the Post Office to store school mail during summer vacations. It is claimed by the Post Office that schools are being treated as business firms, but business firms are charged only $1.50 for a similar service. As schools never have sufficient money for their needs and this is an additional burden and must represent a small amount of revenue to the authority, will the Minister use his influence and suggest that the charge be withdrawn? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. By way of preface, may I remind the Minister that the final recommendation of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry's first report was that no decision be taken in relation to the mining and milling of uranium until a reasonable time had elapsed and there had been an opportunity for the usual democratic processes to function. This was, the 
Inquiry understood, the policy of the Act under which the Inquiry was instituted. Simply, it meant ample time for public consideration of the report and for debate on it. Will the Minister inform the Senate of the steps his Government has taken to reach as many people in the community as possible with the facts on all aspects of the mining, milling and use of uranium? 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, 1 present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Modernisation of H.M.A. Naval Dockyard (Stage 2) at Williamstown, Victoria. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. The Minister would be aware that last year the Department of Aboriginal Affairs funded a special health project for Aborigines in Victoria through that State's Department of Health. Funding was made available during March 1976. Can the Minister advise what was the total amount made available and what expenditure it was to cover? Is it true that although 14 Aboriginal people were employed as aides at that time there has been 12 months later no program drawn up for these aides and they have no work to do? Who chose the aides and what qualifications do they have? Has the Department of Aboriginal Affairs been assured that the Aboriginal health services in particular and the Aboriginal people in general will be consulted on the program? Is it true that the amount involved covered the salaries for 14 aides at a salary of $8,000 per annum plus travelling expenses plus $2,798 for departmental expenses while the Aboriginal health services received only $2,589 to cover both medical and dental services for 12 months? Why was the State Health Department funded for this work rather than the Aboriginal health services? 
-I rise to support the Bill because it gives recognition to what one can call the forgotten women of Australia, those in the Women's Auxiliary Services who volunteered to defend Australia in the Second World War. In this instance they are the WAAAFs. These women are now approaching the age when they want to make provision for old age and this Bill goes some way to giving them some peace of mind about their lives in the next few years. It provides for women who are in necessitous circumstances. There are in the community women who served in the WAAAFs and want assistance to help themselves and to buy a home. Under this Bill men and women, comrades in war, are equal in receiving help when they are in necessitous circumstances. Widows and children receive help when they are in necessitous circumstances. However, although the same men and women, widows and children and women who are currently in the Services receive assistance by way of loans to buy homes, the women who served in wartime auxiliary Services do not. 
Women in the Services now serve beside the men. Women in time of war went even further. In 1944 two-thirds of the defence forces serving in Australia were women. In wartime the musterings, working hours, duties, leave benefits, courses, living conditions and food were the same for men and for women. In wartime the uniform, apart from very obvious parts, was the same. The motif that these women wore on their wartime caps was the RAAF motif. If they were ill they were hospitalised in RAAF hospitals or in repatriation hospitals in exactly the way the men were. They volunteered for service in the women's Services. They volunteered for service within the Commonwealth and Territories. They were not conscripted, they volunteered. So it was not their choice where they were sent. In fact, in December 1942 a contingent of WAAAFs was issued with full tropical gear and got as far as Townsville on their way to New Guinea when their plane was cancelled. They had no say in where they served. 
The women worked hard to gain skills that were strange to them. They did very well in those areas to which they applied themselves. Their male comrades will say that the Services could not have operated the way they did without the unselfish work that these women put into their wartime jobs. This Bill makes provision for exWAAAFs in necessitous circumstances. In time of war, when WAAAFs died through illness or accident their names were recorded on the honour roll in Canberra. However, exWAAAFs who lived get very little honour. If governments acknowledge that women in the Services are now eligible for equal pay, equal opportunity, equal conditions and equal repatriation conditions, including home loans; if ex-servicewomen are eligible for repatriation benefits, for equal assistance when in dire or necessitous circumstances; if ex-servicewomen now are eligible for assistance with home loans; if the widows of ex-servicemen and, one would hope, the widowers of exservicewomen and Service personnel are entitled to repatriation benefits, including home loans, why discriminate against a handful of exservicewomen who seek assistance, not charity, to provide for their old age? 
They are asking for loans to help them to buy homes in which they can see out their lives. They are not asking for grants or for Government to give them houses. They want assistance in buying houses- the sort of assistance their male comrades have been able to call on since the end of the last war. There were 40 000 Australia servicewomen during the last war. There are at the moment 280 financial members of the exWAAAFs organisation in Victoria. Those women estimate that 12 to IS of their comrades require a loan and one would expect the same sort of proportion to apply in all other States. So we are not talking about a tremendous number of people or a tremendous amount of money. We are not talking about a grant, we are talking about a loan. There has been no loss in the defence service homes section of the repatriation provisions. It has been very successful and there is no reason to believe that these women would be any less successful than the men and would fall behind in their commitments when their male comrades have not. 
It is said in some areas that this will open the floodgates and that all sorts of people will then claim to be eligible. Maybe so. Maybe some of those people will have cases. However, I am not talking about all sorts of people. I am talking about the women who worked in hard circumstances without complaint in Australia to enable men to go overseas to fight in that wretched war. Unless these women had volunteered and left their homes and loved ones there would have been many fewer men able to go overseas. Those civilians in wartime who, it is feared, will flood through the gates and claim these benefits were situated in places to which they freely agreed to go. The WAAAFs were posted, as were the men in the RAAF, and were told where to go. Civilians in wartime were well paid for the dangerous jobs they took on. Nobody can say that the Women's Auxiliary Services were well paid. So I ask the Government, even though it has presented this Bill which is very good and extends the benefits as they should be extended to the women who served in the Air Force during the war, to remember more than the WAAAFs in necessitous circumstances. I ask it to show that a country grateful in wartime, very good with the purple prose when the war was on, has the grace to show gratitude in peacetime, late though it may be, and provide the means for people who are truly great citizens to finish their lives in dignity. 
The funds for the purposes of the Act originated in prize money from the sale of ships captured in war. These women deserve their share of the spoils but they prefer the peace of mind that they gain from looking after themselves in the later years of their lives. I ask the Government to right the injustice that has existed for so long. These women have not had that right before. 
-As the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs would be aware, the Department of Aboriginal Affairs has funded the State Housing Commission in Victoria to be responsible for Aboriginal housing in that State. Recently an elderly Aboriginal woman of some standing in her community was evicted from her State Housing Commission controlled home without any permanent, alternative accommodation being made available. As the Federal Government is responsible in this area, what steps is it taking to provide proper, permanent accommodation for this elderly lady? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. The Mayor of the Victorian city of Shepparton is reported as saying that the Shepparton City Council has been trying since before Christmas to get the Commonwealth Employment Service to supply a breakdown of the unemployment figures for the city but to date has received nothing. Is it Government practice to withhold this information? What is the justification for this practice? If that is not so, why has the material not been made available? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for 
Business and Consumer Affairs. There have been constant reports of farmers in the Shepparton area of Victoria being induced to spend very large amounts of money on farm machinery on the promise by the salesmen of interstate contracts for the farmer for his product. Can the Minister tell me what the Government will do to investigate these matters and, if necessary, to pursue charges of fraud or conspiracy or misrepresentation against the salesmen concerned and to obtain compensation for the victims? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I understand that  Mr David  Anderson has resigned from the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee as from 28 February. Can the Minister advise when the byelection will be held to fill the vacancy? As the Minister himself has pointed out that useful submissions have been made by the NACC on matters of education, health and welfare, employment, language, customs and land rights, can we be advised when it is planned to hold the next meeting of the NACC? It is almost 12 months since the last meeting was held. When can we expect a report from the NACC on matters which concern it? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. On 23 February I asked a question regarding the eviction of an Aboriginal woman from her Victorian Housing Commission home in Morwell and asked what the Minister intended to do about future accommodation for her. The Minister has since advised me that the woman was immediately provided with alternative accommodation at the Lionel Rose Centre in Morwell on an indefinite basis. This Centre is designed to provide temporary accommodation for young workers and transient people. As this woman had kept her house well, I ask again: 
What steps does the Minister intend to take to provide this lady with the permanent accommodation that will give her the proper privacy, comfort and permanency to which she is entitled? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the threat of organised demonstrations against the Australian Embassy in Jakarta made by the Indonesian Foreign Minister,  Mr Malik,  does the Minister consider that advice regarding risk should be given to Australian citizens now travelling in Indonesia or to those intending to travel to Indonesia? What steps can the Government take to protect Australian personnel and records at the Embassy? 
I say to  Senator Chaney  that it is almost a pleasure to follow such an adult speech. In rising, I pay my respects to  Senator Lewis.  The calm with which he delivered his speech reminded me of my first task in the Senate, which was to move for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply. I did not even know what the Address-in-Reply was. I was quite sure that if I said the wrong thing I would bring the entire Parliament tumbling down around my ears. I think the honourable senator made his speech with a great deal more aplomb than I made mine. I am attracted to what  Senator Chaney  said in a debate the other evening about our participating in open debate and combating each other's arguments. Some of the arguments and some of the points that have been put forward in this debate occasion my wanting to have my say. 

 Senator Walters took us back to the beginnings of benevolent societies and the need for voluntary charities. She called them the conscience of the community and commended the way that the Government was now working with voluntary agencies in assisting the unfortunate in the community. I am afraid that I cannot see any gain to the community in having increasing unemployment and attendant miseries while dispensing charity relief to the poor, to the destitute and to the aged. People do not bring about their own unemployment and they do not bring about the miseries that go with it. As far as I am concerned, it is the responsibility of the Government, not of voluntary agencies saving their souls, to see that something is done to assist people in those sorts of circumstances. I do not think that this Government is doing enough to assist people in those sorts of circumstances and I certainly think that while it does nothing about the unemployment situation it is just putting people into worse misery. I will go so far as to say that I believe that this Government does not really care about the rate of unemployment and that it believes that while there is a large pool of unemployment people will work longer hours for less pay and will shut up about it. I think that is why we have growing unemployment. I think it ill becomes the honourable senator to say that voluntary charities should deal with people who fall by the wayside in these circumstances. 
As  Senator Walters  drew her speech to a conclusion she said that people could draw their own conclusion as to which party is more interested in supporting the needy. This is where the great difference between the Government and the Opposition lies. We are not interested in supporting the needy; we are interested in there being no needy.  Senator Walters  went on to extol the virtues of putting something away for a rainy day rather than spending for pleasure. She reminded us of the days when people from their first pay packets put something away. They did not put it away in order to go on an overseas cruise or a trip. They put it away to provide for their family. I feel that this comes ill from an honourable senator whose Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is exhorting the population to go out and spend. In this consumer society he says: 'Go out and spend; have confidence'. How one can go out and spend on the rates of pay that most of us get and still put away for a rainy day is beyond me. 

 Senator Walters again got on to the subject of family allowances and the question of putting money into the hands of women. In fact this Government even had the Queen saying: 
The new family allowance scheme places in every mother's hand an allowance to spend as she thinks is best for the welfare of her family. 
That only goes to show that whoever wrote that speech has not the faintest idea of how the majority of families operate. If a family does not have enough money to go around, it does not matter in whose hands the money is; the family cannot buy the goods and services it needs and the family cannot be looked after properly. Anyone who believes in family life believes that 2 people work as a team. It does not matter how the money comes in. The team dispenses the money in the best way possible. All this Government did was take money out of the men's pay packets and put that money in their wives' hands. That would be of no use to anybody if the husband was of the opinion that it was his money and he was going to keep it. All he would do is give his wife less housekeeping money. Even more to the point, it is a lie to say that people have benefited from the new scheme. Let us look at some figures. I know that figures can be manipulated and lied about. Under the previous Government the husband of a family with 2 children received $8.70 tax rebate and $1.50 child endowment, which adds up to $10.20 a week. Under this Government's scheme such a family receives no tax rebate and receives a family allowance of $8.50 which, from what I learned when I went to school even though I did not learn new mathematics, is less than $10.20 a week. A family with 4 children under the previous Government received $17.40 tax rebate and $5.75 child endowment, which adds up to $23.15 a week. Under the new scheme of family allowances the family gets $20.50 a week which is less. Let us have less of this nonsense about having finally done something for women. It was said at one stage that it was women's finest hour. All the Government has really done is divide a real family into two. 

 Senator Kilgariff went to some lengths to point out that he was disturbed about Australia because the divorce figures were going up at what he said was an astounding rate. He forgot to realise that as the Family Law Act came in there was bound to be a backlog of divorces to handle. So, of course the figures at the moment are up.  Senator Kilgariff  has to realise that in the present economic climate, with increasing unemployment and continuing unemployment, there will be more broken homes because of the pressures that are put on people. I refer not only to the pressures that are put on mothers and fathers but also to the pressures that are put on children. Where young people cannot get work fathers and mothers tend to agree with newspapers in some ways and call their children bludgers and say that they are not trying very hard, that they should be out working and that they are not proper citizens because they are not working an 8-hour day. That sort of pressure breaks up homes because the mother and father fight over what the child is doing or should be doing. If  Senator Kilgariff  is really concerned about the divorce figures he had better look at some of the causes of divorce and see what his Government is prepared to do about them. 
Senators Kilgariff and Tehan talked of the woman's place being in the home and especially the woman's place in the home as a wife and mother in times of unemployment. But they are not very realistic and they do not look on women as human beings. They do not look at the real situation. Women make up 39.3 per cent of the Australian work force. Some 40 per cent of Australian women are in paid employment. In May 1976, 6 per cent of the female labour force, as against 3.9 per cent of the male labour force, was registered as unemployed. More women were registered as unemployed than men, even though women are discouraged from registering by the employment offices and by their own life style. They have never thought of themselves as the person who kept the home going, as the wage earner. It is outside their life style to go along and register, because that is not the way they have got jobs in the past. It is outside their life style to register, because sometimes they work part time. It is outside their life style to register, because they do not get unemployment benefits even though the family depends very much on the money they bring in. 
Most of the women in this community who work need to work. Very few women go to work to express themselves. Women go out to work because they need the money. The Henderson report showed that there were 131 700 fatherless families in Australia- families where the woman brings in the money. Some 97.4 per cent of single parents in the labour force responsible for children under 12 years of age are women. Those women must go out to work to keep their children in a reasonable sort of life style. In the 1975 survey of inner city women, taken for the purposes of the Henderson report, women said that they worked for money for essentials like food and shelter and rent and wages to get to work. They do not work for wall to wall carpet and a second refrigerator and a second car, although there are women going to work for those things. Those things may not be essential, but this consumer society we live in impresses upon people that they must have these things, that they must have new carpet every 2 years and live in a house with 2 bathrooms. 
Women are as susceptible to that sort of pressure as anybody else, and they are under pressure to go out to work to provide those things for their families. There are women in parts of Melbourne, and I can speak only of Melbourne, who go out to work because they and their husbands are paying between $90 and $150 a week off the mortgage on the house they live in. Do not tell me that those people are not under pressure and do not need to work. Those women are terrified that if they lose their jobs, if they become ill or if the children become ill and they have to stay at home, they will lose all that they have worked for. Those women are not out in the work force because they want to express themselves, because they do not like being wives and mothers. They are out in the work force because they know that all their lives they will be doing 2 jobs, one as wives and mothers and the other earning money. Unless the Government takes notice of that fact, it is going to spend a lot more money on social services and on health and medical services to cope with the problems that will come out of it. Of course, women get the worst paid jobs. For so many women some money is better than no money at all, some job is better than no job at all. It is interesting to note that while 36.2 per cent of students enrolled for degree courses are women, only 1 1.6 per cent of administrative, executive and managerial positions in the work force are held by women. 

 Senator Kilgariff said that for the benefit of defence and the future of Australia we should be increasing rapidly because Australia can support a much larger population. For  Senator Kilgariff's  benefit, may I say that the women of Australia are not going to be used as brood mares to supply large numbers of people to fill up the holes in this country because we might be invaded by the yellow peril. The day has long gone when women were prepared to have sons to send off as cannon fodder. The honourable senator went on to say that the abortion rate is very hard to measure and that abortions cost Australia hundreds of thousands of its future youth. Again may I say that it is a woman's decision whether or not she has an abortion, and I will be damned if the women of Australia are going to put themselves and their families at risk to provide this vast number of Australians who are going to people this country, including the far north. For  Senator Kilgariff's  benefit, and for the benefit of  Senator Harradine,  may I say that no woman has an abortion lightly, but I do not need  Senator Kilgariff  or  Senator Harradine  to keep my conscience about whether or not I will have an abortion. 

 Senator Harradine said that he knows how a woman feels when she is unwillingly pregnant after wanted or unwanted intercourse.  Senator Harradine  does not know how a woman feels in that situation, nor does he know the misery she feels when she finds herself pregnant and has to cope with the shame, the poverty, the loneliness, the inability to cope with the child or children that she may bear. She knows the decision she has to make about whether or not a child will be born. She is the one who must make the decision. She does not need senators in this place telling her that they will make the decision for her, nor does she need parliaments to make the decision for her. I have 6 children. I would not have an abortion, but that is my decision. I do not need to have anybody else keeping my conscience for me and telling me what I will do, and I do not believe that the women of Australia need to have that decision made for them. They will make the decision. They are adults and they will live with the decision. When they make a decision to have a child, it is up to people like  Senator Harradine,  rather than going on witch hunts, to make sure that they have the support services necessary to keep those children, to make sure that those children are brought up in exactly the same position as children who come from the best homes and the best families in this country. More work should go into that aspect, and it would be more productive. It is people like  Senator Harradine,  and in some ways  Senator Kilgariff,  who allow rogues to come in and make abortion a racket, a racket which makes money out of other people's misery. 
Although Senators Kilgariff and Harradine were busy complaining about abortion lessening the number of people we have in this country to protect us, I was amazed that they and  Senator Walters  did not raise the matter of family planning centres. We had petition after petition in this place asking the Government to fund family planning centres, to close the stable door before the horse got out, if that is a suitable metaphor, which I doubt. But we could not get through to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  There was no money for family planning centres. Finally, some money was made available. Victoria put in some money and now has such a centre. 
If I may read some of the relevant figures, the centre opened on 6 December 1976 and up to 27 February 1977 it had given contraceptive advice to 230 people and pregnancy counselling to 62 people, leaflets were taken by 120 people, family planning appointments were made for 181 people, adolescent counselling was given to 77 people and parent counselling was given to 43 people. Those are only some of the figures and they cover only a short time. I suppose that the centre has not really got out into the community yet and let people know that it is there. But in a short time that number of people have gone through the centre, and that is much more productive. It is much better to stop people having unwanted babies than it is to put them through the misery of deciding whether or not they will have an abortion. May I just say to these honourable senators who are so concerned that I hope they are just as concerned about their children's children when the use of uranium comes up for debate in this chamber. 
This Government has done very little about women's health centres. The Liberal Government in Victoria has done little about women's health centres. When the former Government funded them, the Liberal Government in Victoria stopped the funding going through. These centres are places where women can go with confidence to find out how they work, how they should be treated, what is wrong with them, without being embarrassed, without being stood over, and with other women to assist them with their problems. We wondered why the money could not get through in Victoria. In an answer to a question in the Legislative Assembly we found out why. One of the reasons why the funds had not been passed on was that the Women's Health Collective had a special condition, again stipulated by the Hospitals and Health Services Commission, that the centre should relocate if there was sufficient medical opposition. Again, the hopes and desires of women were as nothing against the medical profession. If money was going to be made out of women's ill health then the medical profession was going to make the money. I think it is up to this Government to remember that a vast number of women who have no other place at which they can receive help want these women's health centres, and it should cut through such nonsense. If the citizens of Australia want health centres in certain places, why should the doctors of this country be able to say: 'No go'? 

 Senator Walters spoke about women's refuges with some pride that this Government had assisted them. Women's refuges, such as they are, exist with little money, little hope of future money, and a great deal of lack of confidence about what their future will be. I for one, and I suspect other honourable senators, have received pathetic letters from some of these centres pointing out that they have no ability to protect themselves, that husbands break in, break down doors and beat up their wives. Such people get little assistance from the police and are unable to look after themselves and prevent those things happening. With the feeling that the Government does not really believe in them and is not going to fund them, that they will not be there long, the centres do not have a great deal of confidence in going to the community and asking for assistance. 
In the speech the Queen read for the Government she said: 
At the heart of my Government's policies lie a commitment and a concern: commitment to increasing the freedom, opportunity and equality of the Australian people; and concern with enhancing people's ability to make their own choices and live their own lives in their own way. 
If one is talking about freedom one has to consider Ministers who say that those in the work force have no right to change their jobs. If the Government is talking about opportunity it should tell that to the youngsters who have been to 47 different places of employment and still have no job. It should tell it to the women who are living in terror of the night they wake up and find that the kiddy has a fever, that they cannot go to work and that they will lose their jobs. If it is talking about equality it should tell that to the migrant women in this community who have so many distressing things happening to them with no relief and who cannot, in so many cases, even speak the language. They are completely isolated. If the Government is talking about the ability to make our own choices, will we have the choice to work longer hours for less pay while profits soar to unprecedented levels or will the ordinary people of Australia really be able to make their own choice as to how and where they shall live? If the Government really believes that people should be allowed to live their own lives in their own way does it believe that a man whose only means of making a livelihood lies in the skill he has in his 2 hands should be allowed to go out and sell that skill for the greatest rate he can obtain? Does the Government really believe in the right to proper education or does it believe that people need just enough training to turn them into the sort of fodder from which other people's profits can be made? Does this Government really believe that ordinary people are entitled to good health or are they only entitled to good health if they go into debt for the rest of their lives? Does this Government really believe that children have the right to grow up with the same opportunity to love, to a good home, to education and to good health no matter who their parents are or in what circumstances they were born and that all children are bom equal? All I can say to the members of this Government is that if they truly believe in all that purple prose that they used when they said how they felt about the monarchy, I hope they will remember that the meanest of the Queen's subjects is entitled to be treated like a human being and not like a chattel. 
Can the Minister for Education advise what bodies have received grants for adult education under the States Grants (Technical and Further Education Assistance) Act? What amounts have they received? What are the nature of the projects? What funds are still available for such projects during this financial year? 
I rise to support the motion because of the appalling conditions imposed on Aboriginal people in Victoria. In 1971 the census showed that there were 6371 Aboriginal people in Victoria as against 31 932 in Queensland. The Aboriginals in Victoria now estimate that they have about 10 000 people in that State. That still is a small number of people when compared with a State like Queensland which now has over 40 000 Aboriginal citizens. Because there is only a small number in Victoria one would think that the problems there would have been solved but let us look at the expertise and lack of supervision by this Federal Government. 
The Department of Aboriginal Affairs handed money to the Victorian Housing Commission for it to administer Aboriginal housing. The Aboriginal section is run by 4 white men. No Aboriginals are employed. Their expertise in this field is such that money is wasted week after week. I would like to cite 2 instances. At 4 Moramy Street, Bairnsdale, the Housing Commission in 1975 bought a house for $19,000 for Aboriginal people and then spent $16,000 making it habitable. It bought a house at 12 Moramy Street, Bairnsdale, for $27,000 and then took out the floor, the bath, the stove and some of the internal walls at a cost of about $8,000 and made the house all electric despite the plea by the Aboriginal family to leave a slow combustion stove in it. It pulled out that stove and made the house all electric because it knew better. It had no idea of the capacity of the people who were going to go into the houses. It had no idea of the needs. It never occurred to it that so many of the people going into these houses are unemployed or are on sickness benefits or on pensions. In other words, these people are on very low incomes. The authorities put heat banks into many of the 
Aboriginal houses and the bills that the tenants are now receiving range from $105 to $115 and $120 per quarter. These bills have to be paid by people who are pensioners. In one instance the lady concerned decided that she could not possibly afford this sort of heating and she turned off the bank. Her bill had been $80 and then it went down to $29. So much for their expertise. 
When the former Aboriginal homes were transferred to the Federal Department and so to the Housing Commission in December 1974, $ 1 50,000 was handed over for maintenance. In Bairnsdale, for instance, 4 houses are untouched, as far as maintenance is concerned- this is 3 years later- but car ports have been built for most of the houses. Many of these people do not have a car. Many of them do not have a driver's licence. But their houses now have car ports whilst no meaningful maintenance has been done on the houses. The houses which are being bought for Aboriginal families are not big enough. In many areas bungalows are being built in the back yards to cope with the extra children. But these people do not like having their families divided up. Who would? Money could have been spent on building houses big enough for the families instead of spending it on the houses that were built. 
At Cummeragunja on the Murray River, not far from Shepparton, I saw a house which was literally sitting in a sea of sewage. The septic tank had broken down and it had been like that for months. Complaint after complaint has been made but nothing has been done about the matter. The residue from 5 neighbouring houses drains into the one septic tank and it has drained about 100 yards away from the house. It comes out of the pipe and lies on top of the ground. The ground is saturated. In the height of summer mosquitoes breed there, as do flies, as honourable senators can well imagine. The Senate will not be surprised to know that the local doctor says that the children and adults suffer from rather irritating rashes as a result of the constant mosquito and fly bites. The water supply at Cummeragunja is heavily chlorinated because it is taken from the river downstream from the nearby town of Barmah. The children at Cum.meragunja are taken by bus to a school which is miles away. They leave home at 8 o'clock in the morning and do not return until 5 o'clock that night. There is a school less than a mile away from their homes. Naturally, their parents want them to go to that school. The Department sends them to the other school. It is not surprising that the children are not keen on school and that they leave as early as possible. 
Aboriginal housing societies in Victoria are unfunded. They receive administrative grants only. This means that soon the story will be that the societies are doing nothing useful and, therefore, there is no point in keeping them going. So they too will vanish. It is relevant that in Victoria there is a housing society, namely, the Narrogal Co-operative Housing Society offering loans to Aboriginals all over Victoria. They go there and take out a loan but they are told that they must take the balance between the cost of the house they want to buy and the amount of the loan which they receive from the Co-operative Housing Society from the Aboriginal Loans Commission as a loan. If they cannot front up with sufficient money to cover the balance they are told that they must take all the money, apart from a 5 per cent equity, from the Aboriginal Loans Commission. Why should this be? How are they different from anybody else who wants to buy a house? They do not know and nobody will tell them. Many Aborigines have been kept hanging for weeks paying high rents and high interest while awaiting the finalisation of their loan. 
There are no houses at all for many people. Many have been waiting two, three, five or seven years for a house to be built. Huts built of canvas and galvanised iron on the river banks are what Aborigines live in in many places. There is no sewerage, no power and the water comes from the river, or three or four families are jammed into a small house which was built for one small family. Down at Morwell in Victoria an old lady was put out of her house because 5 neighbours took up a petition. There was a court order and she was ejected. No other house was provided for her. She lives in the Lionel Rose Hostel at the moment. The hostel was built for young workers and transient workers. It is not suitable for constant living. It is not suitable for an old lady. It is not suitable when we think of the privacy and comfort to which somebody in the later years of her life is entitled. There are very few hostels for transients in Victoria. In the fruit picking areas there is no housing, or the worst of the pickers' houses are left for them. No Aborigines are allowed in caravan parks in many places so they move in with relations, as we would do. But then the relations are ejected from their houses because of overcrowding and because their resources are stretched to the limit. Aborigines cannot get rooms at boarding  houses,  hotels or motels. 
If the honourable senators doubt that, I draw their attention to a letter which appeared in the Swan Hill  Guardian  of 1 8 March 1 977. A man took his wife and sister to a hotel for a counter tea. They were stopped at the door by an employee of the hotel and asked to leave. The man asked why. He was told that there had been some trouble some weeks previously in the lounge with 'some of your people'. These people went to another hotel for tea and then they went back to 'black corner' in the first hotel for a drink. It does not take much imagination to work out that that is the only place in which they are allowed to drink. Later in the night they thought they might attend a disco which was going on in another part of the hotel. They were stopped at the door by another employee and told to get out. The next day this man, who is a teachers' aide at one of the schools in the town, went to see the manager. He realised when he met the manager that the manager was the first employee he had seen in the hotel. He asked the manager how long the ban would be in force. The answer was: I do not know. We might relax it soon.' When pressed the manager agreed that it was not fair but said: 'You all look the same. Do not get me wrong, I am not prejudiced'. It might be suggested that Aborigines could get justice from the courts. Recently a magistrate in Mildura told Aboriginal people assembled in the court after a hearing: 'If you do not carry out supervision of these people as suggested and carry out my orders, I will be prejudiced for the rest of my life. And I have 25 years to serve on the bench. ' 
We talk about unemployment. Unemployment for Aborigines is off the planet; it is not just high. A woman who does not look very coloured was working picking pears. She was told the property needed 12 pickers next day. She told this to 3 men that evening. They went out the next day but they were told that no pickers were required. Their skin colour is very brown. An article in the  Herald  recently stated in reference to an Aboriginal: 
He left high school as the top in his class. 'I was really keen to get a job as a bank teller. But what really cut me up was the fact that the guy who came tenth in my class got the job. 
We all know why. The Aboriginal Health Service in Victoria maintains that 80 per cent of Aboriginal children have hearing difficulties. Other respiratory tract infections occur in childhood. They are untreated and so the conditions continue for life. The Health Service maintains that all Victorian Aboriginal children suffer from malnutrition, vitamin deficiency, skin conditions and lack of resistance. If we could stand up and say that about the white community anywhere in Australia, all hell would break loose. Every effort would be made to remedy the situation then and there. David Anderson, a delegate to the 
National Aboriginal Consultative Committee, resigned some weeks ago. No election has been held in Victoria to fill the vacancy. 
Nobody will give the Aboriginal people information. They do not know what the rent from Aboriginal housing over all the years has been applied to. They do not know how much money is available for houses. They are bamboozled over rents. They are told they owe money which they are sure they have paid. They are refused evidence and information on the matter. They do not know how much of the funds of the Aboriginal Loans Commission have been spent in Victoria or on what those funds have been spent. They are treated like idiot children. They are told that they are prevented from wasting money. How could they possibly waste more money than we have wasted in this area? How could they make more mistakes than we have made in this area? It is not just the amount of money which is spent. We do not need more research or more inquiries. We need some action to settle the problems. Why should Aborigines be treated differently? They are not ethnics. They are not merely deprived. They and their ancestors have been here for 70 000 years. The Senate Select Committee on Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders in its report stated: 
. we still must express our conviction that if we are ever able to make atonement to the remnant of this people, it will require no slight attention, and no ordinary sacrifices on our part to compensate the evil association which we have inflicted; but even hopelessness of making reparation for what is past would not in any way lessen our obligation to stop, as far as in us lies, the continuance of iniquity. 
That was not said in 1977; that was said in 1 837 in a report of the House of Commons Select Committee on Aborigines (British Settlements). As Victorian Aborigines say: 'Being black means saying you are sorry'. This Federal Government has done nothing to rectify this shameful situation. 
-I address a question to the Minister for Social Security. The particular circumstances that gave Wonthaggi in Victoria a higher proportion of elderly people than most country towns and made it the centre of that part of Gippsland would be known to the Minister. Great concern is being shown by all people in the area for the welfare of this important section of the community. This is highlighted by what the regional geriatrician,  Dr Laxton,  called a glaring shortage of hostel accommodation, and should be given careful consideration. Will the Minister spare the time to meet a deputation from the area on this matter? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Some weeks ago I asked the Minister what steps the Government had taken to put into effect the recommendation of the Ranger uranium environmental inquiry that there be broad public discussion of the matters raised. The reply was that, apart from having made the report available to Government bookshops, the Government would be interested in any suggestions. In view of the fact that, as when I checked on Tuesday of this week, the Government's bookshop in Melbourne was out of stock of the report, as there is only one Government bookshop in Victoria, as it is reported to me that many public libraries and libraries such as the Baillieu Library in Melbourne have no copies of the report and as its costs $4.50 a copy, will the Minister be amenable to asking Commissioner Fox to suggest groupings of people to prepare 'pro' and ami' cases on uranium mining and have that material circulated with the referendum proposals? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. As she would know, capitation grant funds were made available to various community projects in Victoria through the Outer Eastern Regional Council for Social Development. Due to savings effected in current projects, approximately $14,000 has become available to the Council which believes that it should be able to reallocate those funds to other projects. As these funds appeared in the 1976-77 Budget as a line entry, Grants to Regional Councils for Social Development, the Regional Council believes that the funds are the responsibility of those councils and that it is due to their careful management that funds are now available and can be spent before 30 June 1977. The Minister at the Swinburne College of Technology on 1 1 March in answer to a specific question stated that she saw no reason why reallocation of funds not fully used by existing projects should not take place provided they could be expended this financial year. Therefore, why has the Minister's Department demanded that these funds be returned to the Department? Is this happening all over Australia? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: In line with the Government's policy on a wages and prices freeze for 3 months, has the Government suspended the Ludeke inquiry into medical fees? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it true that, of the 47 Victorian applications for assistance in the May vacation holiday care programs, only 19 were funded and then in most cases were funded only as to a proportion of the amount sought? Is it true, despite the Minister's emphasis on 'care' in these programs, that because those receiving funding received advice, at least in the case of Victoria, only one week before the beginning of the vacation, and because of the lack of funding and reduced funding, most of those planned programs have been reduced in size and have become at best minding operations? Is it true that hundreds of children around Australia will now be left to their own devices throughout the fortnight's break? What were the criteria on which funding was made available? Is it true that the applications for funding were returned to the Minister by the Office of Child Care on 25 March and therefore lay on her table for 34 days before the Minister made the announcements? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. In answer to a question I asked earlier in the week on holiday care programs for children, the Minister advised that the main criterion for funding was that the 
Minister looks first to those organisations which have been funded before. Can the Minister now advise me what criteria were applied in funding the City of Frankston and the City of Hawksburn primary schools in Victoria as they had not been funded before, and why the City of Williamstown, the City of Altona, the Australian Greek Welfare Society, the City of Essendon, the Huntingdale Technical School and the City of Chelsea, which had previously been funded, were denied funding for these holidays? Do the same criteria that apply to those people apply in every other State? 
-As my colleague  Senator Grimes  has said, we do not oppose the States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Amendment Bill. In fact, we support a Bill which does anything at all to assist in alleviating the deplorable situation which exists for so many pensioners in today's civilisation. But we do not feel that this Bill is good enough. It does not go far enough. It does not give any indication that the Government will go any further or take any more seriously the plight of many people in the community today. We cannot help wondering how long pensioners have to wait and how many surveys have to be done before the Government will act. This Bill extends funding for 12 months, we are told, until the new Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement comes into effect. But so far we do not have any sign from the Government that it is taking the situation seriously or is seriously considering the position in which many elderly people find themselves today. 
We are told that this period of 12 months, apart from waiting for the new housing agreement, will give time for the reports of the Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health and of the Committee of Inquiry into the Care of the Aged and Infirm to be studied and perhaps reforms introduced. As  Senator Grimes  has said, many people will die in the meantime. I ask: How many people will die of neglect, in loneliness, hungry and cold while the Government dallies? We really do not need any more surveys in the community to know that a considerable number of people are not catered for, that they do not have a home of any sort. We do not need one more piece of paper to tell us that. The surveys we have carried out have filled in the details. We do not need any more work done on the subject. 
Two years ago welfare organisations in Melbourne calculated that there were 3500 homeless men in the inner Melbourne area alone. They were sleeping in abandoned buildings, park kiosks and railway carriages. Today welfare organisations tell us that the numbers with which they are dealing are increasing rapidly and that the number of men who need a bed and breakfast is increasing rapidly. They point out that what worries them is that a larger number of those men are younger and that they appear quite hopeless about their future. Still there is nowhere for them to go. There is no indication that this Government knows or cares about the situation. 
In refusing to make State governments accountable for the funds they receive, as this Bill does, the Commonwealth Government is washing its hands of the problems. It refuses to use its ability to channel some of these funds into these areas of very real need. What is the point of having surveys and committees of inquiry unless the Government is prepared to use its position to channel funds into the areas of great need? This Government in this Bill has opted out of that position. There is no evidence that State governments are prepared to look after or to face up to the problem of homeless people. If we are to believe that the Government is relying on the reports of the task force and the committee of inquiry, then we want to know that the Government is taking those reports seriously and is following them up. 
The State housing commissions, certainly in Victoria, have done nothing in this area. In fact, if one asks them about this situation they deny it. But case after case comes into our offices of people in positions of great trouble. The State housing commissions appear to be magnifying the problem rather than solving it. Case after case comes in of the elderly surviving member of a marriage being asked to leave the home in which he or she has lived for years because the housing commission wants the accommodation for other families. So housing commissions are accelerating the problem. There are more elderly people in need of accommodation in many areas because of the attitude taken by the State housing commissions. How can we accept a federal government which opts out of its responsibilities by saying to the States: 'There is the money, you go ahead and do the job', without giving some guidance as to where the job should be done? Federal governments have to do more than just sign the cheque. They have to be accountable to the community to help solve the problems. 
Nobody is taking responsibility for people who, for a varying number of reasons, have no home. For instance, it is well known in Victoria that the division at Pentridge to which the drunks are sent is home for many of them. It is the only home they know and the only home they have known for years. As far as they can see into their short future it is the only place in which they will ever get warmth, food, comfort and friendship. That is all society offers them. They do not mind how many times they go back because every time it is like going home. If I am to believe the welfare organisations in Melbourne- I have no reason to believe that they are not caring people who know something about this area- the position is getting worse. There are more and younger people in that position and this should be a great worry to the Government. 
There is another area in which the Government could assist. As far as I can see the Government has not taken this situation very seriously. It is the cost of keeping elderly people in nursing homes. As we all know, from a private and government point of view, that cost is increasing rapidly. Also, if we are honest we know that the atmosphere in a nursing home is not right for people. We send elderly people to nursing homes because we do not have anywhere else to send them and, more importantly, because there is nobody to look after them. We would be more honest if we shot many of them. They go into the nursing homes, they give up and they die there. If they were kept in their own homes they would live longer and happier lives and take a part in the community. But often, because of their disabilities, they cannot be left to live alone in their own homes. Sometimes, just because they are old, they cannot be left alone in a house. But who is to care? 
I draw the attention of the Senate to a group in New South Wales- as far as I know it is only in New South Wales- called the carers' group. It was formed in New South Wales under the umbrella of the Council for the Ageing. Its members come from groups of people whose job it is to stay at home and look after elderly people in their own homes. At the moment these people get no recognition from the Government. Some of them get some sort of special benefit. Some of the members of these groups are mature people who left good jobs because they felt that they should set priorities. They felt they could not leave elderly people to starve or to die alone. Such members have left jobs to go home and look after the elderly. In doing so they relieve the Government and the country of a great responsibility. 
We talk very glibly about the nuclear family and the family unit. But we do not do a great deal about it. These people take the responsibilities of a family seriously. They stay at home to look after people who need care. At the moment in only some instances do we give them any sort of income. Generally the allowance or special benefit we pay them depends on the income of the person being cared for. I think that puts people in an intolerable position. If we decide that we cannot leave our mother to die in a nursing home because we believe that in the last years of her life she deserves the love, comfort and care of a loved one at home with her, then we have to rely on her charity- that is the amount of money she has in the bank- on which to live. I do not think that is good enough. We ought to be showing some gratitude to these people. We should be showing some sympathy. These people have enough humanity to stay at home and care for the elderly people. We ought to make sure that at least they have a minimum income on which they can live while they are doing this. 
I think the Government should look to those people and pay them a proper pension or benefit. These people should receive the same sort of benefit and the same sort of fringe benefits which people who are paid certain widows' pensions receive. In the United Kingdom and other European countries it is accepted that people are being humane and are doing a great service to the community by accepting responsibility for the people who cannot be left alone in private dwellings and they are paid the sort of support they need to carry out that work. When one remembers that the reports and surveys that have been undertaken in this country show that our population is aging at an increasing rate, when one remembers that in New South Wales in February 1977 500 people were receiving income support paid by way of special benefit because they had left paid employment to care for infirm relatives in private dwellings, and when one remembers how hard it is to receive that special benefit, one wonders how many people there are in the community who are carrying out this work. One then realises that it is a very important task. There is an increasing number of people doing it and if we really believe that elderly people should be looked after we should take into account the people who are looking after them and provide government money, community money, to assist those people to do that work. 
The Commonwealth now is paying $80 to $ 100 a week for each patient in a convalescent or nursing home and I suggest to the Government that that money would be much better used if it were paid to loving people who care for their aged people and look after them in their own homes. Under the present scheme we have adults who were taxpaying people carrying their weight in the community and who leave paid employment to carry out what they believe to oe a socially necessary task. I would like to think that governments would take note of this and realise what an important part these people play in the community. Otherwise these people- or carers as they are called in New South Wales, and it is a rather nice term- will feel abandoned by society as second rate citizens. Because they have a conscience and love the person they are caring for, they leave the working community and are made to feel much the same as the kids who are left on unemployment benefits, as bludgers, because they are asking for some income while they do this socially necessary task. 
I suggest to the Government that they are not bludgers but are people performing a necessary task, a task that we had hoped governments would have seen to be necessary and would have taken note of. It does not mean the building of Taj Mahals all over Australia into which we can lump elderly people. It means that elderly people can go on playing a part in the community but are looked after in their own homes. I hope that before the Budget negotiations are concluded the Government will look at the entire field of elderly care. It is not a matter of building single units in the proper place. It is not a matter of building at all in many ways. It is a matter of the community facing up to its responsibilities and caring more about the entire community, whether it is young, middle-aged or aged. It is a way of using resources that we have to better advantage. Before this grant runs out we hope that the Government will accept responsibility for all pensioners and will accept that it has some responsibility to make sure that all and not just some pensioners have proper accommodation. Even if they are people who have not been able to provide bricks and mortar during their lifetime or the wherewithal to buy bricks and mortar, they are still human beings and unless the Government takes the responsibility for shooting them and putting them out of their misery, we have the situation where men spend nights in kiosks, parks and railway carriages, where old people cry themselves to sleep cold and hungry, where people who have the concern to look after them do not know where the next penny is coming from to carry on that task. I would like to think that before we get to the end of the Budget session the Government will have shown that it has a proper plan to cope with all aspects of problem of pensioners and their accommodation rather than continue the patchwork we have seen up to this time. 

 -Mr President, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Act 1964 I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Royal Australian Air Force Base, Point Cook, Victoria. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. On 10 March I asked a question regarding the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee as to when an election was to be held to replace  Mr David  Anderson who resigned on 28 February and when the next meeting of the NACC was to be held. To date I have received no reply. As to this date no by-election has been held to replace  Mr Anderson  and now more than 12 months have elapsed since the last meeting of the NACC, can the Minister give me some information on this matter? 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Has  Dr Myers  been asked to include in his review of unemployment benefits the position of people not presently eligible for benefits, such as school leavers under 16 years of age and unemployed spouses? 
I wish to add to the remarks of  Senator Keeffe  about some areas of Victoria. He spoke about Aboriginal homes in Bairnsdale and mentioned that garages had been pulled down because Aboriginal people might sleep in them. Those garages have been replaced by car pons. I have seen the type of garage that the Department has pulled down in Bairnsdale. They are good, solid and workmanlike garages. The only excuse for their demolition is that Aboriginals might sleep there. This, of course, points up the fact that there are not enough houses for these people. But the idiocy goes even further. The Department did not just pull down garages and replace them with car ports. It went into homes that did not have garages or cars and where nobody even had a driving licence and it put up car ports outside those homes. Of course, these houses stand out like sore toes. The people of Bairnsdale ask How would you like to be living next to someone who gets a garage for nothing while you have to work for yours? He does not even have a car but he gets a carport built'. 
Approximately $130,000 was made available for the maintenance of these homes in Victoria. 
In what year were the garages pulled down? 
They are being built now. It is being done this year. This money was made available for maintenance on these homes. Some homes are desperately in need of maintenance because large families have been living in them. The wear and tear has been extreme in some instances. But instead of having any maintenance done on the living area of the homes, these ridiculous car ports have been put up in the backyards. This seems to point up some aberration in the thinking of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Victoria. There are homes that stand out not only because they have these car ports now standing beside them but also because they have been painted on the outside. They are bright and shiny on the outside but the inside is absolutely intolerable. These houses have had very old wood stoves in them for years. The wood stoves have worn out and smoke intolerably so that the entire inside of the house is covered by smoke stains and grease stains. With the best will in the world, one could spend all day and all night scrubbing those houses from top to bottom and in a week they would be as bad again. 
The Department refuses to do anything about the stoves. It refuses to do anything about painting the inside of the houses. There are houses there where the hot water service has been leaking for some time. There are homes where the hot water service will come through the ceiling and may land on some poor, unfortunate child. But nothing is done. There are car ports and there is some paint on the outside of the homes. This money was made available for maintenance of these homes. Yet, in Shepparton, where there are many Aboriginal homes, nothing at all has been done by way of maintenance for 7 years or more. What exactly was this money for maintenance spent on and what is the rationale for putting up car ports near homes when people do not even have a driving licence? 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Can she advise what outlets are used by her Department to make available to the public material setting out social security benefits that can be claimed? Is she satisfied that there are sufficient outlets to give proper cover? Is she satisfied that there is sufficient display of material to encourage the community to acquaint itself with the benefits available? Will she consider making this material directly available to concerned groups, such as elderly citizens' groups? 
I present the following petition from 93 citizens of Australia. 
To the Right Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
Whereas there is mounting evidence that some 60 000, perhaps as many as 100 000 East Timorese may have been killed since the invasion of East Timor by Indonesian forces; and whereas a resolution of the General Assembly of the United Nations on 1 2 December1975 stated that it 'strongly deplores the military intervention of the armed forces of Indonesia in Portuguese Timor' and 'calls upon the Government of Indonesia to desist from further violation of the territorial integrity of Portuguese Timor and to withdraw without delay its armed forces from the Territory in order to enable the people of the Territory freely to exercise their right of self-determination and independence'; and whereas Australia's Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Andrew  Peacock, in a statement to the House of Representatives on 4 March 1976 described Australia's policy on East Timor as clear' and calling for the 'withdrawal of Indonesian troops ', a cessation of hostilities', 'the implementation of an act of self-determination and a resumption of humanitarian aid through the International Committee of the Red Cross', your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should: 
Ensure the Australian Government's policy on East Timor is re-stated publicly and unequivocally; and 
Pursue the implementation of the said policy as strongly as possible; and, 
Call for the immediate discontinuance of all military aid to Indonesia, including the training of Indonesian troops on Australian soil; and 
Demand that the broadcasting Acts be no longer applied selectively to prevent communication with the Democratic Republic of East Timor; and 
Seek a full and open inquiry into the invasion of East Timor and the deaths of six Australian journalists; and  (0  Urge the Australian Government and its instrumen talities not to prevent the shipping of humanitarian aid to East Timor. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Since the petition exceeds 250 words in length, under sessional orders it may not be read. However, the full text will be recorded in  Hansard. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security what advice we should give young people who left school last December, failed to gain employment or the unemployment benefit and are now contacting our offices regarding their eligibility for unemployment benefit. Do they have to take out High Court writs to gain this right and are they eligible for legal aid to do this? 
The Minister for Social Security yesterday in reply to a question regarding steps that young people who left school in November and December last year should take to apply for unemployment benefit, advised that these people should apply to the Department for a review. In view of the reports of unopened mail, unattached mail and unanswered telephone calls, I ask: Was that a realistic answer to give? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 29 March 1977: 
1 ) How many research projects and activities funded in whole or in pan by Australian military departments are currently being undertaken in Australian post-secondary institutions. 
How many research projects and activities funded in whole or in pan by foreign military departments are currently being undertaken in Australian post-secondary institutions. 
What is the title and nature of the work being done on each of these research projects and activities. 
How much money has been allocated toward each project and activity by military departments and what other sources and amounts of funding are being used for each of the listed research projects and activities. 
In which post-secondary institution is each research project and activity being undertaken 
In which faculties, or departments of these institutions, is each of the research projects and activities being undertaken. 
What are the names of the principal investigators for each research project and activity. 
What are the scheduled dates for completion of each research project and activity. 
To whom are the findings and reports of each ofthe research projects and activities to be sent. 
For each research project and activity, which body was responsible for the approval of the nature of the work and the funding arrangements. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 24 May 1 977: 
1 ) Did the Minister in answer to a question asked by  Senator Melzer  on 4 May 1977, relating to holiday care projects for children state that the main criteria for funding was that the Minister would look first to those organisations which had been funded before. If so, on what criteria did the City of Frankston and the Hawkesburn Primary School, which had not previously been funded, receive funds. 
Why were the Cities of Williamstown, Altona, Essendon and Chelsea, the Australian Greek Welfare Society and Huntingdale Technical School, all of which had previously been funded, denied funds for their holiday care projects. 
3 ) Does the same criteria apply in each State. 
My question is to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I draw to the Minister's attention a pamphlet being distributed in Victoria by the Hospital Benefits Association Ltd. In part, it says: 
In addition HBA offers higher hospital benefits of $60 and $70 per day and also other benefits Medibank does not provide . . . 
It continues: 
HBA offers Dental/Chemist/Ancillary cover (not available from Medibank Private) . . . 
As both these statements are false, will the Minister have the matter investigated as a breach of the Trade Practices Act and, in the meantime, instruct HBA to withdraw this blatant example of false and misleading advertising? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. The last Estimates showed provision for a migrant welfare service in Melbourne and Sydney. I know that the Melbourne service is operative. Can the Minister give me details of the current situation in Sydney? 
-In rising in this debate I must point out to  Senator Young  that the difference between his party and my party is that the Australian Labor Party is aware of what is going on in the world. We are alive to the developments in the world and when we have made a mistake we are big enough and honest enough to change our policy.  Senator Young  said he was curious to know why we changed our policy. He obviously had some ideas about why we changed it. I wish he had been honest enough to come forth and say what he thought the reasons were. The point is that we reflect the changing views of the community when it comes to the use of uranium. We have taken to heart the call of the first Fox report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry which, as  Senator Douglas  McClelland reminded the Senate, recommended that no decision on the mining and export of uranium be taken until a reasonable time had elapsed and there had been an opportunity for the usual democratic processes to function,  including  in this respect parliamentary debate.  Mr Justice  Fox wanted the fullest possible public and parliamentary debate on the matter. We have tried to assist that debate by producing material on the subject, by producing a book, by producing films, by endeavouring to give all sides of the argument and by encouraging wide-ranging debate. In view of what we now know about uranium and the use of uranium, we feel that our policy is in line with both public awareness and what the public wants. 
Despite what the first Ranger report said on the matter of mining uranium, it had to be noted that when the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was in Europe in May and June obviously he was selling uranium. This was despite the fact that he had been advised that no decision should be made until the community was aware of the difficulties and despite the fact that no announcement had been made in Australia. 
On 20 June it was recorded in the newspapers that Chancellor Schmidt of West Germany had said: 
I understand Australia has no intention of sitting on its uranium. It wants to sell it. 
That remark was made immediately after he had spent 90 minutes in intimate discussion with our Prime Minister. From other remarks in other European newspapers it was obvious that our Prime Minister was trotting around Europe assuring all and sundry that we would sell our uranium so long as the price was right. After our Prime Minister has made these arrangements and had these discussions, at this late date, we are now debating the second Fox report and the so-called safeguards put out by the Prime Minister. This week the Melbourne  Herald  carried the headline 'Uranium Mining: Government All Clear'. The article stated: 
The Federal Government has decided to authorise the mining and export of uranium. Federal Cabinet met today to complete details of the policy. 
That was reported in the  Herald.  So far as I have been able to find out, there has been no denial by the Government that it has agreed to the sale, mining and export of uranium. I have not heard any denial or explanation of the report by the Government. When the Government obviously agreed to sell uranium it should have remembered that the first recommendation of the second Fox report was: 
That the Ranger project, as proposed, and in the land use setting which was assumed, not be allowed to proceed. 
The Government has never taken account of that, nor has it ever publicised the point. The report went on to state: 
That, if an adverse decision on the Ranger project is not made on the basis of the wider consideration discussed in our First Report . . ., it be allowed to proceed, but only in the circumstances stipulated in this Report and subject to the recommendations we make in it. 
It states further: 
No pan of our proposals be varied unless it is clear that alternatives will be pursued which will just as satisfactorily achieve the same purposes and satisfy the same principle. 
As yet nothing has been done. No legislation is proposed. Despite that sort of report from the Fox inquiry, despite the fact that the newspapers are saying that the Government has agreed to the mining and export of uranium, and despite the fact that the Victorian Government has reported that it proposed a 1000 megawatt nuclear station for Victoria by 1995, we have yet had no report from the Government on any sort of legislation that would safeguard Australians or, for that matter, the world from what the consequences of all that might be. We have just heard key Government Ministers saying: 'Of course we will mine uranium. Of course we will export it'. The only safeguards that have been handed down are the safeguards that deal with what might happen to uranium when it is exported. 
There are dangers to miners in Australia, although our mines will be open cut rather than deep mines, and although it is acknowledged that in deep cut mining of uranium in America a miner has a 400 per cent greater chance of dying of cancer than a miner who is not in the uranium field. Our mines will be open cut, so presumably there will be greater ventilation, but rich sources of uranium mean high concentrations of uranium, which mean high concentrations of radon gas. Radon gas is the material which, lodged in miners' lungs, causes cancer. The Ranger report agreed that protective measures should be brought to bear in mines in Australia. It declared that these measures must be carried out before any mines are allowed to be opened in Australia. 
The Fox report said that there must be assured protection of the environment at the expense of the person who was mining, and that the obligation on the operator to protect the environment must be legally enforceable. It was said that the performance of the obligation must be fully secured before any mine was opened; that a trust fund or bond must be provided for anybody or anything that may be damaged by the mining; that there must be firm and legally binding undertakings to replace the tailings in the pits and that no relaxation of those bindings must be allowed under any circumstances; that the tailing dams must be sealed by an impervious membrane; that steps must be taken to reduce the loss of yellowcake dust; that the protection of the environment must be assured if mines were to go into liquidation or for any reason were to terminate their operation; that the Government should immediately explore what steps it can take to assist in reducing the hazards, the dangers and the problems associated with the production of nuclear energy; and that a national energy policy should be developed and reviewed regularly. 
None of those things has happened. There is no evidence that any of those things are even anticipated in the future. Yet we have the Government assuring people that we will mine and export our uranium. Uranium miners are told that they must be very careful to wash the dust off their faces and hands, yet there are no rules and regulations brought in to ensure that that happens. The dust particles are the danger. They can breathe the particles into their lungs. Some miners in uranium mines in Australia have already been shown to have been irradiated in their work, and some have left the industry. Queensland Mines Ltd takes some of this very seriously because it has estimated that without protective clothing a worker can stay in some areas of the mine for only one hour a week before receiving the maximum permissible dose of radiation. So at least that company takes it seriously even if the Government does not. 
The South Australian Branch of the Australian Medical Association in a report it brought down on the biological effects of radiation on human health and safety said: 
Nuclear energy creates an unprecedented possibility of unintended or malicious disaster, affecting whole communities. 
The Fox Report went on to say: 
The nuclear power industry is unintentionally contributing to an increased risk of nuclear war. This is the most serious hazard associated with the industry. Complete evaluation of the extent of the risk and assessment of what course should be followed to reduce it involve matters of national security and international relations which are beyond the ambit of the Inquiry. We suggest that the questions involved are of such importance that they be resolved by Parliament. 
As yet nothing has been brought to our attention. We were told by a speaker today that it is impossible to produce a nuclear bomb. The Ford Foundation in America, a respected research establishment there, has said that crude atomic bombs can be manufactured in clandestine laboratories with relatively modest amounts of know-how. The  Canberra Times  of 18 May 1977 reported a British newspaper which said that it had assembled all the parts of an atomic bomb except for the plutonium explosive, to demonstrate that terrorists could do the same. Professor Joseph Rotblat, Professor of Physics at the London University, said that the  Daily Express  had shown him a picture of the device and details of its construction. He said: 'If I were a member of the Government and were shown by a group of terrorists what you have shown me I would not like to gamble with the lives of thousands of people. I would also be terrified. So we have the know-how to make the bomb. We need the material. 
The Government Accounting Office in America reported to Congress that 1 1 000 lb of plutonium and enriched uranium had vanished from government factories there. It went on to report that 20 000 lb of that same material had vanished from private facilities in America. Britain reported that enough material to produce 15 nuclear bombs could not be accounted for. They do not know whether it is their accounting system that is at fault, whether the material has been lost in the machinery, whether it was never produced or whether it was stolen or sold, but it is missing and from it nuclear bombs can be produced. We all remember the ship that sailed from Antwerp to Italy and when it arrived in Italy it was found that 200 tons of plutonium and enriched uranium had vanished. Despite the fact that the security services of four European countries were concentrated on the matter, no trace of the material was ever found. People have ideas about where it is but nobody knows where it is. It has not been found. 
We know that there are countries agitating to use atomic bombs- small countries that want to improve their status, small countries that want to be big countries. They want to use atomic bombs. Once one bomb goes off, no one knows where the next one will go off. When  President  Carter told South Korea that he was taking American troops home the South Koreans immediately said to him that uranium from Australia was essential so that that country could produce nuclear weapons with which to protect itself. There are supposed safeguards against nuclear war- non proliferation treaties. One has only to look at non proliferation treaties and at which countries have not signed them to realise how useless they are. Countries such as China, France, Chile and South Africa have not signed a non proliferation treaty, A non proliferation treaty does not prevent the material or the knowledge being passed on from countries which are signatories to countries which are not signatories. A country has to give a mere 90 days notice of withdrawal to get out from underneath a treaty at any time. We all know that no piece of paper and no treaty will protect a country from another country. No piece of paper will protect people from wicked people or desperate people. One has only to look at the pieces of paper that have been torn up in our lifetimes to know what a flimsy safeguard they are against nuclear war. 
Malcolm Booker, a former Australian diplomat, pointed out in a speech that proliferation of nuclear weapons had been slow because of the difficulty in developing an intercontinental missile to carry the warhead. Now the United States has come to our rescue. It has produced the cruise missile. It is ideal for the purpose of carrying nuclear warheads. The Prime Minister has proposed certain safeguards if we mine and export our uranium. As has been mentioned, amongst them were the following: 
Should the Government approve further development of the Australian uranium industry it will retain the right to be selective in the countries to whom uranium export will be permitted. 
Australia would seek to arrange with uranium importing countries export level consultations to satisfy itself of the implementation of the provision of bilateral agreements. 
Let me remind honourable senators about India and Canada. Canada provided India with a nuclear reactor and fuel to experiment with the peaceful use of atomic energy. India cheated and made a bomb. Canada cut off its source of supply but in the last few months the United States of America has told India that she will again be able to receive supplies of fuel from America so long as she promises to talk about the safeguards that could be brought into being. Once such material has been given to a country like India and she has made a big hole in the ground with it, why should Pakistan, her neighbour, not equally receive material and a nuclear reactor for which she is agitating? 
Further safeguards are as follows: 
The Government wishes to ensure that if a decision was taken to permit new uranium  export,  the uranium would be covered by International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards from the time it left Australia 's ownership. 
How would it be covered? There are no safeguards that are universally accepted. There is no way to enforce the safeguards if there were any. There are very few safeguards practised in the world today as the material moves around the world, as is obvious from the material that has vanished already. Let me quote  Dr Edward  Teller who has been working on the peaceful application of nuclear power and who was brought out here to encourage us to mine and sell our uranium. He said: 
But here is a serious question, a question to which I don't have a complete answer and I will not pretend to have one. Every nuclear reactor produces material that can be used in nuclear explosives. None of us want proliferation of nuclear weapons. At least we should try to slow down this proliferation so that our politicians, who have the hardest job of us all, should be able to deal with the questions of lasting peace. If you ask me whether I can guarantee that uranium oxide, yellowcake, exported from Australia will never be used in war, I will have to admit that there is no such guarantee. We better recognise that the world is full of dangers and that life itself is dangerous and short. All we can do is choose the lesser danger. 
Frankly, I am not prepared to accept a danger that he calls lesser and I call greater. The fifth proposal of the Government to protect us from the final use of our uranium was: 
The Government believes that nuclear material supplied by Australia or nuclear material derived from its use should remain under safeguards for the full life of the material in question or until it is legitimately removed from safeguards. 
Once used, uranium produces plutonium. Plutonium has to be guarded for half a million years. That is a much longer time than that for which we have record of a civilisation existing on this earth. Yet this Government says very blandly that it believes that so long as it is needed such material should be guarded to safeguard the world from its consequences. Through half a million years we have to guard plutonium. It stays active that long. One ten-millionth of a gram will cause cancer. It is universally admitted by every known scientist that it cannot be destroyed. 
Once we have used uranium to produce nuclear power we have radioactive waste and, despite what  Senator Young  has said and despite the pious hopes he has that we may find a way to dispose of the waste, there is no known satisfactory way to deal with the waste at this moment. There are scientists in some parts of the world who hope that by 1985 they may have found a way. There are people who hope that we may find a way to deal with it, but if there was a satisfactory way to deal with it there would be somebody on top of this Parliament House yelling it to the four winds and those people would be from the Uranium Producers Forum because they would have found a way to deal with all the people who object to the use of uranium at the moment. Nobody has found a satisfactory way to deal with the waste at the moment. The South Australian branch of the Australian Medical Association has pointed out that nuclear energy entails unprecedented potential risks for future generations via the possible erosion of the human gene pool because of the radiation and because of the attack on human genes by the material we produce by mining and using uranium. 
Plutonium was taken seriously by the Flowers mission in Britain which had set down guidelines slightly different from those for the Fox Commission. This very proper royal commission reported to the British Parliament that if the world were to continue to use nuclear energy and so produce plutonium then the world might very well look at establishing plutonium parks- areas around the world where plutonium could be stored forever and be guarded by a plutonium priesthood composed of people devoted to guarding the world from the plutonium lodged there. It sounds like science fiction but it is not science fiction. It is what a very proper royal commission found on the evidence that was placed before it. 
The sort of proposals that have been made for waste disposal include bringing the waste to Australia and burying it in the centre of Australia. That has been laughed at by some people in Australia. It was laughed at by the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  when he returned from an overseas jaunt. The Minister said he saw no mileage in talking of plutonium dumps, but at that stage Government advisers had already drafted the pros and cons of such a scheme for Australia, and this was published in the  Age  of 1 3 May 1977 which read: 
An international fuel cycle centre in Australia would take back spent fuel rods from overseas, extract the re-useable uranium and fabricate it into new fuel rods for re-export. The plutonium by-product, however, would be held here under IAEA control and supervision, while the nuclear wastes would be vitrified and buried. 
The proposal has a number of advantages for Australia, said the advisers. 
It would strengthen non-proliferation by regaining the spent fuel derived from Australian uranium exports. 
There would be safer burial of wastes than if these were buried in less geologically stable user countries. 
They did not mention politically stable countries, honourable senators will notice. The article went on to say: 
There would be substantial economic benefits from royalties, rent, employment and capital inflow. 
The advisers did go on to list the disadvantages that there might be. They included: The public fears about the safety of our nuclear waste dump; the security threat from terrorists or other countries who might raid the plutonium stockpile for weapons material or even bomb the fuel centre to cripple other countries' nuclear industries; the political problems in handing over our local sovereignty to the international supervisory agency, including questions such as whether Taiwan could use the centre; and the precedent created for further 'garbage can' industries in Australia. What a great future! Australia- the world's nuclear garbage can. If we are going to sell the material and if we are going to get some economic advantage out of it perhaps we have a moral obligation to take these very dangerous by-products back into our country and keep them here. One has only to be reminded at this stage that science has established that there is no dose of radiation that is so low that its cumulative effects may not cause cancer, affect life or affect life in the future. 
The Government is hypocritical to copy  President  Carter in his reaction to fast breeder reactors. We talk about increasing the amount of plutonium in the world and so increasing the dangers that everybody admits exist with this dangerous material. At the moment we have something like two million tonnes of uranium. Used in a conventional reactor that will produce 200 000 tonnes of plutonium. Two hundred thousand bombs of the sort that devastated Nagasaki could be made from that material and it could produce the sort of plutonium that is 800 times more than the amount needed to kill every man, woman and child on this planet. So when we hypocritically talk about the dangers of fast breeder reactors coming into the stream in the world, let us be fair dinkum and talk about the amount of material that the use of our uranium in the world will produce for the world. 

 Senator Young wanted examples of how nuclear power can kill. In the short time I have left in this debate I will give him two examples. In January 1961 the reactor in the Idaho Falls complex in the United States of America experienced a power excursion that lasted one fivethousandths of a second. The three-man crew was killed on the spot. The victims were so severely irradiated that their exposed hands and heads had to be severed from their bodies and buried in a dump for radioactive waste. Years were required to dissemble the radioactive wreckage of the reactor and its eventual burial ground will have to be guarded forever. The official investigation stated: 'We cannot say with any certainty what initiated the explosion and it is possible that we may never know'. I remind honourable senators that a few weeks ago there was a report that a scientist working at Lucas Heights had died of cancer and that the Atomic Energy Commission had accepted responsibility to the extent that it was paying compensation to the man's wife. The head of the AEC said on Monday morning: 'Nonsense, it could not have happened because I do not know'. By Monday night he was saying it did happen and 'why did I not know'. So it has happened. 
We talk about why the world should want to handle a material that is so dangerous in the current circumstances. We are told that it is because there is an energy crisis in the world. We know that there is an energy crisis coming in liquid fuel, but the use of uranium does not help us produce liquid fuels in this world. If we use the large brown coal deposits that we have, if we get on with that and if we look to establishing plants from which a liquid fuel can be produced we might do better than by playing around with a material that will not give us the sort of fuel we want. Coal has been cited as an alternative energy supply and we have heard what a dangerous substance it is and that it will not last us very long anyway. The Fox Committee reported that it was apparent that there was a great deal of scope for reducing the rate of energy consumption required for a given level of economic activity, particularly in countries such as the United States of America and Canada which historically have had access to cheap energy and have therefore not been economically motivated to conservation. Perhaps now they may be economically motivated to conservation or they may at last believe we should not go on using up the world's resources on rubbish when we have a finite amount of them. The Fox report went on to point out that there was a large amount of coal in the world and it was not likely to run out for decades in the future.  Senator Douglas  McClelland pointed out that we have one per cent of the world's total coal deposits. To give the Senate some idea of our deposits I will refer to the Victorian Government Green Paper on Energy. It states that Victoria has known coal deposits of 66 700 million tonnes. Geologists believe that our actual resources may be nearly twice that amount. In 55 years we have so far extracted less than one-half of one per cent of that amount of coal. 
When one talks about the cost of producing energy from coal compared to nuclear energy, one must examine other costs, for example, the cost of nuclear reactors and the cost of producing energy from coal. They are out of kilter because the capital and development costs of coal-fired stations and oil from coal plants are comparable or less than the capital costs of nuclear power. The costs of nuclear reactors are rising rapidly. The costs of disposing of nuclear waste are rising rapidly. The costs in this field are rising rapidly all the time. 
The number of objections from people in the world also is rising rapidly. For example, only three reactors were built in the United States of America last year- not the large number that had been indicated would be built. Japan, which said that 17 per cent of her energy would be produced from nuclear energy by 1980, now admits that that figure will be 6 per cent. Germany, which said that 75 per cent of its energy would be produced from nuclear energy by 1985, has now reduced that figure to 8 per cent. The market is drifting away from us. 
In West Germany, as all honourable senators would be aware, there are areas in which the courts have refused to give licences for the building of nuclear power plants until the courts can be convinced that proper arrangements have been made to deal with the waste. In Germany there are more people now in the movement against uranium mining than there are in all the political parties combined. The people in Austria think that their country may be the first country in Europe to completely turn her back on the use of nuclear energy because she wants to be assured that the waste can be handled safely and that people will not be endangered. Sweden has turned her back on nuclear energy until she can be assured that the world can handle the dangerous waste. In Sweden, 100 000 people sat on a mine to prevent it from being extended because they were so concerned about how the world was using this energy. In France, as all honourable senators will be aware, thousands of people are concerned about the dangers that come from nuclear power plants and the fast breeder reactor that France is trying to build. They are prepared -100,000 of them- to protest to their governments about the building of nuclear reactors. This movement is extending to Italy and Switzerland. As was indicated today in the Senate, people in Switzerland have signed a petition demanding that the Government hold a referendum before any further steps are taken in relation to nuclear energy. In the United States of America, of course, the need for nuclear energy has fallen away-so much so that the nuclear energy industry itself is saying that it is in disarray, that it does not know where it is going and that it would rather get out of the industry before any more problems arise because it cannot handle the problems facing it at the present time. 
The reactors that are built last about 30 years. They cost more than $2 50m to build. They cost about $ 100m to entomb in concrete at the end of their 30 years of life. Added to that are the costs of guarding the waste which will need to be guarded for thousands and thousands of years. This Government should take to heart what was said in the Ranger inquiry. It should endeavour to ensure that the Atomic Energy Commission is in a position to act as an honest adviser to the Government on the use of atomic energy rather than as an agent for the uranium producers. Information about atomic energy should be given in the market place so that the people of Australia can be concerned and fully informed about the mining of uranium. If the Atomic Energy Commission adopted that role it would contribute much more than it has done up to this time. 
If the $20m which has been spent up to this point of time on research into atomic energy was spent on research into solar power- a clean renewable safe source of energy- we would be advancing the cause of the Third World countries much further than we are advancing them at the moment. There is no answer to the problems associated with the disposal of the waste that comes into being once uranium is used to produce nuclear energy. There are no safeguards against nuclear war which is possible once uranium is mined. This is one area in which I feel Australia ought to take a moral stand and show the way to the rest of the world by keeping this highly dangerous material in the ground until we can be shown that the world can use it safely. An atomic energy scientist in America when queried about the amount of radiation that people can stand and the amount the world can stand, said: 
The world may have to take a higher dose of radiation or freeze to death. 
I do not believe that is true. If it were true I believe the people of the world should have the right to make that decision. They can make that decision only if all sides of the argument are known to them. 
I would like to support  Senator McLaren  in his remarks regarding the Joint House Committee. There could not be a more frustrating committee in this place to belong to than the Joint House Committee. At every meeting, as  Senator McLaren  has said, all we do is get half-way through the minutes of the previous meeting. We never really get time for a proper discussion or time to make proper decisions or plan what should happen in the House. Now it appears that we have no right to make those decisions or to plan what should happen anyway. I was very shocked to find the  Speaker  telling me that really this was none of my business and that it was only by courtesy that I was having these matters put before me in the first place. Perhaps this accounts for the fact that we had to wait for 5 months this year before there was a meeting of the Joint House Committee. 
It appears that we have no say in when the Joint House Committee will meet but that the Joint House Department determines when it shall meet. We sit around and wait for the Department to call us together and to put various matters before us. We seem never to have time to bring forward matters that occur to us or matters that we want to discuss. We can find the time to discuss whether or not we should have margarine at the table, but we never get time to talk about the real running of Parliament House and the sorts of things that concern the comfort of members who spend so much of their lives in this place. When we do put forward matters and h ave discussion it is on things that I suppose will not bring the country to its knees. For instance, we made a decision about a female hairdresser in Parliament House. Without any discussion by the Joint House Committee, the female hairdresser has gone. Since there are a number of women in Parliament now we had discussions about the sorts of goods we could buy in the bar. We cannot buy these goods in the bar. We asked that they be there. We were assured that they would be. They are not there. We had discussions about who should use the sauna and the sort of roster that would be drawn up for its use. That was all ignored. 
It appears that we waste our time by belting into yet another committee meeting and sit there and agonise over the things that go on only to find that everything goes gaily on behind our backs without so much as a by your leave. I join with the remarks of  Senator McLaren.  I want to know what the Joint House Committee is for. What is it supposed to do? What authority has it? If it is merely window dressing let us out so that we can use our time for the other committees of the Parliament that are always asking us to attend extra meetings. 
I am not sure whether my question should be directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources or to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. Perhaps the appropriate Minister will answer the question. The Government is endeavouring to assure the public that it is concerned to see that Australian uranium is shipped overseas only with proper international atomic energy agency safeguards. Will the Minister tell me whether the Government has investigated whether any safeguards cover the uranium awaiting export from Brisbane at the moment? What are these safeguards? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether the Government is aware that the Federal Council of the United Nations Association of Australia at its meeting on 21 August resolved almost unanimously to call upon the Australian Government to defer a decision on its uranium policy in order to promote full public discussion on the questions raised by the mining and export of uranium, based on authoritative information such as the 1972 report of the Sutcliffe Committee of the United Nations, and to develop a national energy policy which concentrates on energy conservation and research and development of safer energy sources. Can the Minister tell me whether the Government will take this expression of opinion into account before announcing its policy on the mining and export of uranium from Australia? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. During the debate on Appropriation Bill (No. 3) last May I raised the matter of money which had been allocated to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for housing being used to build carports for Aboriginal families in Victoria who do not have cars or driving licences. I understood that the matter was to be investigated. Can the Minister advise me whether such an investigation has taken place and if so, what was the result of that investigation? 
-On 19 August I asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether the Government had investigated whether any safeguards covered the uranium then awaiting export from Brisbane and was told that the information would be sought. Can I now ask him what information has been obtained and what safeguards cover the shipments now being made and those that the Government hopes will be made in the near future? 
-I present the following petition from 30 citizens of Australia: 
To the Right Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: the humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlays to 2.3 per cent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government should totally finance national highways and half the cost of constructing and maintaining all other public roads. 
That since current road funding arrangements have seen a deterioration in road assets, this backlog in construction and maintenance needs to be reduced by the Commonwealth Government undertaking to make a larger financial contribution. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following petition from 14 citizens of Australia: 
To the right honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
Whereas there is mounting evidence that some 60,000, perhaps as many as 100,000 East Timorese may have been killed since the invasion of East Timor by Indonesian forces; and 
Whereas a resolution of the General Assembly of the United Nations on 12 December 197S, stated that it strongly deplores the military intervention of the armed forces of Indonesia in Portuguese Timor' and 'calls upon the Government of Indonesia to desist from further violation of the territorial integrity of Portuguese Timor and to withdraw without delay its armed forces from the Territory in order to enable the people of the Territory freely to exercise their right to self-determination and independence'; and 
Whereas Australia's Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Andrew  Peacock, in a statement to the House of Representatives on 4 March 1976, described Australia's policy on East Timor as 'clear' and calling for 'the withdrawal of Indonesian troops', 'a cessation of hostilities', 'the implementation oran act of selfdetermination as a resumption of humanitarian aid through the International Committee of the Red Cross'; 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should: 
ensure that the Australian Government's policy on East Timor is re-stated publicly and unequivocally; and 
pursue the implementation of the said policy as strongly as possible; and 
call for the immediate discontinuance of all military aid to Indonesia, including the training of Indonesian troops on Australian soil; and 
demand that the broadcasting acts be no longer applied selectively to prevent communication with the Democratic Republic of East Timor; and 
seek a full and open inquiry into the invasion of East Timor and the deaths of six Australian journalists; and 
urge the Australian Government and its instrumentalities not to prevent the shipping of humanitarian aid to East Timor. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Since this petition exceeds 250 words in length, I do not propose to ask that it be read. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. The AuditorGeneral in his report refers to the fact that the advice given to State offices of the Department of Social Security to investigate and recover overpayments for the period of 12 months only prior to the date of receipt of advice of changes in income or property and to ignore overpayments of less than $104 per annum might not be in accordance with the provisions of the Audit Act and Finance Regulations. Had legal advice been sought on these points before such instructions were issued to State offices? 
-My question relates to subject matter which I think could be commented on by the Attorney-General. Recently in another place the Prime Minister was asked whether he knew that a group calling itself the Australia Freedom Group had released the names and addresses of the entire staff of the Joint Intelligence Organisation, claiming that this material had been leaked by the Australian 
Security Intelligence Organisation as part of a private war between those two organisations. The Prime Minister's reply was that the question showed a lack of comprehension of the matter in that the names were freely available from the Commonwealth Directory. I wish to inform the Attorney-General that I looked in the directory and found nine names without addresses, whereas the list being circulated by the Australia Freedom Group or ASIO or whoever has 286 names and addresses. Therefore I ask: Did the Prime Minister wilfully mislead the Parliament? Are the names and addresses indeed those of people working for the Joint Intelligence Organisation? Is such material normally kept secure? What steps have been taken to establish how the leak occurred? How can increased funding to both these organisations be justified if it is used to finance private wars between them? 
-In my opinion, the National Health Acts Amendment Bill does little to change the lives of those aged people who are lucky enough to be in a good nursing home and who have sufficient private means to pay the difference between the government subsidy and the amount they are charged. Also, it has little effect on those who have been able to pay into private insurance funds but whose lives may be a little uncomfortable because they and their relatives are being pressured by private insurance funds which at the moment are screaming about the fact that they have to live up to their responsibilities, that people have paid money into the funds expecting some sort of assistance and that now they are being asked to pay out on nursing home bills. They do not like it. They are screaming about it. But the legislation does nothing to keep those people who were part of a survey directed in 1974 by the Department of Housing and Construction, the results of which were presented to this Government in 1976. It showed that 100,000 elderly people were living in sub-standard homes. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTOrder!  Senator Melzer,  I think you are reading your speech and I have said that speeches should not be read in the Senate chamber. 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  I am not reading my speech. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Oh, you are reading your speech.  (Quorum formed).  Before  Senator Melzer  resumes, I point out that I drew attention to the fact that I felt that she was reading her speech. She said that she was not, but I am quite convinced that she was looking down continuously, reading her speech. I point out that this matter was debated in the Senate not very long ago and it was decided that speeches in the Senate should not be read. Therefore I am carrying out what the Senate decided. In those circumstances I ask that speeches be not read. The use of notes is, of course, permissible, but not the overusage of notes which amounts almost to a reading of the speech. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  I appreciate  Senator Cavanagh  's point. I made that statement before  Senator Melzer  commenced her speech because in my opinion  Senator Grimes  used more than copious notes. I felt that in view of the fact that the Senate had made the decision re-affirming what has been the principle in the Senate, it was as well to make the announcement in case any other senator did the same. There was no intention to refer specifically to  Senator Melzer.  That is why I made the statement at that time. I did not stop  Senator Grimes.  I thought that the matter should be clarified when he finished speaking. I am only carrying out what the Senate decided- I appreciate  Senator Cavanagh  's views on this-that speeches shall not be read. There may be a certain amount of usage of notes but not of an overcopious character. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I point out that these points of order are coming out of  Senator Melzer  's time. 
Orders it is quite clear that it may apply only to the male members of the Senate. 
Not this night. 
It reduces the dignity of this chamber by making an issue of this matter whenever it suits whoever refers to it to do so. Ministers read their speeches without any compunction. They know that they must be word perfect. They know that the speech has been prepared for them by very conscientious officers and that they must mean what they say. There is no exception taken to a Minister reading a speech because that is the name of the game. But when a senator goes to a lot of trouble to write out what he wants to refer to and has his notes for reference, we are only splitting straws by making an issue of whether the senator is reading his speech. I think we should have a different look at this matter. Instead of quoting technicalities and all the other things that have been going on for the last 70 or 80 years, we should grow up a bit and realise that people prepare notes on what they want to say. They give thought to it. They apply themselves to it in their own offices and they bring the subject matter into this chamber. There is no doubt that 99.9 per cent of senators in this place prepare their own material and deliver it here. It is about time that we drew the line on the technicalities of whether or not someone is reading his speech. There may be a glaring example. It is said in Odgers  Australian Senate Practice  that on one occasion one person prepared the same speech for three different senators. It is obvious that a person such as this is proposing some case that has been motivated outside the Senate. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  I have heard enough argument on the matter. As far as I am concerned, I have been ruling in accordance with what I believe the Senate has decided upon and what has been the practice all the years that I have been here. I am only carrying out what the Senate itself has decided. I am not giving my own opinion on this; I am interpreting what the Senate nas decided. As I said before, I did not make this statement specifically picking upon  Senator Melzer,  and I do not want  Senator Melzer  to feel that. Generally, over the years I have been here it has been recognised that I have pulled up people on my side of the chamber just as much as people on the opposite side of the chamber. That is the only way that a person can adjudicate from this Chair in an impartial manner. I have heard sufficient debate on the matter. I am only carrying out what the Senate has decided. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 

 Senator, I ask you to keep quiet please. Nobody objects to people using a reasonable amount of notes, but when people use notes to the extent that it practically amounts to reading a speech, I think it is in contravention of what the Senate has decided- not what I have decided, but what the Senate has decided. Under those circumstances I must say that people may use notes but they must not over-use notes to the extent that they are continually looking down towards their desk. My own view is that while people are looking down their speech will not be nearly the same as it would if they were facing their audience. That is my own personal view. However, what I have outlined is the ruling so far as what the Senate has decided, and I stand by it. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Leave is not granted.  Senator Melzer  will you resume the debate please. 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  I can assure you that there is no way I would ever read my speech in the Senate, because in my kindergarten days in the Senate I remember observing a scene when a senator was making the most fluent speech. He was pulled up by the Chair and it was suggested that he was reading his speech, a speech that he had made during a previous session and that he was reading it from  Hansard.  He said it was a good speech he had made at the time and he could not see any reason he should not repeat it. The occupant of the Chair at the time ruled that the senator was merely using copious notes. I must say,  Sir, that  now you have me in the position - 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 

 Senator Melzer, you are really debating what is equivalent to a point of order - 
No. I am commenting. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTOrder!  Senator Melzer,  will you please resume you seat for a minute. In view of the statement that  Senator Melzer  has made, I want to make it quite clear that the person to whom she is referring is myself. I will clarify the situation. I will not have any misinterpretations. I was quoting from a speech relating to a constitutional matter. Those quotations were fairly extensive because they related to debates on the Australian Constitution in the latter part of the last century and the early part of this century. That was an entirely different matter. They were quotes from a speech relevant to what was being said.  Senator Melzer,  will you resume your speech please. I do not hide behind this thing. 

 - Sir, you now have me in a state where I am not sure whether my eyes should be on the ceiling or on my desk. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTOrder! Please do not cast any reflection on the Chair. Will you proceed with your speech. 
-I will. I wish to quote from a survey that was conducted in 1974 by the Department of Housing and Construction. Its report was presented to this Government in 1 976 although the survey was conducted in 1974. The survey showed that 100,000 elderly people were living in sub-standard houses and that 24,000 of the houses were unfit for human habitation and beyond repair. So far as I can see these people are not helped in any way by this Bill that deals with nursing homes and the amount of subsidy that should be paid to nursing homes. This is what concerns me. Nursing homes deal with only a small proportion of the elderly people in this community and there are a large number of them outside nursing homes whom this Bill does not help and will not help. 
No. I have lost my taste for stories. Increasingly I find that this benefit will not help people such as district nurses in Melbourne. In the western suburbs of Melbourne there are practically no nursing homes. So despite this Bill, which provides a subsidy for nursing homes, the nursing homes are in one area of Melbourne and there are vast areas where there are people desperately in need of such help but who will not be helped at all because nursing homes do not exist there. The district nurses in those areas will not be helped. In the western suburbs of Melbourne there are something like 250,000 people. There are something like 21 district nurses in those areas. They have to make at least 52,000 visits a year. The majority of those visits are to elderly people. These women visit people at the rate of six a day each for every day of their working lives. The legislation that is being brought down now will not help those people and, so far as I can ascertain, no other legislation will help the people caught in those sorts of areas. 
There is precious little money in this Budget for day hospitals. This is the sort of area that might very well be assisted by this Government. People who cannot afford to go into nursing homes, people who cannot find nursing homes to go into and people who find nursing homes with waiting lists of those who can go into them, at least could be helped by day hospitals; but there are no day hospitals in these areas either. This new era, to quote the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  will not help the relatives of aged people. The relatives themselves are likely to finish up as candidates for nursing homes because of the pressure that is put on them while they look after their elderly relatives. They get no break, no holiday and no assistance because there are no places for their relatives to go into. I object to this piecemeal look at the care of the aged. This legislation is likely to help the proprietors of nursing homes, who, so far as I can see, make a very handsome profit from the nursing homes that they run; but it will not help the people who need nursing home care. It will not help the people who themselves do not have the ability, or who do not have relatives who have the ability, to get them into nursing homes, lt will not help the people who do not have the money to enable them to get into nursing homes. 
The Minister has said that it is a new era and that nursing homes are being taken into the area of private health insurance. One wonders why elderly people should be pressured into taking out private health insurance when the sort of return and the son of help they are going to get from the Federal Government will be no different, whether they are in Medibank Standard or in private health funds. The sort of return that the nursing homes will get from the Government will be the same, whether the patients are in private health funds or in Medibank Standard. That is what one presumes. I would not like to think that this was the first step by the Government in providing a two-tier system of assistance for people in private nursing homes. If it means that the people who take out private health insurance are to get a different standard of care' in nursing homes from the people who are merely levy payers or are merely in Medibank Standard, I should think that it is the first step by the Government in providing a very bad system of assistance for people who have to go into nursing homes. 
Much comment has been made in the last few days about certain nursing homes in Queensland. People in Victoria tell me that there are nursing homes there that are very little different. One hears horrific stories of people in nursing homes going into beds that are barely cold after the last occupants of them have died and the nursing home proprietor has rung around the local doctors to find somebody who needs a bed. One hears horrific stories of sheets in nursing homes being torn up for dressings. One hears devastating stories about patients being strapped into chairs and beds because there is nobody to care for them. One hears stories from people who work in nursing homes of food bills that would not exceed $5 a head for patients in those nursing homes. 
This legislation is run of the mill legislation. It does very little to help the people who really need nursing home assistance. It does very little for elderly people who do not need nursing home assistance because, as has been pointed out in survey after survey, it is a matter not of how many beds one provides for elderly people but of what sort of services one provides for them from intensive medical care down to granny-minding services. That is the sort of care that is needed. Elderly people are human beings who exist in the community. They are not vegetables to be put into a nursing home to become merely a book entry as far as this community or this Government is concerned. In concluding this rather extraordinary speech that I have made this evening, I suggest to the Government that while it is looking at the problems of nursing homes and who pays the bills it also look as the older problems that concern elderly people and look not just at the matter of providing more beds for elderly people but also at providing a range of care that extends from, as I said, granny-minding to full time medical care for people who have done a great deal for our community and who are real human beings in our community. 
I point out that the National Health Acts Amendment Bill 1977 does not allow for the fact that fewer nursing home beds are required in many States because of the devotion of relatives who look after aged people in their own homes. I point out that this is especially so in the western suburbs of Melbourne where few nursing homes are available and where, so far as I can see, the Government has no power to initiate more nursing homes being made available in the area. Because of there being so few of these privately funded nursing homes- there are no government funded nursing homes in the area- many people are forced, when they are no longer able to look after their aged relatives at home, to go to the one public hospital in the western suburbs of Melbourne and throw themselves on the mercy of the social workers. The social workers are forced to take people into beds that are needed for acute medical cases. When the people have been built up in strength they are returned home, and the whole horrible cycle starts all over again. If that cycle does not start again in many cases the people are sent to mental asylums, which is no way for anybody to finish his life so far as I am concerned. 
The Government has to stop this piecemeal approach to the care of the aged and has to look at the problem as an all round problem of human beings and not of puppets. It has to take into account the fact that it does not just have to provide for more beds for elderly people; it has to provide a whole range of care for them. It has to make sure that nursing homes are provided in the areas where they are needed and not just provided by private enterprise because they are a profitable undertaking. That is what happens at the moment. Nursing homes are a very profitable enterprise for a lot of people. They spring up in areas where they will be profitable. In areas where nursing homes are needed the elderly are neglected. 
If more money was made available for more district nurses in some areas the nurses could spend more time with elderly people. More people could be kept in their homes. The nurses could keep more people healthy. They could keep more people human. More day care centres would alleviate the burden that is at the moment placed on nursing homes. One has to admit, having visited some of these nursing homes, that beds are taken up by people who do not need nursing home care. Beds are taken up by people who need physiotherpy and occupational therapy, people who need sheer social human contact to keep them alive, to keep them bright, to keep them sociable and to break their isolation. 
Government money should not be spent on nursing home beds when a quite separate sort of care is needed. This Bill encourages money being spent in the nursing home area. In many cases aged people, I repeat, are looked after by family and by neighbours. There comes a time when those people can no longer provide that sort of care. No system has been brought down by this Government accommodates those sorts of people, assists those sorts of people, and breaks the burden that they carry. Many people do not have the money to provide for private care; so they are forced into terrible situations which we all hear about and which elderly people are caught up in. 
In some areas Home Help and Meals on Wheels provide that sort of day to day care. In some areas Home Help and Meals on Wheels are carried out on a voluntary basis. I have sat in this House and have heard honourable senators berate people who do not provide meals on wheels at the weekend. They quite miss the point that the people who provide that sort of service are doing so on a voluntary basis and at the weekends go home to look after their own families. They had no right to demand that people provide this service seven days a week. 
I think that where elderly people are left in isolation somebody should demand that this sort of service be provided to them. One constituent in Victoria came to tell me about her elderly father in Norway who is over 80 years of age and who can look after himself in the Norwegian summer but who cannot look after himself in the Norwegian winter. In the winter time he goes into a permanent flat that he keeps where he has a bedroom, a living room and separate toilet facilities.  His  meals are provided. He has care during the winter when he cannot look after himself but in the summer time when he can look after himself quite well , he goes his own way. It is time that we in Australia were adult enough to provide that sort of care for our elderly people. It is time we remembered that elderly people in this community are human beings and should be looked after as such. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a third time. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969,I present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
.  Analytical Laboratory at Pymble, New South Wales. 
New Complex for the Antarctic Division Headquarters and for the Hobart Regional Laboratory of the Australian Government Analytical Laboratories, Kingston, Tasmania. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Earlier this year,  Mrs Molly  Dyer, an employee of the Victorian Aboriginal Legal Service, was informed by an officer of the Victorian branch of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs that a sum of approximately $25,000 had been allocated to provide for the support of an Aboriginal child care agency in Victoria.  Mrs Dyer  was voluntarily to maintain this important service. She has subsequently been advised that funding for this service has been withdrawn as a result of government cuts in Aboriginal affairs expenditure. Can the Minister advise why this important project was not funded and when it can expect to receive financial support from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs? 
I present the following petition from 84 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the delays between the announcements of each quarterly movement in the Consumer-Price Index and their application as a percentage increase in age and invalid pensions is excessive, unnecessary, discriminatory and a cause of economic distress. 
That proposals to amend the Consumer Price Index by eliminating particular items from the Index could adversely affect the value of future increases in aged and invalid pensions and thus be a cause of additional economic hardship to pensioners. 
The foregoing facts impel your petitioners to ask the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to: 
Require each quarterly percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index to be applied to age and invalid and similar pensions as from the pension pay day nearest following the date of announcement of the CPI movement. 
Give an open assurance to all aged and invalid pensioners that any revision of the items comprising the Consumer Price Index will in no way result in reductions in the value of any future entitlements to pensioners. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. The Government has seen fit to supply all primary and secondary schools in Victoria with sets of the papers put out as the Government's uranium decision and tabled as such in this Parliament. I ask, therefore: Are all schools in Australia being supplied with this material? What is the cost to the Government in supplying such material which gives its side of the uranium question? 
I rise to support the motion which has been moved by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. In so doing I must say to the Government that I accept that it is concerned about the unemployment and it is concerned about the unemployment of young people in this country, as it has to be because unemployment of young people is creeping even into its ranks in that even in areas where people were always assured of jobs, such as in companies, family companies, firms or with friends, young people now are finding some difficulty in obtaining employment. I could not help thinking that the difference between the Government and the Opposition, when it comes to the unemployment of young people in this country, was summed up in a remark made by  Senator Durack  earlier in the debate when he said that the unemployment of youth has to be seen as just part of the general unemployment picture in this country. We in the Opposition see the unemployment of youth as being far different from the general run of unemployment in this country because of the far reaching consequences that can spring from that unemployment- the sorts of consequences that were referred to in the poverty and education report which stated: 
As Commission research shows, people who are unemployed for long periods are prone to a sense of despair and defeat. Apart from the purely economic impact of unemployment, other effects included 'disturbance of the person's relationships with his family, other people and the community at large, and apparently severe effects on psychological and even physical well being'. These people saw themselves as being excluded not only from work but from society. 
That is a terrible thing to say about any human being. It is a terrible future for those people to look forward to; but when one remembers that the human beings can be only 15 or 16 years old one starts to understand why the Opposition feels that this is a matter of great public importance and urgency. Those consequences of unemployment on youngsters can go much further, as was said in a seminar here in Canberra by  Dr Brian  Scott and reported in today's  Canberra Times.  The newspaper report reads: 
By 1990 we could easily have serious echoes, at the political level, of the frustration of today's young unemployed ', he said. 
 Remember that many angry young men of the 1 930s who walked the streets looking vainly for work in later life sought to introduce radical changes into a political system which they felt was heartless and unfair. 
That is exactly the feeling of youngsters who have left school or who are about to leave school today. We know what happened in Europe in the 1930s. We know how people were able to manipulate that feeling of despair, that feeling of anger with a society that they felt had left them out. There are many youngsters around today who feel exactly the same way- that society has by-passed them. 
There is a generation of youngsters whose future worries me very much. There are kids who today have left school and who cannot get jobs, and as the weeks, the months and, it appears, the years go by and they still do not have jobs their chances of ever working again become slimmer because if the economy picks up and there are jobs available for youngsters the employers are not going to take on people aged 19, 20 or 22 years when they can take on youngsters aged 15, 16 or 17 years whom they do not have to pay so much. So, where is this generation that is unemployed today ever going to find work? What is its future going to be? Is it going to finish up- as did the generation in the 1930s in Europe- rebelling against society, hitting out against society and changing the society that left it behind? No matter what schemes are afoot at the moment or what plans the Government is talking about, nobody appears to be looking at the problem of these young people and what their future is to be. 
When we talk about youngsters in our sort of society, knowing how bad it is for some of them in the areas in which we all move, imagine how bad it must be for Aboriginal children in society. Where are they going to find jobs? Another group in society that will be completely locked out or will finish up with all the filthy, low-paid jobs that nobody ever wants to do is the children who were bora outside Australia. As junior females in society are the worst hit of the lot, presumably the junior females in the migrant communities will be the worst hit of any. In May 1977, 19.5 per cent of the females between 15 and 19 years of age looking for jobs were born outside Australia. One wonders what their future will be. I have yet to see what plans the Government has to give them some sort of chance in life. 
The children who are still at school have an apathy about them. Teachers tell us that the children do not try, that they are lazy and that they do not seem to care what happens to them. These are children who are tentative about life outside school walls. They have heard from older brothers and sisters and friends of the effort to get a job and of the 10, 17 and 42 jobs that people have applied for and still not been successful. One can imagine how much value those people put on themselves if they apply for 42 jobs and still do not get one. The children at school are still worried about what will happen to them in the future. No matter what their teachers say to them they cannot promise them a job any more. Teachers are saying to the children now: 'It is no good thinking you will come back to school. We are not a child minding organisation. We are a school. You are supposed to learn. If you finish with learning- as many children of 16 and 17 years of age do- the place for you is in the community'. Those children do not have a place in the education system or in society. Their parents look at them and wonder why the children do not try to get a job. The parents do not understand how hard it is for the children to get jobs. I have heard of no government schemes to help these children. 

 Senator Durack said that one of the causes of unemployment was the changed attitude of young people. I do not believe that young people's ideas have changed. From my observation, they have not. Young people today try as hard as or harder than young people in earlier generations tried. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has brought down a report which says that the young are not work shy. A newspaper article on the report states: 
A major international study on youth unemployment demolishes many of the criticisms made of the young unemployed. 
Claims that the young are less industrious and less willing to shoulder responsibility are challenged in the report by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. 
Surveys conducted around the world for the OECD showed that most young people had a fairly positive attitude towards work. 
The problem arises when the young people cannot find that work. It is intensified by the fact that most of the unemployed and the new job seekers lack the specific skills needed for the new and different sorts of jobs that will come in a new society. Young people are not being trained for that. They may not be in the position to get the training. 
The world has changed. There is not so much work around as there used to be. This Government does not seem to have taken cognisance of the fact nor has it dreamt up schemes to cope with that development. This Government has encouraged greater mechanisation by increasing the investment allowances and thus cutting out a great range of employment that used to be available to young people. Once industry wanted untrained people. It said that it wanted to get the people and train them in its own ways. Once it wanted people for apprenticeships. Now it does not. Once it could get a lot of cheap labour out of apprentices, but now it does not want apprentices. Once it liked to take people in and teach them on the job. Now the jobs do not exist in which such people can be trained. What is the Government doing about that? 

 Senator Walters last week suggested that in Tasmania jobs were available picking soft fruit or doing heavy labouring. That is not much of a future to look forward to. In any case, are those the sorts of jobs to give young girls? One in five young girls has no chance of getting a job in Australia at the moment. If those figures reflect the position in the cities, one can imagine what the situation is like in country towns. What hopes have these young girls? Yet the Government runs advertisements like this one I hold in my hand entitled 'Helping Australia Work'. They are run by the Commonwealth Employment Service and state that employment vacancies are required for apprentices, process workers and sales girls. Where in any country town are jobs available for girls as apprentices? Where are the jobs for process workers or sales girls? Sales girls could once get jobs in places like Coles or Woolworths. Those companies now have one person sitting at a cash register at the exit from the store. Even that area of jobs has gone for young people and especially for young girls. Instead of spending the money on those sorts of advertisements that are blatant untruths, the Government could have put that money into some sort of scheme to create jobs for the children who have not them. It is not proper to suggest, as was once the case, that they stay at school and work hard, and that the world will be theirs. They stayed at school. It does not matter how well they did. It does not matter how hard they worked. It does not matter how good their qualifications. The jobs are not there. 
This Government even cut the unemployment benefits for young workers. They do not get any increase whenever anybody else receiving a benefit gets an increase due to movements in the cost of living. Yet the OECD report stated scathingly that the payment of unemployment benefits must be looked upon as a 'residual measure' and as an 'acknowledgement of society's failure to provide either employment or a substitute activity with the potential of leading to employment'. The Government has immense numbers of schemes going. It has schemes for keeping children quiet. It has baby minding schemes. They are not schemes that will supply jobs for these children. That is what we have to do. We have to give not only training but also jobs for the people to go into when the training is completed. In so many areas, people do six months training, which is fine, and at the end of that period no jobs are available for them. Utter despair must set in when people have been trained and still society does not want them. 
What is the future to be? What will the Government do about providing jobs? For instance, girls in country towns used to be able to get jobs in hospitals. City girls used to be able to get jobs in hospitals. This week a Victorian newspaper reported that most major public hospitals say that they will have to cut staff and reduce patient services to keep within their budgets. This is another area in which jobs are not now available for young girls. Why can this Government not use the muscle it has?  Senator Cotton  was quoted as saying: 
Market forces must take account of the Government's more recent 'Put Australia First' campaign, or the Government will intervene to see that they do. 
Why can the Government not intervene to see that jobs are made available for the young people in this society? Why can there not be a greater increase in apprenticeships? We will need skilled tradesmen of all sorts in the future. Why can a scheme not be brought in actually to give children apprenticeships and not just pay employers to entice them to take on apprentices. The Government should put some of the responsibility back on the employers to take children in as apprentices. Why can the Government itself not expand its own schemes and its own works program to take in more apprentices than it does now? It should not just take in what it might require but should extend greatly the intake of apprentices in various areas. 
The Government has to use the muscle it has- if, as  Senator Cotton  says, it has that muscle- to make sure that jobs are available and that there are not just job schemes dreamt up to keep children quiet. The support scheme that was brought in is supplying some sort of employment for children who have been unemployed for six months. What happens to those who do not get jobs and who do not attract the sort of subsidy for employers to give them jobs? Where are the schemes to supply jobs for them? What about the kids who have had a job and lost it, who were sacked or whose jobs went out of existence. The employers may decide that after six months they will sack the young person whose employment was subsidised and get another one and so attract another subsidy. What is happening about that? What sort of scheme is the Government bringing in to help those sort of children? 
Government initiative has to be put into works programs that will provide jobs. It is no good the Government saying to us that it was the Labor Party that caused unemployment. It is no good saying that unemployment is world wide. These are our children. It is our future. We have to find jobs for them now. In six months, 12 months or two years it will be too late for many of them. The chance will have gone. The Government has to initiate works programs that will provide jobs so that we do not finish up with the sorts of problems facing us that we know now face these youngsters, including great despair, suicide- we have to face that development- drunkenness, drug taking. The future prospect is that of a vast untrained mass of people who have never worked and who, therefore, may never be able to work. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
I ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether it is true that no spark plugs are produced in Australia and that they all have to be imported. As this puts Australia in a most vulnerable position, what initiatives are being taken by the Government to remedy the situation? 
I present the following petition from 72 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members  of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Australian Government employees strenuously oppose the provisions of the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill first introduced in the House of Representatives on 8 December 1976. The basis for opposition includes the following reasons: 
1 ) The grounds constituting 'due cause' for termination of services of tenured staff are expanded beyond those already available in existing legislation thereby introducing subjective discretionary powers which are inconsistent with career service expectations and entitlements; 
The Bill relegates to subordinate legislation or administrative direction matters affecting substantive rights of employees including the scale of compensation, the composition and powers of the appellate tribunal, and the criteria upon which services may be terminated: 
Existing rights of reinstatement in tenured employment was abrogated by the Bill; 
Agreement has not been reached on a number of matters which should have been finalised before any attempt to introduce legislation. These include: An arbitral determination on redundancy arrangements; benefits; procedures; 
As currently drafted the Bill overrides entitlements under arbitration awards. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should reject passage of any legislation to extend powers of compulsory retirement of Australian Government employees unless and until any variation has been agreed with staff representatives. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. The Minister intends to grant an extra $2m to level 1 and level 2 schools in 1978. At what level of resources, compared with the non-government schools average, are these schools operating? How much does this mean in total to a level 1 school such as Melbourne Grammar? 
I rise to oppose this legislation. I think it is a cheap political gimmick to hide the real economic conditions of this country and to give this Government what it thinks will be an easy ride into an election.  Senator Walters  said with some pride earlier that she had worked in the dirtiest of conditions for 70 hours a week for 18s a week pay. There were a lot of latter-day Florence Nightingales like  Senator Walters  because they, like Florence Nightingale, had somebody to keep them. They worked in slave labour conditions, they had appalling pay and appalling conditions until intelligent women worked in the area and moved to reform it. They worked to give women who had the real talents to be nurses- not the lady bountifuls- the right to work as nurses in decent conditions for decent pay. They could not afford to be martyrs like  Senator Walters  but they wanted to be nurses. Until they had decent pay and conditions they could not work as nurses so they formed a union. 
If they were to form a union now and demand better conditions and better pay- pay commensurate with the skills they use in their job- and were to take action to ensure that they obtained those better conditions and better pay under this legislation they could find their union deregistered.  Senator Walters  and her friends say that that is right. Nurses could have to go back to being dependent on greedy hospital boards and rapacious State governments; they could have to go back to working as slaves for little pay. Presumably, because the work they perform is an essential service, they are not allowed to ask to be paid properly for their work. I wonder how  Senator Walters  and people like her would have got on if they had had to house, feed and clothe six kids on 18s a week pay for their 70 hours' work a week. 
This Bill will allow this Government to force women workers back to working for the least possible pay that industry will pay them. Already this Government has claimed that women demanding equal pay is a cause of inflation. For 23 years a Liberal-Country Party Government allowed women to be exploited and to work for the worst pay in the worst conditions. A Labor Government provided equal pay for work of equal value. Now, with the new powers of deregistration contained in this legislation, equal pay for work of equal value will go out the window. Presumably nobody can do anything about it. Thousands of working women are dependent on awards for their legal entitlements. This Bill could be used to reduce the standards of these women. Unions are the only backstop working women have as a reference for wages and conditions. In many cases they have been a pretty poor backstop, but they are the only backstop the women have. If the unions are deregistered, they will have no help and no backstop whatsoever. 
The Anti-Discrimination Board in New South Wales has said that most of its complaints have come from women in industry and that this is really the area in which women need most protection. What sort of protection are they going to get if their unions are deregistered and the women have no reference point. If they fight and use the only weapon working people have, namely, to withdraw their labour, they will be penalised. If a group of women were really concerned about and fought for, say, child care facilities and their union backed them, it could be deregistered. If women, say, objected to producing munitions for the next war and went on strike because they had a moral feeling about the material they were producing, their whole union could be deregistered. If they complained about their low pay, bad conditions of work, or ill treatment they would have nowhere to go if their union had been deregistered and they would have no money for legal assistance. They would be left at the mercy of the employer in industry. That is what the Government wants. What about their individual rights then,  Senator Messner? 
Why have legislation which will create a haven for scabs? Why have legislation which will destroy trade unions? It is because, by dividing people against each other, the Government thinks it will then be able to manipulate them to wherever it wants them to be. Honourable senators opposite talk about shop stewards running the Latrobe Valley strike. The vote down in the Valley to continue the strike was 2,500 to 20, after 10 weeks on the grass. Against all the pressure of a distressed family they voted not to go back. 
-I suppose they had their arms bent up behind their backs and were told: Say no, say no'? They are men with a lot to lose. They are men who have never been ahead. They way it looks at the moment they will never be ahead. They have one asset, namely, the hands with which they work. On the Channel 7 program  Willesee at Seven  a poll was conducted over 2 days. Willesee asked people: 'Do you think the Latrobe workers should be paid more?'. Forty-eight thousand people said yes and 22,000 said no out of 70,000 phone calls. That is how the people of Victoria feel about the workers in the Latrobe Valley and about the justice of their cause. 
The Government supports companies which demand a return for their capital. The Government says that if the companies put up the capital and the expertise they are entitled to a fair return. We are not quite sure how large that return has become, but that is what the Government believes. So are workers entitled to a fair return for the only capital they have, which is the work they can do with their hands. They are entitled to go out for the highest return for their investment. Honourable members opposite sit there and smirk because men have the guts to go without for 10 weeks and to demand some sort of wage justice. All the Government can do is to bring in this fascist legislation so it can tell people what to do. As  Senator Walters  said, the Government will not beg people to go back to work; it will tell them to go back to work. The way the Government is heading, it will be telling them to go back to work with a machine gun in the middle of their backs. That is what the Government wants this country to come to. It will decide how unions will spend their funds. It will decide how union property will be disposed of. So much for the Government's brand of democracy. 
Why does the Government not apply this same feeling to the firms which create artificial shortages to promote increased prices? Why does it not promote those ideas to firms which cut corners on conditions and safety features? Why does it not apply those sorts of arguments to firms which cheat on just wages or on the taxes they should pay? No, that area is sacrosanct. The Government has the nerve to say that the unions run the country. Let us look at these four gentlemen:  Sir Ian  McLennan,  Sir Ian  Potter,  Sir Brian  Inglis and Rod Carnegie. What makes these four people special? I quote from a pamphlet put out by the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations. 
Well,  Sir Ian  McLennan is the  chairman  of Australia's biggest company, BHP.  Sir Ian  Potter sits on the boards of 1 9 companies.  Sir Brian  Inglis is managing director of the Ford Motor Company. And Rod Carnegie heads Australia's biggest mining company, the British owned CRA Ltd. Together with a few dozen other top managers and directors they control a huge proportion of Australian industry, employing millions of workers. They're the decision makers in the 200 giant corporations that together account for over half of our industrial output. 
Who decides the prices? Who makes the policies? Who controls the wages in respect of which this Government applies pressure in the courts? Huge funds are spent on propaganda. Who has the power? The poor little shop stewards down in the Valley fighting for the livelihood and the life of their people, or people like those four who sit back and manipulate little people and do not really care if they do sit on the grass for 10 weeks. So many companies are saying at the moment: This strike has been a God-send in some ways! They have been able to put off their men on a fortnight's holiday at a cheaper rate than they would have to pay at Christmas and they have been able to reduce the great backlog of goods on the floor that they cannot sell. Why can they not sell those goods? It is because this Government has reduced the power of people to buy. Government supporters have the nerve to blame shop stewards in the Latrobe Valley and not the people who really have the power. I invite honourable senators to remember the golden rule. It is whoever has the gold that makes the rules. Those are the people the Government supports. 
Honourable senators opposite say that excessive strikes cause our economic problems. I quote to them a gentleman who is close to their hearts, the Premier of Victoria. In February this year he told a news conference in the United States that reports of strikes and industrial unrest in Australia are exaggerated. In 1976 wages in Australia rose by 11.6 per cent. prices rose by 14.4 per cent and profits rose by 22 per cent. So who is kidding whom about who runs this country for whose benefit? Who is greedy? Is it shop stewards and the little people in the Latrobe Valley who want to live at least something like human beings, or is it the people who screw them for every penny they have? How high do honourable senators opposite want that profit percentage to go before they decide that industry as its fair share of the cake? Why do they not take away the fascist legislation that they have introduced to undermine the ordinary working people in this country and give decent men a fair go? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Is it a fact that the Government has rejected a proposal by the Commonwealth Bank supporting the creation of the Commonwealth Development Bank as a bank in its own right? Has the Government rejected the proposal because the Development Bank would no longer be a lender of last resort and would be in a position to make loans without customers being rejected first by the trading banks? If this is not the reason, what are the reasons for rejecting the Commonwealth Bank proposals? 
I rise briefly to speak to this report in the hope that it might be debated further by the Senate at some time when honourable senators have had time to study it. It is a report of which we want the Government and the community to take special notice. We truly believe that Australian society is drunk at the moment; we believe that Australians are drowning in drugs. We believe that at the moment men might be the greater drunks, but they are addicted also to tobacco; that at the moment women might be in even greater danger with the use of analgesics and sedatives, but they are turning increasingly also to tobacco and alcohol; that our children are turning increasingly to alcohol and tobacco and we are afraid that they are now turning also to cannabis. 
I dissent from this report in part because I believe the main report is weakened by a less than firm commitment to a policy which will pursue a drug free society. I believe that the law does have a part to play in bringing about a drug free society. I believe that the law, applied with firmness, fairness and relevance, is one form of control which society needs. I believe that up to this point of time the lack of firmness, fairness and relevance in applying the law from State to State has allowed an air of unreality to creep into the control of cannabis. I do not want any children or young people sent to gaol or severely handicapped because they have smoked one marihuana cigarette. By the same token, I do not want other people hiding behind those children. I do not believe that calling an act an offence and imposing a fine does anything but beg the question in this area. 
I believe that the effects of cannabis intoxication are very real and would seem to be a very real hazard, especially when combined with alcohol. I believe that at the moment there is insufficient evidence of the effect cannabis has on people. We just do not know the extent of its effect. Until we do know this I believe we would be foolish to play around with something about which we do not know enough. I do not believe that we in this society need further drugs or further props. In our report we emphasised that drug use is derived from the basic mores of our society. It is not just a problem of deviance; it is a problem with which society must come to grips. 
One of the frightening things in the report is that analgesics which until now have not been seen as a problem are affecting the health of a great number of women in the community who have no idea of the problem they are causing themselves. A cup of tea, a Bex and a good lie down has become part of the folklore in Australia. In very many ways this is a formula for these women's death and they do not know it. 
We do not need any more acceptance of drugs. I should hate to think that before we knew it such things as cannabis had become as accepted in our society as some analgesic tablets and powders have become. Australia must stop before it is too late. This report gives the community some idea of the extent of the problem at the moment. To point up that problem I shall quote from a circular put out by the Working Women's Centre which refers to a survey conducted by the New South Wales Department of Health in 1971. It states: 
Alcohol: Approximately 84 per cent of males and 80 per cent of females drink alcohol. About 22 per cent of drinkers consume alcohol every day or most days of the week. 
Analgesics: 66.5 per cent of males and 80.4 per cent of females are regular users of painkillers. Most are moderate users although 1 1.6 per cent of those surveyedtook analgesics every day or some days in the week. 
Sedatives/Tranquillizers: 10 per cent of men and 23.6 per cent of women are regular users and 30.5 per cent claim to be taking them every day. 
In Australia, where unemployment is growing, it seems to me that there is a fertile field for people in despair and depression to turn to some of these drugs. There does not seem to be anything else but terrible despair at the end of that road. A recent study of workers in Melbourne showed that the greatest group of workers under stress, dissatisfied with their jobs and life in general, were semi-skilled women workers. Therefore, that is a group which is at great risk from the increasing use of drugs in society. A study in Sydney recently showed that 14 per cent of the total of 1,857 housewives interviewed took analgesics daily. Most preferred powders. The reasons given for regular aspirin ingestion were related to age and social class, daily headaches, tension, habit and to cope with the family. These were the most common reasons, particularly from respondents in lower socio-economic groups. Again, these are people who are at great risk. It seems to me that society and, in this instance, governments, must take note and do something about the risk which these people are taking.  Dr Gerald  Milner, the Director of the Alcohol and Drug Dependence Persons Unit in Victoria, from whom the Committee took evidence, pointed out that our analgesic problem was between 20 and 80 times greater than the problem in the United States of America at the moment. 
There is one problem with Senate Committee reports. Committee members spend long weeks hearing evidence and agonising over a report. Then what happens to it? In many instances- I venture to say in most instances- it finishes up in a pigeon hole and nobody ever reads it or hears of it again. We feel that this report has brought to light a real problem that needs immediate attention if we really care about the health of our community. We believe that the community can deal with this problem if it wants to do so. It is a problem that can be coped with if people want to cope with it and do something about it and do not want to bury their heads in the sand, or have another glass of whisky or another cigarette and think that they will deal with it tomorrow. To give the community an impetus to deal with the problem, governments must take a lead and make a stand. I hope that the Government will take great note of this report and will do something to put its recommendations into effect. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  It being two hours after the time fixed for the meeting of the Senate, pursuant to Standing Order 127 the Orders of the Day will be called on. 
Motion (by  Senator Durack)  agreed to: 
That consideration of the Orders of the Day be postponed until after further consideration of the motion moved by  Senator Baume  to take note of the report of the Standing Committee on Social Welfare. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecom.muncations a question following upon a question asked by  Senator Primmer  regarding the Australian Broadcasting Commission in Victoria removing  Mr Terry  Lane from a talkback program at 8.30 a.m. each week day morning. As this has brought almost unanimous criticism from both the community and ABC staff members and as this program had the highest ratings in that time slot, thus indicating its popularity, what steps can members ofthe public take to indicate to the ABC the sort of program that they want produced for their entertainment and enlightenment? 
Is the Minister for Social Security aware of the application by the Geelong Mentally Handicapped Childrens Welfare Association for subsidies for equipment at their sheltered workshop at Karingal? Is she aware that for a building, put up at a cost of half a million dollars, her Department will provide only $1,500 of the $21,406 requested for subsidies? Is this an indication that the two to- one subsidy on equipment is no longer a policy of her Department? If it is a policy to continue these subsidies, will the Minister reconsider the application made for Karingal? 
-My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I presume that the Minister knows that yesterday an allegation was made to the Windscale inquiry in England, an inquiry into aspects of nuclear power industry, by the widow of a former director of the Lucas Heights atomic energy establishment that 100 lb of pure plutonium and 300 tonnes of highly radioactive waste was dumped at Pine Gap and Maralinga. On 9 August last this Government announced that it was sending a team of experts to those areas to investigate such matters. Has the Government yet received that report? If so, will the Minister make available the results. If the report is not available yet, can we be told when it will be made available? 
-My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government. Is he aware that a recent report from Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd stated that the demand for uranium will depend on the rate of growth in nuclear power generating capacity and advances in nuclear technology; that m the United States of America there have been only four orders for new nuclear plants in 1 977, two for tentative preliminary contracts only; and that Howard Winterson, Vice-President of Combustion Engineering in America has said recently: 'In about two years you will see this business disintegrate'? Will these facts be taken into account before $9m of the taxpayers money is made available to Conzinc Riotinto for its Mary Kathleen operation? 
I address a . question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. As a recent report of the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd states that by 1980-81 the value of uranium exports could account for about 0.7 per cent of Australia's total exports or about 1.7 per cent of the total value of all minerals exported and as the Fox report states that uranium exports could represent some 3 per cent of the total exports of 1984-85, rising to 5 per cent by 1989-90, and goes on to say that the export of uranium would not be expected to lead to a marked improvement in Australia's current account in the short or medium term, I ask: To what extent does the Government intend to encourage and support the uranium industry? 
-I present the following petition from 15 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned students, parents, teachers and citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the report of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations on Employment Prospects by Industry and Occupation, July 1977, p. 197, states that, in respect of Stenographers /Secretaries: 
With the exception of new business college graduates the demand for less experienced and less skilled people in Sydney is in balance with the supply. 
Business College graduates are exactly what the market wants and employers demand. 
In one of the few fields of employment shown by the report to be under-supplied, the Government is effectively reducing the ability of business colleges to train enough sectretaries and stenographers for the positions which are available. 
The sixteen technical colleges in the Metropolitan area of Sydney which accommodate 3,220 students in day secretarial studies do not have the capacity to accommodate more than six per cent of the 243S students at non-State business colleges in the same area who will be disadvantaged by the Government's recent decision to withdraw fees subsidies and living allowances from the end of 1977. 1977 School leavers who wish to undertake a course in Secretarial Studies and thus ensure they obtain a worthwhile position of employment on graduation are being forced to pay fees of the order of $ 1 ,400 for the year and also to forgo TEAS living allowances. 
The Government's decision is unfair, unjust, discriminatory, unreasonable and capricious. 
Your , petitioners, therefore, humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government will act immediately to undertake a thorough review of the position of non-State business colleges, guarantee interim funding forthwith and reverse its decision. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
As the petition exceeds 250 words in length I do not propose to ask that it be read. 
Petition received. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Heath taken note of the fact that large Victorian public hospitals are so short of funds that they are cutting back on drugs, reducing services, putting strict controls on the use of linen and are not putting on relief staff over the Christmas period? Is the Government concerned about the situation? What does it intend to do to alleviate the position? 
-I present the following petition from 37 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens respectfully showeth: 
That, in the light of the Fox reports, the Federal Government should immediately initiate a five-year moratorium on uranium mining. This moratorium is essential for public consideration and debate. It is also to allow time for the implementation of the other recommendations of the Fox report, particularly the development of a national energy policy, incorporating energy conservation and the development of benign alternate energy sources. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that your honourable House will take action to initiate the moratorium and to safeguard the democratic right of the people to make the decision on this issue. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 13 October 1977: 
How many persons were registered as unemployed in the employment areas of (a) Ballarat; (b) Bendigo; (c) Boronia; (d) Box Hill; (e) Dandenong; (0 Frankston; (g) Greensborough; (h) Mentone; (i) Moorabbin; (j) Morwell; (k) Oakleigh; (1)Ringwood; (m) Springvale and (n) Warragul at the end of (i) August 1975, August 1976 and August 1977; and (ii) September 1975, September 1976 and September 1977. 
What was the percentage of (a) males; and (b) females: (i) under 21 years of age, and (ii) 21 years of age and over. 
What were the principal work categories of the persons registered as unemployed. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. By way of explanation. I state that a big Victorian private health fund claims that it was told by the Federal Department of Health to increase its rates for basic medical care substantially above what the fund considered necessary. The fund says that it did as it was told and raised its rates when it took into account the deregistration powers of that Department. Has the Federal Department of Health instructed other funds to increase their charges? To which of those other funds has the instruction been given? What is the basis of the Department 's instruction to funds to raise their rates over what the funds themselves have considered necessary? 
I rise to comment on that portion of the GovernorGeneral's Speech which indicated the Government's concern with women in this country. I know that to a lot of people this is a boring subject. They consider it divisive and rather silly and believe that there is an idiotic fringe which indulges in it and that every time we have a debate on a subject some silly woman has to stand up and say where women stand. However, I think it is time that people as serious as senators remembered that women are people and acknowledged that governments, employers, trade unions and husbands do not take seriously the very real problems of women in this community. I was disappointed to find that the only paragraph in the Governor-General's Speech which dealt with women directly was the following: 
My Government will continue its efforts to improve the status of women in Australian society and a permanent National Women's Advisory Council will be established. 
I would have thought that we were all very well aware that in the current situation women are rapidly being reduced in status and that this country needs something much more than a permanent council to give them status, maintain their status and raise their status as citizens and human beings. On this side of the Parliament we are certainly concerned with unemployment but I would have thought that even this Government would have taken into account the effect that continuing high unemployment has on women in the community. Not only has this Government up to this point blamed the right to equal pay, which women won under the Whitlam Government, for the high rate of inflation that we have been suffering but also it has peddled the myth that married women in the work force are the cause of youth unemployment. The reality is that the women who work have to work so that their families may survive. To maintain the economic and social needs of Australian families, families need two incomes and one of those income earners is a female. If under present circumstances that female can find a job she is confined to a restricted area of employment, usually the least attractive, the one needing the least training, the dullest, the most repetitious, the dirtiest and the worst paid of any area in the work force. 
If she cannot find a job, as so many cannot and this number is increasing, then she who has been contributing to the productivity of this country is not treated as a person who has been contributing and so is entitled to the unemployment benefit while she is waiting for the next job but gets no unemployment benefit. As a result the family income is cut in half. She pays full taxation, gets no tax relief for the money she must pay to have her children minded while she works, gets minimal assistance for her retraining or even her initial training for a better, more fulfilling, and perhaps better paid job. Once she is an adult she cannot train as an apprentice even though when she was young she did not have the opportunity to take up an apprenticeship if it was available then in any field other than hairdressing. If her children are ill she is not entitled to any leave so that she may comfort and care for them. Neither is her husband, so it is a choice between leave without pay, which terrifies people in these days of unemployment because it might mean losing their job, or the kiddies are left at home by themselves or are sent to school ill while mum and dad worry themselves sick at work. In very few cases is she entitled to maternity leave, and it would appear that in the few areas where it is available at the moment, such as in the Commonwealth Public Service, it will be taken away shortly by this Government because it is supposed by some people to be a rort but more importantly because senior public servants, most of whom are men, dislike the provision intensely. She rarely can get superannuation and when she can usually it is not on equal grounds with her male counterparts. 
When I consider the fact that 41.9 per cent of all married women 1 5 years and over were in the labour force in May 1977 and that those women were doing two or perhaps three jobs- being a housewife, mother and worker at the one time- I am tempted to say: 'Stop; give it up. Give up the frantic struggle to keep doing all those jobs'. We hear people maintaining that women should stay at home and mind their children, that they should let others do their jobs. I am tempted to say: 'Do just that. Until you can get some justice let them do it all themselves and let them pay your husband the sort of wage that will cover the needs of you and your family without you being sold into slavery all your life. Stay home and let one man 's wage pay for all the family necessities as once it did '. Trade unions, governments, and employers have let one man's wage drift so far back that it will no longer keep a wife and family and so we have the family income made up of two people's wages, and in my opinion one of those people gets less than justice in the market place. How would society like it if all those women stayed at home? How would it cope? 
How could industry, which thinks that it can entice women out to work when it needs a cheap labour force and send them back to the kitchen when there is a recession, get on without those workers? 
The May 1977 figures show that 43.4 per cent of all women 15 years and over were in the work force in Australia. These women made up 35.6 per cent of the total labour force. At that time 323,300 unmarried women- women who had never married, were widowed, divorced or permanently separated- were heads of families. That figure did not include the women who had sick or alcoholic husbands and spent their lives maintaining their husbands and families. The figures at that time showed that in Australia 36 per cent of families had one income while 42 per cent of families had two incomes. So if the working women of this country stayed home what would happen? What would happen in the general manufacturing area where women comprise the bulk of the work force? What would happen to the retail sales area? What would happen to primary teaching? Who would type? Who would be the clerical assistants and receptionists? Who would nurse? Who would be the waitresses, kitchen hands and machinists? Yet all those jobs are essential to keep the industries and the wheels of this country moving. Nevertheless, women can still be subjected to receiving less than equal pay and to having less than equal provisions and opportunities in the work force. Women now make up over 32 per cent of the work force. In some manufacturing areas they total 70 per cent of the work force. If they went on strike and stayed at home at the kitchen sink, this country would collapse. So I believe that the Government should pay due regard to them as adults contributing to this country's wealth. 
In August last year, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced the terms of reference for a study under the chairmanship of  Sir John  Crawford into the problems of structural adjustment. But those terms of reference did not seek details of the human and economic problems involved in transferring human and other resources from one sector to another. When one thinks of the problems for women who have the responsibilities of home and children as well as work, one is entitled to ask why those matters were not studied. Can female workers move from one place to another? If a male worker is retrained for work in an industry based on the other side of the city to where he lives or in another city, what happens to his working wife? Evidently, women are to be regarded as working solely to earn pin money. 
Should we not see them as workers making a real contribution of which account must be taken? Why should not all workers- male and female- be entitled equally to the unemployment benefit, to training in all areas of work and to retraining. If this was the case, when women had fulfilled that most important and satisfying role of mother, they could contribute during the 30 years of vigorous life they have left. Why do they not have the right to provide for their old age in an independent way through superannuation enjoying exactly the same benefits as their male counterparts? 
We need legislation to ensure that women are not 'last in first out' as is happening at the moment- last taken on and the first most easily sacked- because, it is argued, they have a husband to keep them. In many cases they do not have a husband to keep them and even if they do the husband cannot afford to keep them. Why do we not have legislation to ensure that they have some rights in respect of promotion as well as the same rights as men to be selected for a job? They should not be nodded at and passed over in preference for a male. Why are there not training schemes for women in areas where there is a serious and increasing lack of skilled workers, thus enabling women to fill those vacancies? The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  has said that we hide our heads in the sand, that there is a shortage of skilled workers, that these positions cannot be filled by Australians and that skilled replacements must be brought from overseas. We bring these workers from overseas when we have independent capable people here who are made to feel less than equal, less than human, less than adult, unneeded and unnecessary because we do not provide training in areas where they could be employed as skilled workers. 
In war time when a need exists for skilled workers we can institute programs that in a very short period turn out qualified people with the essential skills that are needed. Why cannot those sorts of programs be put into effect here and now and why cannot women play an equal part and have an equal opportunity to participate? There are many women in the community who want to work and who need to work but who do not even know some of these jobs exist. They do not even know what the worker in a particular area does. Why is there not some sort of imaginative information program so that women can select a satisfying job, decide to have a go at it and train for it? In this case we would have a happy worker, a happy human being- someone who is doing a very useful piece of work- contributing to the country. 
There is a need for the community to take seriously the necessity for many more community based child care centres. I know that child care' has become another expression which people tune out of their thinking in the same way as they do when one talks about women 's rights. But despite all that has been said in this place about child care needs, pitifully few child care centres are available. Children are still being locked up in rooms and tied to table legs. There are still grandmothers, barely able to look after themselves, caring for the children of working mothers. At the moment these difficulties place tremendous pressure on women. But what is the Government doing to relieve some of the terrible pressures put on women when they are unemployed? What is it doing about the effects that these problems have on the health of the family and the community. 
We already know that more women are suffering heart attacks than was previously the case because of the pressure of being in the work force and of performing two jobs. But what will be the result of the worry caused if they are unemployed and the family income is halved? What will happen if their husband is unemployed? What of the worry caused by the collapse of his morale and the lack of family income? What about the unemployment facing school leavers and the loss of the bright promise of those children? What about the permanent damage that is being done to so many of them? What effect will all this pressure have on the health of the women of Australia? We know that people in this situation turn to props. They turn to alcohol. They drink, they smoke and they take analgesics. More women will drink, smoke and take analgesics because of this pressure that is being put on them. They will do so to meet the need to alleviate the pressure. 
Some research of a minimal nature shows that, when women take the pill and drink alcohol, the alcohol becomes very dangerous because it stays in their systems longer. Research also shows that smoking by women who take the pill is extremely dangerous. Many women take the pill because they have to stay in the work force. They cannot afford to have children. This pressure is putting them in an intolerable position. We know that analgesics can cause terrible damage to kidneys and are evidently, according to a small degree of research, a factor in stillbirths. Where is there evidence that this Government is prepared to sponsor urgently major research in those areas to find out really what the effects are and what can be done? Where is there evidence that this Government is prepared to sponsor major research in many areas of health that concern women generally? 
The pill has been introduced to free women. It has been introduced to free women from having children, so that they can be sold into slavery all their lives, doing two jobs I might suggest. But does anyone care that thousands of women have been used as guinea pigs because there are so many effects ofthe pill that are not understood? The need for research on this matter to be speeded up should be a matter of urgency because the health of almost half of the population ofthe country could be in question. The Government is showing concern about our near zero population growth and the ageing population of this country. It is concerned that there should be more babies born to Australian mothers. But what is the Government doing to investigate urgently the effects of chemicals and sprays on the foetus and the causes of deformities and stillbirths? Is the Government prepared to investigate the effect on mothers and babies of births induced for the convenience of doctors who want to sleep all night or play golf each Wednesday? All of these factors could be endangering the health of future generations. The GovernorGeneral in his Speech said: 
. my Government will strive to realise the hope and vision of every Australian- an Australia rich in opportunity for all its people to live the life they choose, fully and freely. 
If the Government truly believes those words it will take urgent steps to provide employment for women. It will look to alleviate the difficulties families endure when the wife loses her job. It will look to alleviate pressure on women caused by unemployment across the community. It will ensure that working women are treated as workers with real equality of opportunity. It will remember that women are human beings and that their good health is important to this nation. It will see to it that serious research is undertaken into their health and their continuing health. It will remember that there is more to life than working, that too many women work too hard for too long; it is vital that they have some recreation. It is time governments looked to the recreational needs of women and did something in a very real sense about those needs. 
I ask the Government to pay attention immediately to those important matters.  Senator Chaney  may have more influence with the Government than I have. I hope that his statement that governments really do look at some of the things we say and really do attempt to solve some of the problems is correct and that the women of Australia will be able to look forward to having a government that really meets their needs and does not just establish committees that may take submissions. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Construction whether the Government envisages moving the central office of the Department of Construction from Melbourne to Canberra. If so, would that mean that all the divisions now established in Melbourne, such as those of architecture, engineering and management, would be reestablished in Canberra? If these moves are to be made, is a regional office to be established in Melbourne, and what will be its function? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. Last week it was said in this chamber and not denied by the 
Minister that if a field officer from her department calls three times on a recipient of unemployment benefit and the recipient is not at home on any occasion, he will lose the unemployment benefit. Last week I had a most distressed recipient in my office who, on being found at home twice by a field officer, was told that he should be out looking for a job. As a considerable amount of real stress is being caused amongst unemployed people in the community, what advice are we to give constituents who ask us for advice in this area? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. As the Government has committed itself to protecting the health and safety of the people and environment of Australia from possible harmful effects associated with nuclear activities in Australia and as the description 'nuclear activity' figures in government statements on these matters, can the Minister advise the Senate of the way in which the term 'nuclear activity' is defined by the Government? 
Some time ago I asked the Minister representing the Minister for Construction a question regarding the moving of the Department of Construction to Canberra. I am wondering whether he has any more information on the matter. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security because I believe that her Department has the carriage of this matter. I understand that an announcement has been made to the effect that the Federal Government has set up a Year of the Child Committee consisting of representatives from the National Council of Women, the County Women 's Association and the National Council of Jewish Women. As those three bodies represent specific groups of women- professional women, country women and women from one religious group -and in view of the fact that when last September the Union of Australian Women was told by the Government Office of Child Care in Canberra that it was one of only three organisations that had shown any interest in the Year of the Child, will the Minister increase the membership of the Committee to give wider representation, including representation of the Union of Australian Women which has done a deal of work on its own on this important matter? 
I am grateful that I have been in the chamber tonight to listen to  Senator Wright.  I wish that we were in a situation where we had a greater appreciation of what we are about in this Bill, where we could indulge in real and deep argument concerning what its outcome should be. I agree with much of what  Senator Wright  said. In many ways the argument he puts is worthy of a greater and more substantial Bill, not this flimsy bit of window dressing to which we are addressing our attention. Really, the Premier of Queensland 's comment as reported in today's  Canberra Times  is probably one of the most honest of those that have been made on the situation that exists between the Federal Government and the Queensland Government. I think it gets to the heart of the matter. He said that the Aurukun Aboriginal mission dispute was really about mining royalties, and we are pretending here that what it is really about is the lives and futures of the Aboriginal people elsewhere. 
Last week in the Melbourne  Sun  a cartoon appeared showing a mountain of bauxite with two Aboriginal people sitting on it. They were saying to each other: 'It is very confusing. Is it Bjelke 's bauxite or is it Mai's bauxite?' I think that tends to sum up what the argument between the two governments is really all about. I find this Bill a hypocritical exercise. To quote John Newfong, the Queensland  Chairman  of the National Aboriginal Conference, it is a cop-out, a piece of window dressing. We are told that it is extraordinarily urgent business, that we have an urgent situation between two governments. 
Let us take one of the areas that brought about this urgency. The Queensland Premier said that he had been petitioned by the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island to take over the running of those two settlements. He said he had been petitioned three times by those people. We have never seen those petitions. We have never heard of the circumstances in which those petitions were taken up. We do not know what names were attached to the petitions or who took up the petitions. One would have thought that before we were pushed into this situation of urgency at least the Federal Government would have inquired a little further into the so-called petitions and would have at least asked for some evidence that the petitions were taken up and that the people on those settlements felt that way. 

 Senator Bonner earlier today quoted telegrams from the Uniting Church in Australian which said that it wanted the legislation passed today. That is great for the Uniting Church. But we just happen to have a telegram from the National Aboriginal Conference saying that it wanted one week in which to consider the matter. I would have thought that those people had some sort of priority and that their wishes might have been taken into account. The Uniting Church may have done all sorts of very good work on the missions. But the situation concerns the Aboriginal people and their council- the supreme body of Aboriginal opinion in Australia which was set up by this Goverment. The NAC sent a telegram from its inaugural meeting saying that it wanted a week in which to discuss the legislation, but that was ignored. 
-I am talking about the National Aboriginal Conference that represents Aboriginal people at Aurukun and all other parts of Australia. The Government has ignored that request. Why did the Government spend money to set up the Conference if it is of no account? The Conference has been meeting in Canberra all this week so it would not have been very hard to find the members of the Conference and to ask them for their opinion. However, they have been ignored. It is all just a sham and a whitewash. 
The Government has left members of the Conference to sit down and pontificate. Those members know that anything they do will not be of any account, because the Uniting Church can move in with a telegram and override them. Where is the integrity of this Government? The Prime Minister goes to the inaugural of the National Aboriginal Conference and says: 
It was never good enough for politicians or bureaucrats whether at State or Federal level to impose on the Aboriginal people their conception of what was good for the Aboriginal people. Aboriginals have the same rights as other Australian citizens to determine what is best for them. 
What a horse laugh that must have raised at the National Aboriginal Conference. What a horse laugh it must be raising in every Aboriginal settlement around Australia and in every area where Aboriginal people meet together. It is the greatest piece of hypocrisy that any Prime Minister of Australia has ever come out with. 
Why rush the Bill through the Parliament? Honourable senators can sit up all night and try to understand the ramifications of the legislation. But what about the people who really matter? We received the Bill at 10 o'clock on Tuesday night. What about the people whose lives it will concern? When will they see the Bill? Obviously they will see it when it is a fait accompli. We all know how difficult it is to amend a Bill once it has been passed. There is no hope whatsoever of doing that. The people whose lives will be caught up in it, the people who are the most concerned with it, get no say and are not consulted. 
We are told that the legislation is so urgent, that it must be rushed through so urgently, that we cannot stop for one day or one week to ask the Aboriginal people for their opinion, their help or their assistance. It was obvious last week when the battle lines were drawn between the Queensland National Party and the Federal Liberal Party that if the troops were really to be brought out to fight each other Parliament should meet with some urgency and someone should act responsibly. But of course the huffing and puffing subsided as we all knew it would, and so that urgency to keep the troops apart went. 
It was your urgency. It was your Government that was huffing and puffing. It was your Government that said that it would immediately have to take steps when it knew it would not have to take steps, when it knew there would never be that urgency. If the situation was as urgent as that the Government should have taken steps. But no, the Government could wait until this week to deal with the legislation. However, this week the legislation is urgent and the Government cannot afford to wait a day or a week. Last week we could afford to wait until this week. 
-Why did the Government undertake to get this legislation through this week? What is the legislation to prevent if it is passed this week? The Government huffed and puffed all over Australia when it knew the urgency was not there. The Government huffed and puffed and set itself up all over Australia. The Aboriginal people's supreme body met this week in Canberra. This is the body that the Government set up to advise the Parliament on Aboriginal affairs. Although the body met in Canberra the Government could not allow it one day or even one week to consider the legislation. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  said that he did not have the time to consult with the Conference about the Bill that the Government says it is rushing through the Parliament for the benefit of Aboriginals. Two years ago the Prime Minister was asked in the other place the following question: 
Are the terms of the Queensland Government's Aurukun Associates Agreement Act such that Aboriginal people are cheated of royalties and deprived of ownership and customary use of their land? Has the Queensland Government infringed United Nations and International Labour Organisations conventions regarding the rights of indigenous people in respect of their traditional land, particularly the right to be consulted? In what way is it intended to redress this situation? 
The Prime Minister replied that he had nothing further to give other than the answer he had given to a previous question. He said: 
I will be writing to the Premier seeking additional information. My colleagues the Minister for National Resources and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs will also be taking up with the appropriate ministers the particular aspects that come within their responsibility. 
He went on to say: 
Since the matter of foreign investment is also closely intertwined in this total situation there will also be discussions with the companies concerned to make sure that this Government 's foreign investment policy is maintained. 
That was two years ago. This period has passed, and apparently the foreign companies and the Queensland Government have such regard for any policy on foreign investment that this Government may implement that they have surged ahead regardless with a $ 1,000m investment in bauxite utilisation while they wait on the Federal Government's answer. There was no urgency in that situation but there is a fearful urgency in this situation. 
We know that both the Queensland Government and the Federal Government are aware of the minerals to be obtained from Aboriginal reserves. We know, because it has been reported, that a detailed study of 39 Aboriginal reserves to assess their mineral potential has been carried out by a wholly owned subsidiary of Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd. A memorandum dated 15 December 1976 to the General Manager of CRA Exploration Pty Ltd lists the reserves in order of importance as exploration targets. Eight reserves with good to excellent mineral potential were listed in the first group and described as the prime targets which should be given top priority in our future programs. The memorandum summarised the more important features of each reserve and what minerals were known to occur or could possibly occur in them. The reserves studied were mainly in the Northern Territory but included others in Western Australia, Queensland and South Australia. That is just one firm. Were the other mining firms sitting on their hands while that was going on? No, they were out doing exactly the same thing. So while the mining industry knows where the rich mineral deposits are and while the Queensland Government and the Federal Government know where those deposits are, where do the Aboriginal people stand? They stand at the end of the line. There was nothing then to stop people exploring on Aboriginal reserves; there is nothing now to stop people exploring on those reserves in Queensland and there is nothing in this Bill to prevent them exploring on those reserves in Queensland. Do we wonder why the rush is on? We know why the rush is on. It is because of the pressure on those mineral interests or both the Queensland and Federal Governments. One wonders, in light of the Federal Government's concern in Queensland in this instance, whether it will intervene in Western Australia. Will it intervene on behalf of the Aboriginal people in Western Australia? Are their land rights, their heritage, to be concerns of this Government? Or is our paternalism to cover only the real aim of this Bill- the mineral rights, and for whom? In Western Australia the elders of the tribe said: Contact with white society and alcohol has almost destroyed our people'. They said they deliberately turned their backs on the white man's world to make their own lives on their own land. Will this Government uphold that right for those people and with such speed? Will we be called back next week for urgent sittings to get through legislation to protect the rights of those Western Australian people? We will see, but I think we all know the answers. 
We have before us a Bill that relies on a Queensland Act. There is every evidence that the Queensland Parliament will manipulate that Act to the detriment of the Aboriginal people and to the detriment of what may be the best intentions of this Bill. It is a Bill that gives local communities no right to prevent undesirable white men from entering their reserves. It gives communities no right to enforce their by-laws against the white man. We know that in many areas Aboriginal people suffer from alcoholism just as in many areas of Australia white men suffer from alcoholism. We know that many Aboriginal communities understand that they have a problem which is more than one can say for the white community. If the Aborigines pass a by-law prohibiting the use of alcoholic liquor on their reserves they cannot enforce that law on the white man. The white man may bring alcohol and may sell it to the Aboriginal people as he has done for so long. So what is the point of their being able to pass a by-law? It is kid stuff. We have before us a Bill that does not prevent their land being mined, a Bill that allows a part of their reserve to be apportioned for the use of the community. Presumably, the rest, the greater portion, could be mined and they have no right to object. It is a Bill that says nothing about vesting the lands or any part of the lands in those Aboriginal people. It gives them no title at all. As  Senator Collard  said, if this Bill did anything like that it would not have the support of the members on the benches opposite. We must not upset the people who want our minerals. 

 Senator Collard spoke of the pastoral industry and how it had looked after the Aboriginal people. That was paternalism gone mad. There are men out there who own pastoral lands and whose wives would not join them in those far outback places where life was not easy. Their wives and children tended to live in capital cities but those men did not feel that they should be denied the pleasure of having a woman to live with. So they took an Aboriginal woman to bed and they produced children. Those children, while very young, were sent to orphanages in the city. They were told that they were orphans. They were not told who their fathers were and who their mothers were, not told where they came from and were denied all knowledge of their forebears and their families. They were left in these orphanages to live as best they could. If it had not been for the care and love of their Aboriginal families who made sure that they knew where they came from and what they were, they would have had no beginnings. Those pastoralists did not do it once; they did it again and again. They sent their own children off into that purgatory, that limbo, of not knowing who they were. I do not believe  Senator Collard  when he says that Aboriginals did not make good stockmen. If they did not, so far as I am concerned the pastoral industry owes a debt which it has not even begun to repay. 
I know there are people on the other side who deny that these people have rights as the original owners of this country, but let us not forget that our race bashed them, burnt them, raped them, murdered them, tortured them, poisoned them, starved them, cheated them, denied them education- it still does- denied them good health- it still does- and destroyed or commercialised their places of religion. From a legal, if not a moral, point they have some rights to the Australian land and they have more rights to that land than most of us have. Industry calls their claim to some land rights 'unauthorised totalitarian control'. Industry maintains- the Queensland Premier supports it- that industry workers have the right to the recreational use of other areas such as Aboriginal reserves. Under this Bill, Aboriginals have no right to prevent industry using their lands for recreational purposes. Industry maintains that it has the right to water, to gravel, to timber, to port facilities regardless of what rights the Aboriginals claim. This Bill does not stop industry claiming those rights. It gives the Aboriginal people no right to prevent industry from marching on and using those facilities. The Premier of Queensland believes- I believe that the Federal Government believes- that industry has those rights and that Aboriginal people have no right to deny industry. 
I believe that this is a gutless Bill introduced by a gutless Government which in conjunction with State Premiers is supporting and protecting the mining companies. We are told that we do not have the time to discuss this Bill and its ramifications seriously and properly. I quote from a report of a Senate Select Committee entitled The Environmental Conditions of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders and the Preservation of Their Scared Sites '. It states: 
. we still must express our conviction that if we are ever able to make atonement to the remnants of this people it will require no slight attention and no ordinary sacrifices on our part to compensate the evil association which we have inflicted. But even hopelessness of making reparation for what is past would not in any way lessen our obligation to stop, as far as in us lies, the continuance of iniquity. 
That was from a House of Commons select committee report on Aborigines in 1837 and, so far as I can see, nothing has changed in the time from 1 837 to 1 978. We still have not even a week in which to consider what this Bill will do for the Aboriginal people. I commend the amendment moved by  Senator Gietzelt  and hope that it is supported by the Senate. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Yesterday the Minister representing the Minister for Construction in answer to a question informed me that in accordance with the Prime Minister's announcement on the transfer of public servants to Canberra, 500 positions from the Department of Defence, the Department of Transport, the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations and the Department of Construction would be relocated in Canberra. Is it intended to close the Victorian office of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs? If so, how will the Department's affairs in Victoria be administered? Will those people presently employed by the Department continue to be employed by that Department? 
I present the following petition from 55 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That it is necessary for the Commonwealth Government to renew for a further term of at least 3 years the State Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act 1974/77, renewed for one year expiring on the 30th June 1 978. 
The demand for dwellings has not slackened as the waiting list (all States) of 12,060 single and 4,120 couples as at the 30th June 1977, showeth. 
Your petitioners respectfully draw the attention of the Commonwealth Government to the Report of the Committee of Inquiry into Aged Persons' Housing 1975 under the Chairmanship of the Rev. K. Seaman (now Governor of South Australia) which recommended additional funds to State housing authorities to meet the demand for low-rental accommodation in the proportion of $4 for $1 with the proviso that the States do not reduce their existing expenditure and 
That the Act include married pensioners eligible for supplementary assistance and migrants as specified by the Seaman Report and that particular consideration be paid to the special needs and requirements of the prospective tenants in the location and design of such dwellings. 
Furthermore, your petitioners desire to draw the Government's attention to the hardships of many pensioner home owners caused by the high cost of maintenance. 
The Social Security Annual Report 1976-77 shows that 24.6%, or 283,000 home owing pensioners, have a weekly income in excess of the pension of less than $6 per week. 
Your petitioners strongly urge the Commonwealth Government to establish a fund whereby loans can be made to means tested pensioners for the purpose of effecting necessary maintenance to their homes. Such a loan to be at minimal interest rates sufficient to cover administrative costs and to be repaid by the estate upon the death of a single pensioner before probate or upon the death of the surviving spouse in the case of married pensioners or where two pensioners jointly own the dwelling. 
Administration to be carried out by local government bodies. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: Is it true that women who are single parents and who lose employment are given a single mother's allowance rather than unemployment benefit? As women on single mother's pensions are subject to security officers investigating their premises and their beds to ascertain whether or not they have regular male visitors but those on unemployment benefits are not, will women who are placed on a single mother's pension in those circumstances be exempt from such supervision? 
I rise on the adjournment debate to acquaint the Senate with some of the real facts regarding the Working Women's Centre in Melbourne. This matter was raised last week by  Senator Harradine  in what I can only call a mischievous attack, full of inaccuracies and innuendos. It seemed to be an attempt to smear hard-working devoted women with the obvious purpose of denying government funding for the Centre because these people who run the Centre are not identified with  Senator Harradine  's faction in the trade union movement. At a time when women in the work force are under great pressure, at a time when they need assistance and advice, it is irresponsible in my opinion for a member of Parliament to add to that burden and it is particularly irresponsible for a member of Parliament who pretends to have expertise and experience in the trade union movement to add to that burden on women. At the moment 43.4 per cent of all women 15 years and over are in the Australian work force. That is, 2,204,600 women make up 35.6 per cent of the total labour force in Australia. In May 1977 41.9 per cent of all married women 15 years and over were in the labour force. In February 1977 322,300 unmarried women were heads of families. This survey excluded women who had alcoholic or sick husbands not earning an income and so had to be the bread winners in the family. In May 1977 41.5 per cent of employed married women worked part time on average 14.2 hours a week and 40 per cent of married women were looking for part-time work. That is the situation in which this Women 's Centre operates in Melbourne and this is the Centre that  Senator Harradine  sets out to rubbish and to give all sorts of strange connotations. 
Why was the Centre set up? If I may quote from a pamphlet put out by the Centre, it reads: 
The ACSPA Committee on Women's Affairs established the Working Women's Centre in July 1975 through an International Women's Year Grant from the Federal Government. 
The Centre was set up with the intention of informing unions about specific problems facing women in the work force; to encourage women to join their appropriate union; to educate women about trade unions and to encourage them to participate in union activity and to seek decision-making positions within the unions; to provide information and support for women who have problems which affect their work or ability to get work; to bring a grass-roots woman's view of the effect of government policies and legislation to the attention of government Ministers and departments. 
Several unions have sought the advice of the Centre. Several unions have actually involved the Centre in the preparation of material for arbitration claims and in at least three instances the Centre has actually given evidence in arbitration matters. The most recent example of this type of assistance was in a Full Bench hearing within the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in regard to a matter concerning the Municipal Officers Association of Australia and Rockhampton Council, which had dismissed a woman because she married. A decision on this matter has still to be given. 

 Senator Harradine maintained that this Centre was not a part of the union movement and that in fact it was hostile to the trade union movement. This Centre, as I said, was established by the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations in mid- 1975. ACSPA is one of the three major peak union councils in Australia. ACSPA, the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations and the Australian Council of Trade Unions comprise the three governing bodies of the trade union movement in Australia. ACSPA set up this Centre under its wing. CAGEO has contributed to the support of the Centre. The Centre was represented on the ACTU committee that set up the Federal Union Conference that discussed the ACTU Working Women's Charter. An employee of the Centre was invited by the ACTU to speak at that Federal Union Conference on child care, yet this is the body that  Senator Harradine  says has no place and is not recognised in the trade union movement, and in fact is hostile to the movement. At the Federal Union Conference the ACTU Secretary, Peter Nolan, moved this recommendation:  (That) the ACTU liaise closely with ACSPA and CAGEO in the implementation of the ACTU W.W. Chaner. Conference recognises that the role of the W.W. Centre in ACSPA and calls upon the ACTU to provide support to ACSPA in its endeavours to ensure the continued operation of the W.W. Centre. 
We urge that in the proposed unification between ACSPA and the ACTU that both Peak Councils recognise the role of a Working Women 's Centre and the need for its continuity. 
The ACTU in conjunction with other Peak Councils and through its affiliated branches and unions should initiate the investigation of the possibility of establishing centres similar in concept to that of the Working Women's Centre, in other States, which would be accessible to all trade unionists'. 
The Centre is financially supported at the moment by more than 70 unions, many of which are affiliated with the ACTU and whose leaders are involved in a wide spectrum of opinion in the trade union movement.  Senator Harradine  cast doubt on the fact that this was the only working women's centre in Australia. Nobody has ever claimed that it is the only women 's centre but it is the only centre that provides a service for all women who want to work. Other centres provide a service to members of their own unions. The Centre in Melbourne has received recognition from the Victorian State Government, the Federal Government and from other bodies outside government. In fact, the Centre has been invited to join several government committees including the Women's Welfare Issues Consultative Group in the Department of Social Security, the Victorian Government Department of Labour and Industry's Ongoing Activities of Safety Convention, the Victorian Premier's Migrant Advisory Committee and Equal Opportunities in Schools committees. The Centre also represents ACSPA on the Australian Public Service  Joint  Council Sub-committee on Women. The inquiry into human relationships praised the work of the Centre and recommended that similar centres be established in other States because of the advice, assistance and encouragement that it gave to working women. 

 Senator Harradine maintained that the Centre had become involved in matters that were not directly related to women. May I just repeat one aim of the Centre. It is to provide information and support for women who have problems which affect their work or their ability to get work. That covers a multitude of problems, including the sorts of problems that this Centre attempts to assist women with. There is nobody else to whom working women can turn, nobody who even attempts to answer the sorts of problems that arise in the everyday working lives of these women. The question of abortion always excites  Senator Harradine,  but it is just another piece of information for women who work. Under the current economic climate brought about by this Government's policy and brought about by the pressure these women are under because this Government will do nothing about unemployment, especially unemployment as it affects women, women are not able to have babies which they may want to have. They have to go on working. They are not working for their own enjoyment or fulfilment. They are working to keep their families' heads above water. They must keep working, and in that context abortion becomes a very real problem and a very real alternative for some of them. 
The trade union movement in this country has done precious little about the fact that it now takes two people's wages to keep a family and the days when one man's wages were sufficient to keep a wife and family and women did not have to work have gone. No woman in this community takes lightly a decision to have an abortion. We all know that prevention is better than this terrible cure. But what has  Senator Harradine  done to make sure that in the first place women do not have to go to work to keep their families above the bread line? What has he done to make sure that information on contraception, for instance, is readily available to women who work, to women who do two jobs all their lives? What has he done to make sure that counselling is readily available to women who work at two jobs all their lives? What has he done to make sure that counselling on family planning and information on how to cope with family responsibilities is available? Nothing! Yet when one centre does something to provide some information it is rubbished for its pains. 

 Senator Harradine does not know the pressures that push women to have abortions. Most humane understanding men who want to understand the pressures and the problems of women who face abortion do not understand because they are not women, and certainly  Senator Harradine  with his narrow inhibited view would find it impossible to understand the pressures to which women are subjected. He exhibits a great desire to be the keeper of women 's consciences but we do not need him as a keeper. Might I remind  Senator Harradine  that that is exactly how the majority of women in Australia feel about the matter. This Centre cares. It was set up to try to alleviate problems. It gives information on abortion from all points of view. If a woman in distress and under pressure facing abortion rings the Centre for advice, she not only gets information about where to find a counselling service but also she is directed to the Women's Action Alliance which gives information and assistance in some ways to women who do not want abortions and advises women against abortions. The Centre does not exist to push working women into having abortions. It is there to provide information and to help them make up their minds. 
In similar vein, the Centre gives information on other problems such as alcoholism. It directs people to Alcoholics Anonymous and such organisations. It provides a variety of information. For instance, it has information on what the Tenants Union is all about; invalid pensions; Medibank for school leavers; venereal disease; the Clyde Cameron College courses for 1 978; the United Nations Decade for Women; interuterine contraceptive devices; the Working Women's Charter Campaign Conference; the Working Women's Centre and why it was set up. It publishes a paper- the one I have is devoted to women and unemployment. It has information on the Resource Centre for Equal Opportunity; what disarmament means and the coming conference by CICD on disarmament; women's poetry. It has a working women's charter pamphlet on the number of women who are unemployed and why they are unemployed. It has information from the Wool Corporation on ethnic crafts in wool; information on a film program that was on in Melbourne that week; information on Workers Health Action; and much more at which we could look and which is available for inspection if people would like to see it. 
As well as that, the Centre puts out monthly reports and research papers. It distributes them to all unions throughout Australia. They are of such calibre that on the mailing list now are not only unions but also schools, universities, teacher training colleges and libraries. People subscribe to the Centre so that they might receive those reports. Some examples of the sort of material on which these discussion papers are written are: Should Unions be Concerned About Women 's Issues?', 'Do Women Really Get Equal Pay?', Should Unions Support a Mother's Wage?', Occupational Health', 'Women and Shiftwork', Occupational Health- Hazards for Pregnant Women' and 'Outworkers and Homeworkers' They are examples from a list that covers 25 discussion papers. I seek the indulgence of the Senate to have the full list incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The list read as follows- 

DISCUSSION PAPERS 
No. I- Should Unions Be Concerned About Women's Issues? 
No. 2- Should Unions Be Concerned About Childcare? 
No. 3- Should Unions Be Concerned About Migrant Women Workers? 
No. 4- Do Women Really Get Equal Pay? 
No. 5-Maternity, Paternity and Family Leave. 
No. 6- Do Women Have Equal Opportunities in Employment? 
No. 7- Should Union Support a Mother's Wage? 
No. 8-Alternative Working Hours. 
No. 9- Training and Retraining. 
No. 10- Occupational Health. 
No. 1 1- Unemployment. 
No. 12- Women and Shiftwork. 
No. 13- Work Experience. 
No. 14- Occupational Health- Hazards for Pregnant Women. 
No. 15- Equal Opportunity Bill. 
No. 16-Migrant Workers and Their Health. 
No. 1 7- Outworkers and Homeworkers. 
No. 18 - Women and Retirement - Part 1: Superannuation. 
No. 19- Child Care- An Important Industrial Issue? 
No. 20- New Patterns of Industrial Democracy for Women. 
No. 2 1 -Occupational Health- Part IV. Psychotropic Drug Abuse. 
No. 22- Women, Work and Technological Change. 
No. 23- Trade Union Training for Women. 
No. 24- Is There a Need for Health Services for Women at the Workplace? 
No. 25- Married Women Working. 
-That is the sort of material on which the Working Women's Centre concentrates and which the women work very hard to produce and to make sure that it reaches people who need it and who need to be reminded of those sorts of problems.  Senator Harradine  made the accusation that the personnel at the Centre had rushed around and changed the sort of material available there so that the Minister would get a false view of the sort of material put out. If the people had the time to do that, it calls into account the integrity of the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations which is the governing body that set up the Centre and which looks after it. It calls into account the integrity of the Minister who  Senator Harradine  evidently thinks is such a fool that he would go along, with no knowledge of the sort of material covered by the Centre and so would be fooled by the Centre being papered up for the occasion of his visit. The Minister must know very well that because of the short notice that was given of his visit and the time he spent in the Centre it would not have been possible, if it had ever been contemplated, to have papered up the Centre in that way. That was just another piece of mischievous nonsense to rubbish the Centre. 
The Centre has nothing to hide. It is an information centre. Groups leave material of a very varied nature and whatever is left there for women to read and mull over is not necessarily endorsed by the Centre; nor is it necessarily endorsed by ACSPA. But these people believe that this sort of information has to be made available somewhere to women and this is one way of doing it.  Senator Harradine  said: 
I have been told by a union official in Melbourne that a possible reason for the official trade union hostility is that on several occasions women associated with the Centre have attempted to by-pass the elected officials of unions and enter factories and work places in order to spread their propaganda. They have not even had the courtesy to advise the union officials whose members work in those factories of what they are attempting to do. 
In the first place, there is no official trade union hostility to the Working Women's Centre and, secondly,  Senator Harradine  gives no information of those instances when the Centre has bypassed the elected officials of unions. In fact the representatives of the Centre assure me that at no time have employees of that Centre entered a union shop without the consent of the union concerned and that on most occasions when they have gone into union shops they have gone with a trade union official to assist the trade union official and to have him assist them in speaking to the women on the shop floor. 
What contact has the Working Women's Centre with the trade union movement?  Senator Harradine  would have us believe that it had no contact; that it was set up as a front organisation and that it had nothing to do with trade unions. The two hard working and over-worked women who work in the Centre personally visit trade unions for discussions with officials- evidence can be given of that. As I said, they produce monthly reports and research papers which are distributed to all trade unions. Their paper Women at Work' is distributed through trade unions and in some instances unions have acknowledged that whereas the women tend not to read the official trade union journal, they most certainly read this publication because it includes matters which appeal specifically and immediately to them, and is of some assistance to them. The Working Women's Centre refers women who approach the Centre to the appropriate union for their jobs and they give information to the organisers to follow up. As a result, they are often invited to address the executives of trade unions and to address and participate in training seminars run by trade unions in Victoria. The Working Women's Centre is the only centre in Victoria set up solely to support all working women, and those women who want to work. It is providing valuable and worthwhile service to those women and it deserves the utmost support from all thinking people. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Administrative Services who is in charge of electoral matters. By way of preamble let me say that a young constituent reported to me that, on finding her name was not on the electoral roll prior to the last Federal election, although she had filled out a card, she was told by the officials: 'Do not worry about voting this time.' She reports that a 'gentleman with a foreign accent' beside her in the office was similarly advised. I ask: Is it current practice in the Commonwealth Electoral Office to dissuade people from voting? Is the Minister satisfied with the efficiency of the system for having new voters placed on the roll? If this girl had not persisted, would she have been fined for not having been enrolled at the time of the election? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: Is it a fact that the Government has printed forms to enable it to introduce licences for coloured television sets? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity. In view of the increasing amount of information coming from the scientific investigation of the effects of radiation on the human body, which shows fairly conclusively that the dose of radiation that may produce cancer is less than half the amount allowed in industry in Australia, is the Government considering as a matter of urgency initiating an inquiry into the conditions of workers who have worked in such industries over the last 30 years with a view to producing safeguards for workers who are currently subject to radiation in their place of employment? 
I  present the following petition from nine citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and members of" the Senate in Parliament assembled. The  humble petition of the undersigned members and ex members of the Citizens Forces of Australia respectfully showeth: 
On 14 February 1975, the then Australian Government deprived the Officers and men of the Australian Citizen Naval Military and Air Forces of the distinctive and historic Decorations and Medals for long service and good conduct, namely the Reserve Decoration, the Efficiency Decoration, the Air Efficiency Award, the Efficiency Medal and Long Service and Good Conduct Medals, awarded for long and meritorious voluntary service in the citizen forces. 
The proposed substitution of the National Medal for these Decorations and Medals varies the principle of selective recognition of efficient voluntary service in the citizen forces in that it recognises the period of service only and embraces also full time service as well in the defence forces as in the police, fire brigade and ambulance services. 
This deprivation caused and is continuing to cause serious discontent amongst personnel of the Citizen Forces who willingly and cheerfully give of their spare time outside their normal full time civilian careers, to serve Her Majesty and Australia. 
The Reserve Forces of Australia have been recognised by the present Government as a valuable- and costeffective component of the Defence Forces. Anomalously, whilst the Government is actually supporting recruiting for these Forces it has imposed and continued this deprivation which as foresaid has depressed the morale of the Citizen Forces. 
Her Majesty has not cancelled the said Decorations and Medals. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray your Honourable House take appropriate action to resume the award of the several distinctive Reserve Forces Decorations and Medals for Long Service and Good Conduct to members of the Royal Australian Naval Reserve, Army Reserve (CMF) and the RAAF Citizen Air Force. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to you,  Mr President.  Are you aware that due to the large influx of security staff and others into Parliament House this morning, the staff and food resources of the staff canteen were sorely stretched? Is it a fact that supplies of many items ran out early in the morning and that permanent members of the staff in Parliament House had to wait for up to 30 minutes for service? Will you,  Mr President,  in consultation with the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives, take some positive action to ensure that normal canteen services are maintained when visiting dignatories are present? 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General.  His  attention will have been drawn to an advertisement in the  Australian Financial Review  announcing a new Peter Clyne service and stating that bankruptcy is a solution not a spectre. The advertisement goes on to state: 
The Australian Bankruptcy Clinic can help to get you through the crisis with your dignity, your health, your peace of mind, your assets and your integrity intact. 
Does the Government intend to close whatever loopholes may exist which allow bankrupts to retain their assets? If the Government maintains that existing legislation now makes such retention impossible, will it be looking to prosecute for false advertising under the Trade Practices Act? 
-Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate give an assurance that the Government will not accede to the call of  Sir Philip  Baxter to spend $ 1 5m a year on germ and chemical warfare research? 
I agree with  Senator Collard  that this debate is probably a waste of time because if what he has just said is indicative of this Government's attitude to the problem, we are indeed wasting time that could better be used. It seems then that it is pointless to again urge the Government to stand behind the pledges it gave to the Mornington Island and Aurukun people.  Senator Collard  's statement on the years of litigation that might result from this Government using the powers it has to acquire this land for Aborigines sounds to me very much like blackmail. If we go ahead and acquire the land they will spend years and years in courts in litigation. That was not the principle or the feeling behind our original idea of what was going on, nor I am sure was it in the minds of the Mornington Island and Aurukun people. But evidently it is behind the thinking of some people in the Government. It is typical of so many of the statements that have been made. It is obvious now that the high flown statements, the purple prose that has issued forth, are nothing but bland window dressing. Like fairy floss, every time a bite is taken, their substance vanishes. This Government is all talk and no action. 
Why these people who are so vulnerable in today's world should be used when making these grand, empty gestures is beyond me. It appears that the Government is not the slightest bit interested in giving independence to these people. If it was, nobody could be so naive as to believe that a Queensland premier of the sort we have at the moment has the rights of these people at heart. He has shown clearly that he is much more concerned with the bauxite beneath the reserves than he is with the people in them. This Federal Government has shown that its real concern too lies in that area. I have a great deal of sympathy with the Aboriginal people at the moment who are saying that they would be better off if a treaty between white Australians and the Aboriginal people was drawn up. Then perhaps they would have some rights and someone would listen to them. 
How could a Federal Government believe a premier who, out of sheer pique, a sheer sense of self-importance, ended a program to treat trachoma amongst Aboriginal people when for every one white person in Australia who is blind there are 10 Aboriginal people. That was indicative of how he felt about the Aboriginal people in Queensland and how he would act. Aboriginal people want self-management; they want some freedom; they want the chance to stand up, the chance to run their own lives, to make their own mistakes and to establish their own lifestyle. They want freedom from a repressive government that treats them like idiot children. They want to manage their own affairs and make their own mistakes. They could not possibly make more mistakes either in their own affairs or in our affairs than we do. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said that the Government would not flinch from using its powers to acquire land if necessary to protect the position of the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island, but their interests would best be served by cooperation with the Queensland Government. Of course they would best be served if there were the slightest sign that anything like co-operation was forthcoming from the Queensland Government; but there is no sign whatsoever. Why does the Government not use its powers to acquire the land? 
The people of Australia showed how they felt about Aboriginal people when we held the referendum on powers to legislate for Aboriginal people. The Government has that behind it and it should take the opportunity to go forth and use those powers. How long, we wonder, can the farce go on with no evidence of co-operation. While the Aboriginal people find themselves homeless in their own traditional grounds, what is the Government doing? We have some indication of what the Queensland Government is doing from the plan that it has drawn up for the Aurukun township. It further demonstrates what is in store for the people of Aurukun. The 87 houses erected by individual members of the Aurukun community are to be removed to make way for roads and empty public places. Other useful facilities are also to be cleared, such as the Church, the community sawmill and the community workshop. Also virtually all the mature mango trees which provide the community with vitamin C and cover during the summer months are to be removed. That is what the Queensland Government has in store for these people unless the Federal Government steps in and makes good the promises that it has made. 
Giving in to people whose moves are clearly part of a broad strategy to dispossess the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island of their land is cynical. It is as though nothing has happened. The Government has not kept its promises. It is a fair assumption that this Government believes, with the Queensland Government, that a handful of Aboriginals should not be allowed to hold up the economic development of our country. That is the heart of the matter. For 'economic development' one can read 'mining'. I recall a cartoon which appeared at the beginning of this confrontation, snowing an Aboriginal sitting on each side of a pile of bauxite. One Aboriginal was saying to the other, 'The only problem we have to work out, is it State bauxite or is it Federal bauxite'. I think that is what this matter is all about. To get the rights, the Queensland Government has vilified the Presbyterian Church, the Aboriginal people, the Federal Government. What else will it take? Does it believe, with the Queensland Premier, that the real fight is with the Presbyterian Church, that the Presbyterian Church really wants 30 per cent of the gross profit from the mining? 
The welfare of all Aboriginals and their fair and just treatment must be paramount. In this squabble the Federal Government must now use the powers it has to acquire the land and give these people back their humanity. We are supposed to believe in the potential goodwill of a State government that ignored the report of its own ombudsman in 1976 to consult over amending the Aurukun Associates Agreement Act. Throughout 1977 it consistently denied that the Government had any plans to control the mission, at the same time orchestrating a campaign of vilification against both the community and the church. Yet on 1 April 1978 it advised the Church and the Federal Government that it was taking control. From then on we have the sorry spectacle of a Federal government that backs off and backs off. There is indecisiveness and compromise because the Federal Government does not really want to see these people free of the tyranny of the Queensland Government. It just wants to know where the bauxite is going. Now can we have some decisiveness and an honesty and an honouring of the promises that have been given to these people of Queensland. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is it true that it is still possible for a housewife- possibly a pregnant housewife- to purchase the herbicide 2,4,5-T over the counter in a garden supply store of a supermarket? Does the Minister consider that the information provided with these products is sufficient to warn the average individual that in the opinion of the Environment Protection Authority in the United States of America extreme care must be exercised in the use of this material, otherwise binh defects or cancer may well result? Has the National Health and Medical Research Council ever proposed a regulation which would have served to protect women of child bearing age or pregnant women against exposure to 2,4,5-T? Is it true that the United States authorities legislated in 1970 to protect women of child bearing age against exposure to 2,4,5-T? 
I present the following petition from 699 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth:- 
That Item 6469 of the standard Medical Benefits Table is the means by which payment is made for the slaughter of thousands of unborn babies every year. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government should ensure that Item 6469 is removed from the standard Medical Benefits Table. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I take part in this debate very conscious of the fact that the Government assumes that the Bills- the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill 1978 and the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill 1978- will establish mechanisms for protecting the health and safety of the people of Australia. I indicate at the outset that I do not believe that any mechanism, any Act of Parliament, the most repressive regulation, the greatest fine, the longest gaol sentence or any line drawn on any map can protect the health and safety of the people of Australia when the mining, milling and use of uranium are concerned. As far as I am concerned, as far as the Opposition is concerned and as far as the Party to which I belong is concerned, the only real safeguard at the present state of knowledge in the world is to leave uranium in the ground. The people of this country are becoming more and more disturbed as more and more facts become available on the problems associated with uranium and the nuclear industry. 
The assertion made yesterday by  Senator Lewis  that the people of this country voted at the last election for the mining, milling and use of uranium is nonsense. They did not vote for that at all. That was not part of the Government's election campaign. If the Government believes that the people of this country voted for the mining of uranium, I challenge it to hold a referendum and to ask the people of Australia how they feel. We know that the Government will not do that because we know that it is as conscious as we are of the fact that half the population of Australia is against the mining of uranium because we do not know enough about the effects which will result from the use of uranium. 
The picture is the same all over the world. More and more people are concerned that once we begin to mine uranium, once the nuclear industry starts, we will have no way of stopping the effects which may occur. We have heard too many people in the past say after the event: 'We are sorry; we did not realise. We did not know at the time'. Because of the examples with which we have been provided in this instance we feel that responsible governments should say: 'Right, we will wait until we do know. We will be conscious of the research that is going on. We will hold our hand '. 
The very nature of uranium raises questions in the minds of people. Responsible people are urging governments to go slowly and to find out more about the matter. Very recently in Melbourne 200 scientists, scientists who are concerned with the physical effects of radiation, urged the Government to go cautiously in regard to uranium mining because of the potential risks of radiation, including genetic damage and the danger of cancer. One of the results of mining uranium is to release radon 222, a radioactive gas. One large, modern nuclear power plant in one year produces 1,000 megawatt years of power. It has been calculated on the basis of current theories on radiation induced illness that 400 deaths will occur among future generations from the mining of sufficient uranium to produce that 1,000 megawatt years of power. The price for the supply of that power is 400 deaths in future generations. 
Radon gas is given ofT by uranium at a steady rate. It will be given off steadily from the tailings dumps for tens of thousands of" years. Where are the urgent plans from this Government to deal with tailings dumps? Where are the urgent Bills which will establish safeguards before mining begins? There are none. We are told that regulations will be brought in. But we are not told what the regulations will be. There have been reports from mining companies that they will use lead shieldings in trucks and safety clothing. Excavator cabins will be air conditioned to ensure that no dust is inhaled. Workers must stay in the cabins while in the pits. Overalls must be washed daily. Badges must be worn to check radiation doses received. Will the people who go about the mine sites where the tailings dumps are and where the radon gas will be have to wear respirators? Will this happen in that sort of country and in that sort of weather? 
The tailings dumps are on the mine sites and they will be there for a long time. When will we know what sorts of regulations will be enforced? How will they be enforced to make sure that nobody suffers from the inhalation of radon gas? There does not seem to be the same urgency to make sure that those things are done before uranium mining commences as there is to bring in this repressive legislation which will prevent people giving this sort of information to other people once uranium mining has commenced. It has now been established in America that among uranium miners there are five times as many deaths from lung cancer as there are among nonminers because of the inhalation of radon gas. We are told that we should not worry about that in Australia because there will be no underground mining and because Australia is different. If we go to Jabiluka and look at the mine site we will see that it is at the bottom of a saucer-shaped depression. We are told that it will be one of the deepest open cut mines in the world. Radon gas is heavy and it sits at the bottom of pits. Here the deep open cut mine is at the bottom of a saucer. When we talk to the miners in that area they tell us that the vein of ore goes deep and that eventually it goes under the hill. The miners think that probably the most efficient way to get at the ore, once they get to the bottom of the open cut, will be to follow that vein underground. As the mining of uranium is so important it is obvious that nobody will stop the company going underground. So then Australia's uranium miners will run a five times greater risk of dying of lung cancer than nonminers. What will the Government do about that? That is a possibility which is upon us now. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  stated: 
One would assume thai the code-- 
That is, the code for uranium mining-  would lessen the dangers and extent  or  cancer. 
We want less assumption and more action on the part of the Government. What terrifies me in this situation is that no figures are available on the incidence of lung cancer among open-cut miners.  Mr Hunt  assures the country that there is no risk involved in mining uranium, that there is no risk involved for the miners. What is patently obvious is that he does not know. So evidently, as the Government does not know, it does not care what will happen to uranium miners in the future. 
Current scientific work shows that the danger from low level radiation is much greater than once thought. Studies have shown that workers receiving doses as low a 1.6 rads a year had a greater incidence of cancer than other workers in industry. Here in Australia the atomic industry has always assumed that the threshold was 5 rads a year. Yet evidently there is nothing to push back that threshold to the level of 1.6 rads that is showing up at the moment. In fact we are reaching the point, as workers in that area will say, of establishing the fact that there is no threshold when it comes to danger from radiation and that all radiation is dangerous to people. But evidently the Government assumes that is has no responsibility in the area. 
The General Accounting Office in America says that the federal agency there responsible for protecting the public against radiation does not know the scope of the problem, it does not have the resources to find out, and for the last six years it has failed to issue a single standard that currently is being enforced. Why, instead of bringing in the repressive legislation that we have before us, does this Government not do something along these lines? America has a greater industry than we have and it has not done anything about it. Yet this Government evidently does not see the danger and is not prepared now, before we get into the field, to bring in legislation that will protect both the workers and the people of Australia from the problem. 
The health records of uranium miners in Australia either have been lost or have never been kept. Will they be kept this time? Where are the government measures assuring us that they will keep them this time? The only measure we have before us at the moment provides that, if there is any information, people will be prohibited from passing that information on to others. Once these Bills are passed people can be gaoled for urging workers to take steps to protect themselves from the hazards that exist in this industry. 1 do not believe that that is an example of a government showing concern for the problems in the uranium industry. We are told continuously that these Bills are needed to protect; we are told continuously that international safeguards will protect; we are told that nuclear safeguard pacts with potential customers will protect. I ask the Government whether it seriously thinks that a piece of paper along those lines would have protected Aldo Moro? That is all we are being offered- pieces of paper to protect against some wicked, dangerous or mad people. 
The General Accounting Office in America has reported that thousands of pounds of plutonium and enriched uranium are missing. In the United Kingdom the authority achnowledges that enough plutonium to build 15 nuclear bombs is missing from its stockpiles. Despite what the Government spokesmen have said, we all know, and they know, that leading scientists admit that one does not need extraordinary facilities to produce a bomb. Even  Sir Philip  Baxter said recently that it is not necessary for countries to have a nuclear power industry for them to be able to produce atomic bombs. Honourable senators opposite all acknowledge  Sir Philip  Baxter as an authority. He said that all that was needed was five tons of uranium and a cascade of dozens of centrifuges. The Ford Foundation said that a crude atomic bomb could be produced in a clandestine laboratory with minimum knowhow. Crude it may be, but it would be efficient at killing large numbers of the population. How will the Government's repressive legislation stop all that. 
We keep saying that all this will happen overseas but the Government keeps saying that we need all the extraordinary procedures that are now operating in Parliament House to protect us. The Government keeps saying that terrorists may start to operate in Australia. It keeps saying that once terrorism becomes the fashion there is no way that Australia can escape from it. So we have the knowhow here in Australia, we have the material here in Australia and what will be the end result? How will this repressive legislation help the Government to stand up to blackmail by mad, wicked or stupid people? How could we say, as the Italian Government said: 'Go ahead, do your worst'? If there were a blackmailer or a terrorist around with this sort of material, how could any government afford to say: 'Go ahead, do your worst '? 
It is continually being slung at the Opposition and the Australian Labor Party that at one stage we were in favour of uranium mining and that we did an about-face. All I can say is that the people of Australia appreciate that at least members of the ALP considered the matter continually and took notice of what was going on in the world. We took notice of the scientific work that was being done. We looked at all the facts, said 'We were wrong', and changed our policy. That is what any reasonable adult person does. He continually looks at the arguments, and when the arguments are sufficient to convince him that he was wrong, he acknowledges that and changes his policy. That is what we did. But this Government is too bound up with the mining companies ever to acknowledge that there are dangers and that responsible governments should look at the dangers and take steps to change them. 
The honourable senator does not listen. I admit that we were involved in the mining but we know now that we were wrong. We know now that we cannot combat the difficulties in the uranium and nuclear industry to which the Government shuts its eyes. The Government's attitude is: Get it out of the ground, make a profit and never mind about the results. We are concerned and we have taken a stand. We say: 'Until the problems can be solved, we will not sell uranium.' For the Government, there are not any problems. For us there are. For the sake of greedy mining companies the Government is prepared to use the most repressive provisions that have ever been known in Australia, lt is prepared to deny ordinary industrial rights to workers in unions and associations that are part of the industry. It is prepared to deny basic civil rights to people because of this extraordinary industry. The Government wants to regulate the movement of people entering the mine site. It wants to declare the mine site a restricted area. It wants to fine or imprison people who hinder uranium mining in any way. It even goes to the point where people who are suspected of interfering may be arrested without warrant. I repeat that they may be arrested without warrant. Who would have thought that in Australia in peacetime such a section could be enforced? 
I do not want uranium mining. The section of the Act states: 
It is not necessary to show that he was guilty of a particular act tending to show an intent to prejudice the defence of the Commonwealth and, notwithstanding that no such act is proved against him, he may be convicted if, from the circumstances of the case, his conduct, or his known character as proved, it appears that he acted with intent to prejudice the defence of the Commonwealth; 
How does the defence of the Commonwealth relate to an ordinary commercial mining operation? Are we only mining and milling uranium in Australia or are  Mr Anthony's  plans to enrich uranium here further advanced than we have been led to believe? When will the Government announce those plans to set up an enrichment plant in Australia? Where will the enrichment plant be situated? How will the technical problems of it be solved? Where will we put the waste from it? The Government is not going to tell us, yet we have this extraordinary legislation just for the simple mining and milling of uranium. 
We have trouble with the contracts. Canada had trouble with the contracts with the embargo on enrichment, and Canada had to let go her embargo on other countries enriching her uranium. How strongly will we stick to the proposed codes of safety if it means losing the contracts? It would be easier and more profitable to enrich uranium in Australia. But it is not being said at the moment that we should do that. If people protest, if they do not want the plant built near them or built at all, if they do not want to work on it, if they try to talk other people out of working on it, if they try to acquaint other people with the problems- if they use all the forms of democracy that we believe in to express a point of view to fellow citizens- under this legislation they can be jailed. 
There are problems overseas concerning the disposal of waste. In Canada, Pickering's giant nuclear power station could face a sudden shutdown within a year because of the growing shortage of space for storing dangerous radioactive waste fuel. Let me refer to the report of the United States General Accounting Office. It states that if all the nuclear activities were halted the United States would still have major radioactive waste disposal problems because of the accumulation of waste for decades. The report went on to say that 7 1 million gallons of high level waste were temporarily stored in steel banks at two facilities in South Carolina. I refer to a document entitled 'Conclusions and Recommendations of Report "Nuclear Power Costs" Environment, Energy and Natural Resources Sub-Committee of Committee on Government Operations, United States Congress'. Amongst the recommendations are these: 
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission should require as a condition or nuclear powerplant construction and operating licensing, that applicants estimate the cost of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel disposal and storage, which estimates should be promptly published by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 
Congress and the executive branch should consider requiring that further licenses for nuclear powerplant construction be conditioned upon the timely and satisfactory resolution of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel permanent disposal and storage problems. 
The Department of Energy should establish and operate permanent waste disposal facilities at such sites as soon as possible. All costs associated with that disposal should be reimbursed to the Federal Government in full through the assessment  of disposal  fees for radio-active wastes received. 
The Department of Energy should develop a schedule of fees and expenses adequate to cover the full cost of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel management, including disposal, perpetual care, and reasonable contingencies, and should issue guidelines necessary to accurately estimate decommissioning costs. 
With those sorts of costs coming up, the United States has a real problem with the disposal of waste. Japan is cutting back on nuclear energy because of public pressure over the disposal of nuclear waste. The Philippines, which has a reactor in the heart of volcanic country, certainly has a problem with waste. We know that France, Austria and Germany- to mention three more countries- have problems concerning the disposal of waste. The concern of many people in those countries is that if the countries are to continue with nuclear power, what will they do with the waste? 
If Iran goes ahead with its proposal for nuclear power, if it signs a contract what conditions will be in the contract about waste disposal? Let us not again hear the old chestnut about the glassification plant in the south of France. Responsible scientists all over the world accept that it has not yet been proved. Honourable senators may want more proof that the method does not work satisfactorily. Why are countries such as the United States, Canada and Japan, which have problems with the disposal of waste, not proposing to use the plant? In view of the problems that these countries have with the disposal of waste, would it not be useful to have a waste' disposal facility to offer to countries to entice them into signing contracts for our uranium? The only conclusion one can reach, when the Government brings in this sort of repressive legislation, is that the Government does not intend to just have simple propositions for mining and milling uranium. We can only assume that the Government will go further, that it will enrich uranium in Australia and that it will offer waste disposal facilities in Australia. If that happens Australia will become the nuclear waste bin of Asia and perhaps the world. 
I would like the honourable senator's assurance that that is not true. If it is not true why introduce this extraordinary legislation for the simple commercial operation of mining and milling uranium? More dangers will exist if Australia has to offer waste disposal. 
The Government has said a lot of things in the past. If the Government wants to get Iran to sign a contract it may have to offer waste disposal. The Government certainly will have to water down the safeguards it wants before Iran will sign a contract. Because the Government has gone back on many things it has said in the past, I am not so sure that we will not be told next week that for the greater good of Australia and for our economic advancement it has been necessary to water down safeguards. In fact, we would not know if that occurred. We are not privy to the sort of contract that is being offered to Iran. We are not being told of the safeguards that are being insisted on with other countries. We sit in the Parliament and do not even know. Why do we not know? What is the problem in telling us the safeguards the Government is insisting upon? The only reason for not doing so is that we might not approve of the safeguards, and the 50 per cent of the Australian people who do not approve of uranium mining at the moment might also not approve of the safeguards. 
If the honourable senator does not believe the figure is 50 per cent he should run a referendum and test my claim. The whole incredibly terrible nuclear industry leads to problems that can be dealt with only by highly repressive legislation. The Government knows that. That is why it is bringing in this legislation. How can we have civil liberties and guard people from horrible death and genetic damage? How can we have civil liberties and still have the authority to move people around without explanation? How can we have civil liberties and insist on certain procedures and take certain action against people if they do not abide by the procedures? How can we have civil liberties and keep people away from materials which mean certain death and world-wide pollution? 
A proposal in the Flowers report from England sounded like some strange science fiction of the future. The report seriously envisaged a plutonium park guarded by a plutonium priesthood, people who had devoted their lives to saving humanity from its madness. We are not so far away from that here. It sounded extraordinary at the time. If it had been written 15 years ago in science fiction people would have laughed and said the world would never come to something like that. Fifteen years ago in peacetime in Australia for an ordinary commercial proposition the Government would never have brought in legislation like this. 
Already existing in the world are special police forces that shoot and have to give no explanation. What can happen under this legislation is not far away from that situation. That is the situation which is being introduced to Australia. How can we have civil liberties and protect people from the sorts of stupid and wicked actions that might occur when there exists the sort of material with which nations can be blackmailed? Why are we mixed up in this situation? We are going to these extraordinary lengths in what we believed was a democratic country at a time when the nuclear industry is going downhill. It is already being said in America that never has an industry gone downhill as fast as the nuclear industry. Nuclear plant orders are falling. In the United States of America in 1976 there were 36 orders for nuclear plants. Last year there were four orders, and only one of those was on real contract. Japan is cutting back on nuclear power and increasing its use of coal-fired stations. The cost of a 1 ,000 megawatt nuclear power station is $1 billion. It has been estimated that it will cost $10Om or more to entomb the plant when it closes. Costs are really going high. Nobody knows what it will cost to guard the material for as long as it has to be guarded. No matter how much argument goes on, nobody has found a solution to that problem. The material still has to be guarded. 
There is increasing disquiet all over the world. The more knowledge people have of the problems involved, the more disquiet there is. Evidently once this legislation is passed we will be forbidden to question what is going on at the mine site, to question what is happening to people, to spread information about the dangers or the accidents that might happen, to talk people into not working or ceasing to work in the industry. All of that is forbidden. But overseas public inquiries are held and the material is made public. So why are we in Australia different? Overseas the material is made so public that requirements such as those mentioned in the report from which I have quoted are specified. The report states: 
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission should require applicants for construction and operating licences for nuclear  powerplants,  as a condition of such licences, to amortise the full cost of radioactive waste disposal, spent nuclear fuel management, perpetual care, contingencies, and decommissioning costs over the expected useful lifetime of each powerplant. This should be done in accordance with the schedule of fees and expenses for such purposes issued by the Department of Energy. Funds sufficient for such costs should be levied by the power facility on its customers, and such amounts should be held in trust for purposes of such costs. 
Because of the disquiet amongst the publicoverseas this report is American- the report goes on to say: 
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission, as a condition of issuing construction licences for nuclear plants, must be assured there is a need for new generating capacity of the type and amount proposed. 
It further states: 
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission should require, as a condition of issuing construction licences for nuclear plants, that applicants for such licences show the appropriate State regulatory authority there is no economically sound and environmentally acceptable alternative for meeting anticipated increases in electrical demand. 
Overseas more and more people and more and more governments are concerned that the nuclear industry is necessary and must continue. Here we have legislation to prevent people knowing what is to go on in the industry. Why? The mining companies do not want problems highlighted. They do not want the problems that might arise on the mine sites highlighted. They do not want people to know that that very beautiful area of Australia may be despoiled or lost forever. They do not want people to know these things because the more people know the greater demand there will be for more action on problems and to halt the nuclear industry until they can be assured absolutely that there is no danger to the world in which we live, to future generations or to us. 
In conclusion 1 can do no better than to quote from the second report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry where it looked at the use of the Atomic Energy Act 1953. It states: 
We strongly recommend against the use of that Act . . . 
It continues: 
It will be seen . . . that the section gives power to carry on operations only if they are 'on behalf of the Commonwealth'. It must be doubtful, to say the least, whether the proposed operations could fairly be said to be carried on on behalf of the Commonwealth. Although the Commonwealth is a participant, the project is to be, as we understand, an ordinary commercial one. 
So why do we have this legislation? The report went on to say: 
In any event, the section is inappropriate for a venture such as is planned, and which has to be subject to strong environmental controls, determined upon and maintained independently of the co-venturers. 
Evidently that is not to be so. The report continues: 
It seems to us that s. 4 1 is a special power which was enacted at a time when the need to secure Australian uranium for use by Great Britain and the United States of America in nuclear weapons was uppermost in the minds of those concerned. If its use is to be continued in a situation where peaceful uses only are in mind and commercial profit is intended, the changed rationale should be recognised. The power, if it can bc applied in the circumstances, should not bc used simply because it exists and may appear convenient. 
So what do we have? We have a lazy government that is not prepared to legislate properly in this matter. The report goes on: 
A strong body of evidence demonstrates a widespread lack of confidence in the Atomic Energy Commission as the final arbiter of standards for the proposed mining operations, and as monitor of them. This is in part because it is proposed that the Commission be actively engaged as entrepreneur, and in part because one of its ordinary roles is the promotion of uranium mining and nuclear development generally. 
Finally, the report continues: 
We sec no reason why the scientific and technical expertise of the Commission should not be used in helping to fix standards and establishing monitoring procedures, and no reason why particular scientists and technicians should not be engaged in those activities . . . The central difficulty for present purposes is that they belong to an organisation whose function is not simply one of research; it is also an active commercial and political force in the promotion of nuclear development and the mining of uranium. 
The whole rationale behind this extraordinary legislation must raise suspicions in the minds of the Australian people. The whole rationale adds weight to the Labor Party's contention that we should open no more uranium mines and that the only proper way to safeguard the people of Australia from the difficulties, dangers and confusions that arise in this industry is to leave uranium in the ground. 
-I wish to ask a question on clause 5 (c) (i). It states that the 'standards, practices and procedures in relation to uranium mining operations in the Region for the protection of . . . the environment' are to be drawn up by the Supervising Scientist. I ask the Minister: Is it envisaged that the codes of practice for the mining operations will be drawn up and completed before mining commences? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. There was a reference in the Melbourne  Age  of 19 May to 'Australian pilots in Salisbury' presenting a pewter replica of a dust bin to members of the Rhodesian Air Force as a gesture of admiration. Can the Minister advise the Senate of the number of Australian pilots in Rhodesia? Are they members of the Royal Australian Air Force? What are their duties in Rhodesia? If they are not members of the RAAF, are these pilots in Rhodesia with the knowledge and approval of the Australian Government? 
-I rise to support the amendment moved by my colleague,  Senator Ryan.  In doing so, for  Senator Young's  benefit, I will repeat that we are against all mining of uranium. If  Senator Young  had bothered to read the amendment closely he would have found that it reads in part: 
At end of motion, add', but the Senate- 
opposes mining in the catchment area of the Alligator Rivers, portion of which is within the proposed boundaries ofthe Kakadu National Park: 
That does not mean that that is the only area in which we are opposed to the mining of uranium.  Senator Young  amazed me. He talked about the Opposition nit-picking. We had  Senator Young  up on his feet in a fine fury about the South Australian Government. For one beautiful moment I thought he was in a fine fury because he was appalled at the fact that Aboriginal sacred sites were being polluted and that testing in connection with the mining of uranium in South Australia was endangering the environment. But I found that neither of those things moved him greatly. The only thing he was in a fine fury about was that the South Australian Government should dare to send him a telex suggesting that he support a policy which is supported by 90 per cent of the people of South Australia. There has been a lot of talk here about how this is a States' House and how honourable senators are here to represent the States. I think  Senator Young  ought to look again at the reasons why he is a senator from South Australia. 
As I have said, he amazed me, as did  Senator Jessop.  Both of them referred in this debate to the lack of danger regarding radon gas.  Senator Jessop  stated that there was more danger from radon gas in the mining of coal or superphosphate than there would be in the mining of uranium. This Government has said it will bring into being and enforce precautions in the mining of uranium in the area of the Northern Territory about which we are talking in order to protect the miners. If the dangers of radon gas are so much worse in the mining of coal and superphosphate, why are Government supporters not standing on their high horses and demanding that the same sort of preventive measures be introduced for the mining of coal and superphosphate. Evidently it does not matter because it will only be the miners who will suffer, so why worry! There is no agitation from Government supporters about safety measures in the mining of coal and superphosphate, yet, according to them, in those areas the danger is so much greater. 

 Senator Jessop said that there would be no underground mining in Australia. I suggest that  Senator Jessop  take another look at Jabiru, where the Pan-Continental company says it will mine uranium. He should remember a conversation with an engineer about how deep the mine will be and how the uranium will still be there, going under the hill. He pointed out that it would be much cheaper to mine it underground than it would be to remove the hill to get at the uranium. 
Do not tell me that once the mine is open they will not continue on the seam and continue to take the uranium out underground because there is nothing in this legislation to stop them. 

 Senator Jessop went on to talk about what he called the so-called dangers from radiation. Evidently, according to him, all that has to be done is to wrap it up in brown paper bags and there will be no trouble at all. If it is as easy as his authority makes out and if there is as little danger as his authority would have us believe, why is it that in Washington a congressional study has raised once again some old questions about the future of nuclear energy, at least in the United States. Despite 30 years of federal control in America the government and industry so far have failed to produce a solution to the problem of radioactive waste. That is one of the main themes to have emerged from a 104-page report on nuclear energy which is soon to be released by the Environment, Energy and Natural Resources SubCommittee of Congress. The Congressional report charges that no permanent acceptable storage method has yet been found for radioactive waste and that this disposal problem, more than any other factor, threatens the future of nuclear energy in the United States of America. The Congressional report also finds itself in agreement with a recent study by the Rand Corporationa Californian-based 'think tank'- that the cost of nuclear energy is climbing astronomically and that this cost spiral and the waste problem are already causing some American States to back away from nuclear power development. 
California, for example- America 's most important State- has rejected nuclear development, opting instead for more conventional energy sources such as coal, and at the same time investing public research moneys in safe alternatives such as solar power. I suggest that  Senator Jessop  send his reference both to the Congressional Committee and to California so that on the one hand they will be able to realise the imminent dangers in California and on the other hand perhaps they will get him sufficient brown paper bags in which to wrap the stuff so that it can be disposed of safely. When he has convinced those authorities about those particular problems, perhaps he will then start on the uranium miners who, at the moment, have a five times greater chance of getting lung cancer than other people in the community. That is not because they smoke cigarettes; it is because they mine uranium. 
In supporting the amendment that my party has moved I state that I am very much in favour of this land in the Alligator Rivers Region becoming Aboriginal land. I am very much in favour of this Aboriginal land being leased to the Department of National Parks and Wildlife to be managed with the assistance of the Aboriginal people as a park, as the Kakadu National Park. I believe that this is not only the heritage of Australia but also the heritage of the world. Because of its beauty, its splendid vistas, its quietness, its loneliness and its grandeur, it is significant in the very attitudes we take when we talk about civilisation. Also, of course, it has the richest deposit of uranium in the world. That is the snake in this Eden. 
Aboriginal people want uranium left in the ground. Although they have said that under some circumstances they will agree with mining at Jabiru, they have also said that if this Government is determined to go ahead with mining uranium they would like to see the smaller site at Nabarlek taken up first so that they can have a first hand look at the results of uranium mining. Although at Jabiluka they have said 'No. We do not want uranium mining in any circumstances' we know from talking to many of them that they really want the uranium left in the ground despite the riches which might flow to them from the mining of the uranium. They do not count riches as we do, in dollar bills and silver coins. They give high priority to keeping that area uncontested and unviolated 
We know that more than half the people in Australia want uranium left in the ground. We know that there are thousands and thousands of people in the world- the number is growing all the time- who want uranium left in the ground. We want it left in the ground, particularly in that area so that the Park will not be violated. This Government, at the behest of mighty mining companies, sees the profit that it thinks it will make from mining uranium and it wants it out of the ground, no matter what sort of havoc is wreaked in doing so. The Government says, of course, that these Bills will protect most of the areas from the harmful effects of mining. Its method at the moment to protect those areas and to protect the Park is by excluding the mine project areas from it. The Park is planned in two sections. We declare the land between the mines a park now and when the miners have finished with the land, we declare the second part to be added- the bits that are left between the dumps, the rock heaps, the polluted water and what is left after the roads, towns, tracks, ore dumps, holding ponds and the treatment plants have been built. If there are any rock formations, sacred places or Aboriginal paintings left which are not affected by blasting, by fumes or by people, they will all be added and then we will have a whole park. In his second reading speech, the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  said: 
The natural habitats contain a wealth  or  flora and fauna of great potential interest not only to Australians but all mankind . . .  1,000  species of plants have been recorded ... an impressive abundance and diversity of animals. 
The Minister assures us that steps will be taken in the second stage zone to ensure that the wildlife and natural features are protected adequately. How will that be done? Will it be done by drawing a line on a map and saying that everything outside that line is now protected, and that this line will somehow protect everything outside that line by what goes on inside the line? How will the line on the map protect the area when we know so little about it? The Ranger uranium report, which the Government loves to quote out of context and by no means fully, in part states: 
The diversity as well as making Ranger so interesting, implicates the problem of assessing the impact of any manmade disturbance to the environment. 
It states further: 
But much less is known about the interactions between them, which constitute the regional ecology and which could be disturbed by developments. 
We do not know what the environment or the ecology is like before we start, yet the Government has drawn up Bills to protect them. As most honourable senators would know by now, the area is very wet. It carries an enormous body of water in the wet season. Uranium mining uses a lot of water. We have been told that contaminated water will be kept in dams. The Ranger report recommended that very strict conditions should apply to the security of those dams. Indeed, when we visited that area, the miners told us that the Ranger report was wrong, that the conditions it had imposed on the dams were wrong, that they were too expensive and would not work. The miners had their own ideas. 
The Government is not insisting on the implementation of the proposals brought down in the Ranger report. Presumably, it is letting the miners have their own way as to how that contaminated water will be kept. When we were at the site, the interesting point raised was where the dams were to be put. The Ranger proposal is that the dams will be built at the project area. We visited Jabiluka and even the miners apparently were a little concerned that the dams were right on the floodline of the creek. They were talking about moving the dams to the other side of a mountain. They did not know where the dams were going to be built, yet we are talking about going ahead with mining in that area. We visited Nabarlek and again they did not know where the tailings dams were going to be. How can these Bills keep that part of the environment free and clear when the miners themselves at this stage do not know where the dams will be built? The Government cannot say that they will be in a safe place or that the environment will be kept safe. 
The Fox report said that the real situation will become apparent only when mining commences. That is what worries the Opposition. The real position will become apparent only when it is too late to do anything about it. I should like to refer to some of the comments contained in the Fox report when it referred to water. It stated: 
Aquifers are likely to play an increasingly important role as a source of fresh water if development proceeds and knowledge of the characteristics of the different types is necessary if they are to be successfully exploited and protected from contamination. 
Water quality in many of these aquifers is good which suggests that they are recharged locally from the surface. In some very localised areas, groundwater radioactivity is above World Health Organisation standards for drinking water.  lt went on to say: 
Higher than normal chloride concentrations in some bores means that the river has been interpreted as meaning that some contamination ofthe aquifers from the river occurs and as offering a warning of the possible effects on this source of water if mine and other contaminants should enter the South Alligator drainage system. 
But at this stage we do not know what these effects will be. We are told that a research institute will be set up to find out the possible effects. But we will be finding out what the dangers may be at the same time as we are mining and polluting. That is not sensible. It only means that at the end of such an examination we will be able to say: 'There you are; now we know how the pollution occurred '. The report goes on to say: 
Information on their occurrence and potential as water sources is very limited. Seepage from the shallow aquifers in weathered rock, sand sheets and sandy drainages probably extends the period of flow of streams and the life of some billabongs in the dry season. 
So we are told that we should be worried about where the water goes in the wet season but it appears that we may need to know what happens in the dry season too. But at the moment we do not know. The Government says 'We will find out', but we will be mining at the same time. The report says: 
Any contaminants from proposed mining and processing operations . . . released into and remaining in surface water . . . would be confined to the Magela drainage system . . . The  desination  of contaminants entering deep ground water is less certain. 
The hydrology of the system can be described only in broad terms because limited stream flow data exists. Some water from the Magela Creek and its tributaries is probably lost to deep aquifers associated with faults in the basement rock. Several major fault lines have been identified within the catchment. 
Honourable senators will recall that we are less than certain about the destination of contaminants and their entry to deep ground water. We are less than certain about so much of the environment in this area. The report says that the total flow past Jabiru in a normal year is 250 million cubic metres and in a wet year it may exceed three times that volume. But not enough information about the local oceanography exists to enable the way river water diffuses into the sea to be determined. There is this vast amount of water which will flow past the mine. If there is any sort of breakdown in the precautions or the banking that the mining companies are going to insitute we do not know where that polluted water is going to finish up. The report says: 
Particularly relevant in the Magela system are the levels of heavy metals and radioactive materials. 
Data on concentrations of these materials are of variable quality. The figures quoted can be regarded as giving only an indication of the quantities present. The data available are not adequate to show how concentrations vary during a year or between years of different flows . . . Information is not available on the chemical form of metals in Magela Creek water, a major factor influencing their toxic effects. 
So all along the line we are told: 'We do not know what will happen; we will find out'. Why cannot we find out first before the damage is done? The reason is because the Government is in such a hurry. The report is full of those sorts of quotes. When we think about water, about seepage, about the pollution of water and where the water will go, I remind the Senate that three or four years ago in Washington 200,000 gallons of high level waste leaked out of containers that were 'safe'. They were monitored by methods which were considered to be inviolable- could not go wrong- by computers. But the human being who was in charge of the computer forgot to look and therefore did not notice the leak. The 200,000 gallons was seeping through the ground and had almost reached the Colorado River. It may have reached it by now but the authorities cannot do anything about it. They do not know what will happen. They cannot smell it. They cannot taste it. They cannot see it. It has happened. Nothing can be done to undo the damage. 
In Canada energy authorities are worried that radioactive water will seep into the town and city water supplies from disused uranium mines.  Dr Coates,  who is the Canadian Government's mining and energy research chief, said that 
Canada is spending vast amounts of money trying to solve the problem. He said that there is a strong possibility of the radioactive water seeping into the rivers and dams that supply water for commercial, domestic and agricultural use. He said that if it happens it could result in genetic deformities, cancer or one of the other hazards of radioactive material. Canada is trying to find a solution after the problem has arisen. We have a chance to work out what the problems may be and thereby avoid them, but no, we are not doing that. Honourable senators will all remember that in India just a short time ago it was found that a deadly poisonous and highly radioactive plutonium isotope was lost 13 years ago in the sacred Himalayan Mountains by the Central Intelligence Agency. Teams of scientists are now 13 years later checking the water of the Ganges for any contamination. 
What damage has been done to the millions who use the waterway every day has not been established. It may be that the substance has not got into the Ganges. However, if it has it is far too late to do anything about it. This is the point we are trying to make. Once you have destroyed a resource in this way it cannot be restored. I ask honourable senators to recall what happened at Rum Jungle which was only a very small installation compared with the proposed mining at the Kakadu National Park. Just remember what happened there when a dam broke. We are all told now that this will not happen again but human beings are fallible and the things that we build are sometimes unreliable. We were told by the Department of the Northern Territory that it will take at least $ 12m to restore that small area of Rum Jungle. So how much would it take to restore the area in the Kakadu National Park should one of these little accidents happen again? The imagination boggles at how much it would cost. It also boggles at how man can go forward and endanger his own environment in this unthinking, unknowing way. 
We do not know anything about the ecosystem in that area. We do not know anything about the ecosystem in the area in which we live in the south of Australia. We do not know what is the balance of life. We do not know the balance between an insect and the system. We do not know about the life chain, the food chain or the effect on our food chain. Yet blithely in we go despite the report which says, amongst other things, that a rare and interesting type of semi-deciduous forest exists there. We talk about things that really we do not know anything about. We do not know how the life chain could be destroyed. We do not know the balance between life and water. We do not know what the killing or wiping out of one insect in this area might do to the existence of birds which nest there, birds which fly south and destroy insects in the south. I and other honourable senators found when we were investigating the wood chip industry and were asking questions about what would happen if a certain insect were wiped out or a bird no longer existed and was not there to remove insects to protect the forest, that the answer we got over and over was We do not know'. Yet the Ranger report is putting before us very clearly the areas about which we know nothing. 
For instance the report in part says that a rare and interesting type of semi-deciduous forest exists. It is rare and it is interesting; that is all we know about it. Another part of the report says that many more species probably remain unrecorded because the species in the lessaccessible parts of the park, in parts of the plateau and some permanently wet areas were not collected as thoroughly as they should have been; some species were not known previously; regions are notable for their present relative freedom from introduced species. That is an important point. At the moment it is relatively free from introduced species. In Australia we have seen in so many parts species being introduced and then taking over by wiping out vegetation, wiping out livestock and threatening the livestock industry. We have not had a clue about what to do to overcome such problems. For instance in Queensland which is your State,  Mr Deputy President,  lantana still ravages. We have not found a way to cope with it. Yet into an area like this which we have the nerve to call a national park we are bringing an industry that with the amount of material and number of people involved could very easily introduce species that would take over and wipe out the natural, rare, interesting and previously unknown species that exist there. Some species are very rare. Some are known only in the Northern Territory or in Arnhem Land. The report states: 
The feral cat population is small, and the great abundance of small mammals in the Region is probably due in part to this fact. 
If we continue with mining at least one town will be established there. With the best will in the world, Australian human beings unfortunately do not seem to be able to move very far without their pets. It is inconceivable to think that cats will not get into the area and multiply with the same rapidity as they have in other areas of Australia. They have become one of the real predators in this country. What will they do to what we are pleased to call a national park? No line drawn on a map will keep them inside the boundaries. They have been known to step across boundaries and take off. Evidently, food is there in abundance for them. The report also states: 
A number of rare bird species could be endangered if trapping were permitted in the Region. Also any extensive hunting of water fowl could seriously affect the survival of local populations . . . 
Already the mining companies are saying that their workers should have the right to use the land around the mining areas for recreation. Recreation could very well include trapping. It could very well include shooting wild fowl and all sorts of things. What will that do to the local population of animals and birds that we have only just discovered? The report states further: 
Biological information on the fish species is limited   . insects . . . could be important as indicators of environmental change. Changes in numbers of, for example, dragon flies . . . could indicate the presence of water pollutants . . . About 4,S00 insect species have been recognised in collections during the Fact-finding Study, and further identification and collection are expected to reveal a total of over 10,000 species. Knowledge of the roles of all these insects in food chains, nutrient recycling processes and so on is very limited. 
Yet we are blithely going into the region for the mighty mining companies. We will destroy the pattern that has been set up there over centuries. The report states that it may prove possible to use pandanus as indicators of excessive concentrations of heavy metals. However, much additional research would first be needed. The Ranger report maintained that any research body would have great difficulties in establishing baseline biological data. One witness quoted by the report proposed a three-year program costing $lm a year but he agreed that even this would provide little information of value for resolving the problems before the Commission. How can we talk about preserving the environment? Why are we bringing in environmental Bills when we do not even know what the environment is and we are not prepared to wait to find out? 
The report also stated that the desirable objective would be to gain an understanding of the region sufficient to enable any man-made changes to be detected quickly. We will be completely unable to detect those man-made changes because we do not know what we are changing. On this matter the report finally stated that the Commission supported the proposition that if mining or other developments are to proceed as much information as possible should be obtained beforehand. We are doing nothing beforehand. We will allow some sort of research to go on in the area at the same time as we are beginning to mine and setting up all sorts of problems that we shall discover but which we shall not be able to solve. 
We have the time to wait and see. We are endangering this splendid land because of the boom and bust nuclear power industry. As it goes downhill we are destroying our heritage. According to American sources no industry has ever declined as rapidly as the nuclear power industry. The senior aid to  Mr James  Schlesinger who is the Energy Secretary said: 
The great nuclear power boom that was forecast 10 years ago is never going to happen. 
We are destroying our heritage for an industry which is going downhill and which may never rise again. Even our own Atomic Energy Commission has reported that demand for Australia 's uranium by the mid-1980s will be drastically down on past estimates. We have the time to establish the basic facts about the enviroment and to find out what the dangers really are before we start, but we are not going to do it. All the danger signs have been pointed out to us. We know what has happened in other countries which have allowed the environment to be polluted, but we are not going to learn by them. Why? Because we have to get the uranium out of the ground. The uranium miners believe that if they do not get it out of the ground and sell it now they may never sell it. I think that they are right. Why will they not sell it? Other countries are finding that the costs of producing energy from uranium are too high and that the other consequences that may come from using it are much too high to take a chance with. 
One of the sureties we are given by the Government is the Supervising Scientist. It is very hard to see from the Bill how much freedom the Supervising Scientist will have to act. He will certainly not have the power to step in and stop things when he finds they are going wrong. He has the power only to advise that things are going wrong. Other people take the steps.  Senator Jessop  spoke highly of  Mr Fry.  I think it was mainly because they had been to school together. I do not doubt  Mr Fry's  integrity but I believe that he is committed to the mining of uranium. One of the reasons I believe that is that throughout the past two or three years in debates in Victoria on the pros and cons of uranium mining on many occasions  Mr Fry  attended those debates as the adviser to the mining companies who were taking a pro-uranium stand. I do not doubt  Mr Fry's  integrity but I doubt his ability to be evenhanded in the matter of dangers to the environment. I think that he is committed to the mining of uranium. Therefore, he will see any dangers in a lesser light than people who are not so committed to the mining of uranium. 
The composition of the Co-ordinating Committee worries the Opposition. We do not believe that it is a co-ordinating committee in any way. It certainly will not co-ordinate all the people who have concern with the area. It comprises nominees from federal departments of a government committed to uranium mining. It has representatives of mining companies who are committed to uranium mining. I cannot see that those people will see all around the questions and the dangers which may arise. I certainly cannot see how mining companies will in any way see the problems or will understand the feelings of the Aboriginal people in that area. I recall that the mining industry had an annual dinner in Canberra some time ago. The leading paragraph in a news story about that dinner stated: 
The joke of" the night at the mining industry's annual dinner in Canberra this week had as its main gag line the fact that a gorilla was mistaken for an Aboriginal in a fur coat. 
I cannot see that people who treat other human beings in that fashion will be very disturbed about sacred sites being tampered with or destroyed by fumes, people or blasting. I cannot expect that people who could laugh at something as boorish as that would be very worried about Aboriginal rights to the land, how they live or where they live. Yet these are the sorts of people on the Co-ordinating Committee. 
The Government is bringing in extraordinary precautions to protect a commercial enterprise. It is refusing to bring in strong controls over that commercial enterprise. It provides for the appointment of a Supervising Scientist who will have no authority and for the establishment of a co-ordinating committee which will be made up mainly of people from the industry. Yet, overall, we have the oppressive threat that the people of Australia might not be given information about what is going on there. In some ways I find that the most extraordinary feature of the legislation. Yet, in this extraordinary industry, how can we find anything extraordinary? 
Why should the people not know what is going on in their Park? Why should they not know if there is an accident or pollution or if the whole project is not going well? I bet my bottom dollar that there will be plenty of information about how sweet things are going. No stopper will be put on that son of information getting out. But this legislation specifically prohibits information on other areas of the mining industry in the Kakadu National Park being given to the people. Why is this so? We all know why; it is because the miners are afraid. They know that the first accident will bring to a head the resolve of the Australian people to leave uranium alone- to leave the Park whole and untouched. So we will not be allowed to talk about any of the difficulties which might arise because that would be the finish of the mining. We have cover-ups and evasions and we will never know the facts. Once the companies start mining under the legislation which this Government wants to put through, we will not even be allowed in to look at what is going on. 
With all this pressure on the non-miners, if the Government's stated concern about the environment is real, why has it not put any pressure on the miners? Why do we impose extraordinary fines and extraordinary jail sentences only upon non-miners? Why will miners not be fined or imprisoned for any breach of the regulations? Why must they not ensure the total safety of the project? Why must they not give a complete assurance of this before one sod is turned? We are not in a hurry; we have time. We can allow them time to research and to discover totally safe measures. Perhaps this way we might achieve more caution. If the miners were to have the threat of a fine of $50,000 or 20 years gaol hanging over them they would be more careful. But no, they dig now and we pay later. We know that the Government is not prepared to bring in regulations which would make the mining of uranium totally safe and which would put the onus on the miners to prevent any pollution whatsoever. We all know that it is going to be impossible for them to mine uranium there without there being danger to the miners, to the environment and to us all. 
At the dreaded risk of appearing emotional on the subject, I shall quote a resolution which was published by the National Council of Churches in America, which set up a committee to investigate nuclear power. I think we should take serious note of this resolution, which states: 
We are charged by God to be caretakers of Creation, not only for ourselves, but for the future generations. Even if tonight were the world's last night, the decisions we take should be such that future generations would have no cause to curse us. The sheer time-span of potential dangers involved in the decision on whether or not to pursue plutonium as a major source lifts it above many apparently similar decisions: we are talking literally about the future of humanity. 
We are talking literally about the future of humanity when we agree that uranium should be mined. We are talking about the future of humanity and its heritage when we talk about endangering the Kakadu National Park by allowing uranium mining in any portion of that Park. I believe that we should not mine uranium at all. Surely those people who believe that we should mine uranium can take the time to ensure unconditional safety. In the meantime, because there is no shortage of uranium- as the Australian uranium miners know only too well- we should leave this area undisturbed in its splendour. 
I would like to raise a matter with the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  while we are dealing with section 7 1 of the principal Act. Proposed new paragraph (d) of section 71 (2) of the legislation reads: 
regulating or prohibiting the pollution of soil, air or water in a manner that is, or is likely to be, harmful to people or wildlife in, or to the natural features of, parks and reserves; 
I question the use of the word 'regulating'. I would have thought from what the Government has said about its feelings about national parks and wildlife conservation that it was of a mind to keep those areas safe and unpolluted and that it would have been more in line with those statements to have prohibited pollution rather than to regulate it. Once we talk about regulating pollution we accept that there will be some pollution; we simply do not put limits on the amount of pollution that there can be, but we  will  regulate the amount that there can be. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1 969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Redevelopment of airways facilities at Adelaide Airport, South Australia. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1 969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Off-shore high security animal quarantine station at West Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands- review of fifth report 1973. 
-It is becoming patently obvious that the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  takes our point that, until all the States have accepted a code, we will not have a code. One cannot help wondering: Why the haste. I have a copy of a teleprinter mesage from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to all State Premiers which perhaps provides some clue. In part, the teleprinter message reads: 
The proposed amendments also provide a firm legal basis for the application of safeguards within Australia in accordance with our international obligations. 
Presumably the phrase 'our international obligations' means that there has to be a code of safeguards which will apply all over Australia. It seems to me that all we are doing is putting up some sort of smokescreen. As the Minister said, we could put up a code of the highest possible standards. I agree with him. We could, indeed, put up for acceptance in this Parliament a code of the highest possible standards, but there would be no substance to that code- there would be no substance behind that facade- until each State accepted the code. What we want to know- what we have been asking- is: Why the rush? If the Government seriously means what it says when it claims that it wants the highest possible code of safeguards, I say that it has to wait until it has consulted with all the States, until the highest possible denominator has been achieved, and until all the States agree and then we can say internationally that we have a code of safeguards. I think that out international friends- the people who are looking to us to stand up to our obligations- might be interested in knowing that we are putting through a Bill which will not really provide any code of safeguards in Australia. 
Will the Minister representing the Treasurer inform the Senate whether the Treasurer was the Minister who vetoed the plan of the Commissioner of Taxation to have a team of investigators visit Norfolk Island? If it was not the Treasurer was it the Minister responsible for that area, the Minister for Administrative Services,  Senator Withers?  Will the investigation now take place and will a report be presented to Parliament? 
I present the following petition from 1,191 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That Item 6469 of the standard Medical Benefits Table is the means by which payment is made for the slaughter of thousands of unborn babies every year. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government should ensure that Item 6469 is removed from the standard Medical Benefits Table. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 9 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament Assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned members and ex members of the Citizens Forces of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
On 14 February 1973, the then Australian Government deprived the Officers and men of the Australian Citizen Naval Military and Air Forces of the distinctive and historic Decorations and Medals for long service and good conduct, namely the Reserve Decoration, the Efficiency Decoration, the Air Efficiency Award, the Efficiency Medal and Long Service and Good Conduct Medals, awarded for long and meritorious voluntary service in the citizen forces: 
The proposed substitution of the National Medal for these Decorations and Medals varies the principle of selective recognition of efficient voluntary service in the citizen forces in that it recognises the period of service only and embraces also full time service as well in the defence forces as in the police, fire brigade and ambulance services: 
This deprivation caused and is continuing to cause serious discontent amongst personnel of the Citizens Forces who willingly and cheerfully give of their spare time outside their normal full time civilian careers, to serve Her Majesty and Australia: 
The Reserve Forces of Australia have been recognised by the present Government as a valuable- and costeffective component of the Defence Forces. Anomalously, whilst the Government is actually supporting recruiting for these Forces it has imposed and continued this deprivation which as foresaid has depressed the morale of the Citizen Forces: 
Her Majesty has not cancelled the said Decorations and Medals. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray 
Your Honourable House take appropriate action to resume the award of the several distinctive Reserve Forces Decorations and Medals for Long Service and Good Conduct to members of the Royal Australian Naval Reserve, Army Reserve (CMF) and the RAAF Citizens Air Force. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. The Minister has reported that sums totalling some millions of dollars are owed to Medibank by private health funds because of payments made by Medibank on behalf of private funds during the period of restructuring the health scheme so that individual contributors would not be disadvantaged. The Hospital Benefits Association in Victoria, which owes $ 1.04m, has said that it will not pay the money. What action is the Government taking to see that the amounts owing are paid? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has made a call to the United Nations to reduce immediately the stock of nuclear weapons and to prohibit future production of bomb grade material for nuclear weapons. Does it follow then that there was truth in the story presented by an Australian newspaper last year that Australia had been offered neutrality in exchange for sites for nuclear waste and that the Government had accepted the offer? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to the International Year of the Child. In view of the involvement of the nursing profession with children and its strong desire to take part and contribute, will the Minister give further consideration to inviting an appropriate representative of the nursing profession to join the national committee on non-government organisations relating to the International Year of the Child? 
I  present the following petition from 4 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petitioning of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
Your petitioners desire to draw to the attention of the Government that removal of Section No. 6469 on Health Refunds would affect a women's right to claim a rebate through Medical Health Insurance. 
Furthermore, as Section 6469 on Health Refunds is the item for abortion removing the Medical Rebate for Item No. 6469 would penalize many thousands of women. 
Your petitioners are strongly opposed to the removal of No. 6469 from the Medical Rebate list. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 1 76 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned, support the Land Claims of the Tasmanian Aboriginal people for: 
All mutton bird islands surrounding Tasmania 
b ) All areas where Aboriginal rock carving sites exist 
Cape Barren Island 
) Wyballena on Flinders Island 
Compensation for all unalienated Crown lands, otherwise these lands be returned in trust to Aboriginal people. 
We further request that prompt acton bc taken by the Federal and Tasmanian Governments to secure these rights. 
And your petitioners as in duly bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 96 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Federal Government recognise Land Rights in the States, such as Queensland in a similar manner to the recognition of Land Rights in the Northern Territory, that is enact an Aboriginal Land Rights Act for Queensland; 
That the Federal Government support the abolition of the Aborigines Act (Queensland) 1971. and the Torres Strait Islanders Act (Queensland) 1971 and take such action as they deem necessary to ensure that the provisions of the Queensland Discriminating Laws Act, 1975 and the Racial Discrimination Act, 1975 be enforced in so far as they relate to Aborigines and Islanders: 
That the Federal Government assume responsibility for Aboriginal Affairs under the powers given it by the Referendum 1967. The State Department of Aboriginal and Island Administration (Queensland) should be abolished and Aboriginal and Island reserves should have the choice to be self-governed with local government status. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 39 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President,  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petitioning of the undersigned Citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
As Section 6469 on Health Refunds is the number for currette and abortion, to remove Medical Rebate for No. 6469 would be penalising thousands of women, (particularly those aged 50 years and over) who must have a curette for medical reasons having nothing to do with pregnancy. 
Furthermore you petitioners desire to draw to the Government's attention that removal of No. 6469 would transgress a woman's right to the rebate available via medical health insurance. 
Furthermore, the removal of No. 6469 would be a discrimination against women, as rebates are paid for vasectomy and prostate operations for males. 
Your petitioners strongly oppose the removal of No. 6469 from the Medical Rebate list. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 June 1 978: 
1 ) Did the Treasurer veto the plan of the Taxation Commission to send a team of investigators to Norfolk Island; if not, was the Minister responsible for Norfolk Island (the Minister for Administrative Services) responsible for this action. 
Will the investigation now take place and will a report be presented to the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, without notice, on 13 April 1978: 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Administrative Services who is in charge of electoral matters. By way of preamble let me say that a young constituent reported to me that, on finding her name was not on the electoral roll prior to the last Federal election, although she had filled out a card, she was told by the officials: 'Do not worry about voting this time.' She reports that a 'gentleman with a foreign accent' beside her in the office was similarly advised. I ask: Is it current practice in the Commonwealth Electoral Office to dissuade people from voting? Is the Minister satisfied with the efficiency of the system for having new voters placed on the roil? If this girl had not persisted, would she have been fined for not having been enrolled at the time pf the election? 
1 present the following petition from 33 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
The demands of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island people for justice in this land which is rightfully theirs. 
We demand Land Rights now, on these principles: 
Immediate ownership rights by Tribal Groups, of land they continue to occupy. 
That all existing lands designated as Aboriginal reserves be handed over to the respective Aboriginal groups, and that the land be effectively controlled and owned by the Aboriginals in that area under their law and customs. 
That Aboriginal lands include total rights to all natural resources, and that present mining and prospecting be suspended until negotiations are held with Aboriginals. 
That land ownership and control be legally protected and regarded as inviolable. 
That Aboriginal people be compensated for the loss of all Aboriginal designated reserves, tribal lands, and other lands revoked by the Commonwealth and State Governments. 
That before compensation is decided negotiations be held to acquire those lands plus any other lands deemed necessary by the respective Aboriginal groups and tribes for their survival and benefits. 
That  any 'Crown  Lands' which are of traditional or sacred significance to Aboriginals be ceded to them in perpetuity. 
That all sites of anthropological or traditional significance to Aboriginals other than those on reserves or crown land be opened to the use of Aboriginals without fees or constraints. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Queensland Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders Acts and their regulations and by-laws be abolished forthwith, and that Land Rights be established, believing that only when these two demands arc fulfilled will Aboriginals and Torres Strait Island people begin to have their freedom and independence. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The Minister representing the Minister for Health would be familiar with that portion of the Budget Speech that deals with health and refers to people identified by their doctors as being socially disadvantaged. Can the Minister advise the criteria to be used by doctors in identifying such people? Can the Minister spell out the steps to be taken to preserve people 's privacy in such matters? 
-I rise in this debate somewhat at a loss to understand some of the remarks made by my colleagues on the other side. It seems that we live in two different worlds. To a great number of people in Australia the Government appears to be hellbent on bringing the housing industry to its knees. Yet we are told continually by honourable senators opposite that the Government is doing everything it can to stimulate the housing industry and that it is on the up and up. I am sure that the people in the housing industry and related industries who are out of work will be very pleased to know that the housing industry is being stimulated. That does not appear to have come within their ken, nor have they got their jobs back. While members on the other side tell us that the housing industry is starting to rise, we find master builders, State governments, federal departments, suppliers of material and technical schools all telling us that the industry is being beaten to a pulp and pointing out the dangers associated with the housing industry being reduced to such an extent. 
At a time when there is an enormous amount of unemployment, when the whole economy needs stimulation, when more than 100,000 Australians are looking for government housing and more than twice that number would like to build their own houses but do not have the wherewithal to do it, this Government is doing nothing to stimulate the industry. In fact, in the Budget the Government has reduced the amount of money available for public housing. It has done nothing in the Budget to lift the private sector, and housing expenditure has been slashed by one-third in the Howard Budget. How then can Government senators continue to say that the Government is doing what it can to bring the housing industry up to the level of some years ago so that it can do the job that we know needs doing in Australia at the moment? 
The Government admits that the housing industry is important to the economy, yet the industry is at its lowest ebb since 1967 and the Government is going to do nothing about it. Housing funds have dried up and so has the ability of people to repay the loans they need to buy homes, something that seems to escape the attention of Government senators. Funds to the States have been cut back and so there is a drop in public sector building. The housing allowance voucher experiment, which was to have supplied information on the housing rental market and on the quantity and quality of houses that might be needed, has been eliminated after two years planning and a cost of $ 1 m. Evidently we are no longer interested in the sort of rental accommodation that people need, or is it that because there are so many people now who need to rent rather than buy and there are a number of houses and flats on the market that nobody can let because people do not have the money, we no longer need to find out about the quantity and quality of accommodation needed by people who normally rent housing? The home savings grants scheme has been eliminated. It was not a tremendous scheme for helping people to buy houses but it was of some help and it has been eliminated. The Government has not told us what will happen to the people already in the pipeline who had applied for the grant and had saved their money and now evidently are to be left without any assistance whatsoever. They were dependent on that money to finalise the purchase of their homes. They will now be without the money and so fewer homes will be sold, more homes will be put on the market, and fewer building workers will be employed. 
In other areas the Government has been less than responsible about the money that is supposed to be spent in the housing field. This Federal Government makes money available to State governments for Aboriginal housing. The money is supposed to provide houses for Aboriginal people, and there are hundreds of Aboriginal people who need houses. In this day and age people in Victoria are sleeping in humpies on river banks because they cannot get houses or cannot afford the only houses that might be available to them in that area. This Government has not said to the Government of Victoria: 'Stop spending the money we give you for Aboriginal housing on useless wasteful things such as carports for people who have not got houses or even a licence to drive, on painting the outside of houses that do not need painting, on pulling down fences that do not need pulling down and putting up wire fences'. Instead of demanding that houses be built for people who need them, the Government has allowed the money to be frittered away on all sorts of useless maintenance of houses. It has allowed State governments to buy houses and then spend extraordinary amounts of money on maintaining them or bringing them up to a stage where people can decently live in them. 
Even in areas where the Government could be putting money into the building of houses for people who need them it has done nothing about its obligations. There are people who do not want handouts for housing. The women who served in the defence forces in the last war so far have been denied Defence Force loans to build houses, and I emphasise the word 'loans'. They have not asked to be given money, they have asked for loans which they will repay, loans that would enable them to build houses and live decently and comfortably in their old age. But this Government says: 'We cannot afford to do that'. So another area of great need which would provide some sort of stimulation for the building industry is ignored by the Government. In its Budget the Government has abandoned aged persons housing projects and the hundreds and hundreds of aged people in Australia who desperately need decent accommodation in which to grow old are not going to get it. The Government is not going to supply the funds to assist in the building of the houses and flats that aged people need and so another area of great need in the community which would provide a stimulus to the building industry is being ignored. The Government is turning its back on it entirely. 
The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  said that the building industry is in disarray. The industry is in disarray, but what this Government has to remember is that it has been in office now for nearly three years and when it first came into Government it said that it wanted three clear years in which to get things back to normal, to get industry moving. How much longer does it need to do something about the building industry? How many more indications does it need that the building industry requires stimulus or the country is going to fall in a heap? We are told by one of our colleagues on the other side that the Government's plan to increase the intake of migrants will help to swell demand and so stimulate the building industry. Would he mind telling me, in the light of the amount of unemployment in the country at the moment, where these people are going to get the money to buy houses? If the Government is not going to provide the money to build houses for them in the public sector, in what are they going to live? It is very easy to say: We are going to bring out more migrants and supply more needs', but people need to have money in their hands to buy houses- and they have not that money. 
What will people in Australia use for money as unemployment rises? The circumstances become a vicious circle. We have more unemployed so there is less money with which to buy houses. There is less money to buy houses, so there is less money to spend on materials. There is less sale of houses and there is less sale of materials, so there is more unemployment; as a result there is less money to spend on houses and less money to put into industry and so forth and so on. If we go on that way the industry will vanish. 
The Minister spoke about the fact that for a long time now in Australia it has been a joint spouse income that has purchased houses. We have spoken of that before and it is true. It is true in lots of ways, one being not, as the Government says, that wages have been so high, but because wages have been so low. So people have needed two incomes to live as they want to live. The Government may say that perhaps the standard of living of the Australian people is too high, but I am not going out to the Australian people to say that the standard of living that they set for themselves is too high. For many years now- and unions should have looked at this matter too when they were looking at wage claims- it has taken two incomes to buy a house. Women have not gone to work to express themselves: They have gone to work to provide the money to buy the house. Rising unemployment- especially in the areas in which women work- and so many women being out of jobs, mean that the family income has been cut in half. This in turn means that people who now have houses are terribly worried whether they will be able to go on paying for them. People who want houses have not anything like the income needed to buy those houses, which means that there will be even less work in industry generally, even less work in the housing industry. So there will be even less money and fewer jobs with which to purchase these houses. The only body that can do something about that horrific situation is a government- a responsible government. It is no good citing the number of unsold houses. It is no good talking about the lowering of interest rates. If people have not the money- and they do not have the money if they are unemployed- it does not matter how many houses are on the market or how low the interest rates are because they will not be able to do anything about the situation. 
The Minister says that banks and housing societies are being encouraged to extend their home loans. I repeat: If there are no jobs, it does not matter how far the banks and housing societies extend their terms; people will not be able to take up that offer. The fact that people are not going to be able to take up the offer and the fact that they cannot affordhouses is shown in so many different publications today. I have here a copy of the quarterly  Survey of Manufacturing Activity  which shows just how much these varying industries are being depressed. It states: 
Textiles 
. textile fibres, yarns and fabrics . . . 
While sales in both current and price adjusted terms decreased during the March quarter . . . 
Wood, Wood Products and Furniture 
Overall sales for the March quarter decreased substantially . . 
Paper and Paper Products, Printing and Publishing 
The overall level of sales for the group declined marginally during the March quarter . . . 
Chemicals, Petroleum and Coal Products 
The overall level of sales in the March quarter fell by 12 percent. 
Glass, Clay and Other Non-Metallic Mineral Products 
There was an overall decline in sales in this industry in the March quarter . . . 
Basic Metal Products 
Sales for the March quarter fell in both constant and price adjusted terms . . . 
Fabricated Metal Products 
The fabricated metal products group recorded a significant decrease in sales during the quarter ended March. 
Transport Equipment 
The significant overall decrease in sales during the March quarter . . . 
Other Machinery and Equipment 
In the March quarter sales in this industry fell by 13 per cent . . . 
Leather, Rubber and Plastic Products and Manufacturing 
Overall sales in the industry fell by 10 per cent in the March quarter . . . 
Of course they fell; nobody has the money to buy the products and nobody has the money to buy the houses in which to put the products. Unless this Government does something about unemployment, it might as well stop talking about the economy being lifted because there is no way in which it can be. 
The Government has a mania about not entering into the private sector, yet we know that all these products are produced in the private sector. Large construction firms like Jennings Industries Ltd in Victoria are at their lowest ebb for 25 years. That firm said that if something is not done it will go out of existence altogether. Public works in Victoria have been cut by 25 per cent. For each vacancy in the building industry in Victoria, 24 unemployed skilled tradesmen apply. In the apprenticeship area, for every one vacancy for every apprenticeship, there are 166 applicants. This means we are not only losing employment in that area, we are losing skill. If this Government does not look at the difficulties squarely, it will put Australia into an intolerable position. The Government admits that the housing industry is a sensitive industry. It is a basic principle that in a country as rich and as prosperous as Australia can be, everybody should have decent housing. If this Government does not put the stimulus into that area and supply the people of Australia with decent housing, the industry will degenerate. We will lose employment; there will be no stimulus whatsoever to growth and the stimulus to that economy that is so essential to Australia's future will not eventuate. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. There is a deal of confusion over funding now available for aged persons accommodation. These facilities were being funded on the basis of $230m being provided over a triennium. Will the Minister advise whether this amount has been fully allocated? If not, what amount remains to be allocated? Have all the allocations been taken up? If not, how much of the unused allocations can be released for other people to use? What are the Minister's expectations about the future funding for aged persons accommodation? 
I present the following petition from 45 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President,  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled, the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
As Section 6469 on Health Refunds is the number for curette and abortion, to remove Medical Rebate for No. 6469 would be penalising thousands of women (particularly those aged 50 years and over) who must have a curette for medical reasons having nothing to do with pregnancy. 
Furthermore your petitioners desire to draw to the Government's attention that removal of No. 6469 would transgress a woman 's right to the rebate available via medical health insurance. 
Furthermore, the removal of No. 6469 would be a discrimination against women, as rebates are paid for vasectomy and prostate operations for males. 
Your petitioners strongly oppose the removal of No. 6469 from the Medical Rebate list and your petitioners, in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Radio Station 3CR, Melbourne 
I present the following petition from 154 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled, we the undersigned citizens do hereby petition you to control the forest damage caused by the woodchip industry. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. By way of preamble I point out that in his policy speech the Treasurer said that experience had suggested that the Special Youth Employment Training Program is unduly advantaging younger age groups to the detriment of older age groups. Is this why the Government has refused further funding to the Farmhouse in Mitcham, Victoria, which for the past two years has been run as a project to improve the self-confidence and jobseeking abilities of young people in the area? As the State Government refuses to supply further funds and as the number of participants in the project has doubled sinced last February in this area of rapidly increasing unemployment among young people, will the Government reconsider the matter and the urgency of the problem and prevent the closure of this most important project? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, without notice, on 3 May 1978: 
In view of the increasing amount of information coming from the scientific investigation of the effects of radiation on the human body which shows fairly conclusively that the dose of radiation which may produce cancer is less than half the amount allowed in industry in Australia, is the Government considering as a matter of urgency initiating an inquiry into the conditions of workers who have worked in such industries over the last 30 years with a view to producing safeguards for workers who are currently subject to radiation in their place of employment. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity. I explain that in May of this year I asked the Minister whether, as a matter of urgency, he would initiate an inquiry into the health of workers who had been subject to radiation in their work place. In a reply received only recently the Minister maintained that this was unnecessary because 'personal monitoring of a large section of Australian radiation workers over many years shows that doses received by them are, in general, only a small fraction of the set standards'. I now ask whether the Minister will inform the Senate of the details of that monitoring, the number of workers checked, the period of time over which they were checked, the industries they were engaged in and the nature of the monitoring, together with information regarding those areas of industry where radiation is a risk but which have not been monitored. 
I take advantage of the first reading debate on the Dairying Industry Research and Promotion Levy Amendment Bill to widen the field a little and to raise questions regarding the promotion overseas of Australian goods. I am back in the 
Senate after spending some weeks overseas. It was a rather quick trip through six or seven different countries, not all of which are connected with the European Economic Community. During that time I went shopping in suburban areas of cities in those countries. I walked through markets, supermarkets and department stores and I rode on buses and trains and walked through cities. Yet nowhere did I find any promotion of Australian goods, of Australian dairy produce or of any other sort of Australian produce. I bought food in those areas. I ate that food. I ate and drank in restaurants. Over and over again one could tell from the sight, taste and quality of the food that one was not eating and drinking Australian products. 
I acknowledge that trade barriers in some of these countries make difficulties, but while we are trumpeting loudly about breaking into EEC markets and are making excuses about not breaking into markets in other parts of the world, I wonder why we do not promote the quality of Australian foods which might help break down those barriers in some parts of the world and might help to break through the barriers which are erected in other parts of the world. If Hawaiian pineapples, Florida oranges, English apples and French wines can become household names throughout the world in areas where those goods are not even sold or eaten and can be promoted to worldwide acclaim, I do not see why the delicious flavour, size and choice quality of Australian produce cannot also be promoted to become household names. In my opinion this sort of quality and the flavour that we produce in food in Australia must be a selling point and should be promoted. 
I was brought up on Australian apples, on fresh jonathans, granny smiths and golden delicious. I went overseas and because I love apples I bought them. In England, for instance, I found tasteless, old, bruised and very expensive produce. All I get from the Apple and Pear Board here is a circular telling me what apples arrive in England and when. It does not tell me much about how we promote those apples. I must say that in various parts of Australia it is hard enough to buy Australian apples or even to know that we produce apples. Apple trees are pulled out wholesale in Australia. But overseas people would not think that we ever grew an apple in Australia. If the succulence, crispness and freshness of Australian apples could be promoted to the point of making one's mouth water, perhaps we could break into some of those markets or at least have the people in those areas aspire to taste our produce. We always used to be told that the epitomy of apples were English Cox's orange pippins. After eating them I wonder why. I am sorry for the people who have to rely on that tasteless product when they could have Australian apples. 
If we promote the quality of Australian fruit I do not see why we should not have people queueing up for it, as presumably they queue up for Hawaiian pineapples. If the size, flavour and texture of Australian pineapples could be sold and promoted overseas and if people overseas could see the quality of our fruit, perhaps we might sell some of those pineapples in place of the pigmy-sized and sickly sweet fruit that one encounters under the name of pineapple in England. So one could continue. Australian cheeses, which come under the jurisdiction of the Dairy Produce Board, have texture, bite and flavour. They are a vast improvement on the dull mediocrity that is served up as cheese so often overseas. 
Then we come to wines. If there is one joy about coming home to Australia it is the joy of returning to Australian wines. With the exception of America, wines are not cheap. After having drunk bottle after bottle of wine overseas, I think that it would do very well as paint remover in some instances. For American wines one could not possibly be charged any more for what one gets. But where is the promotion of Australian wines? I had a conversation with some Frenchmen about trade and the difficulties of the EEC and what might happen if crops fail. I said: 'Well, the French might even contemplate importing Australian wines if phylloxera hit their vineyards tomorrow'. The face of one of the Frenchmen lit up and he said: 'What joy! Fancy having those marvellous wines here to drink. I cannot think of anything better'. We know the problems that the French have with their farmers. In some ways the problems are very similar to the ones that we have with our farmers. But when does the Australian Wine Board or this Government take the advantage of promoting Australian wines? I went to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference in Jamaica. It does not seem to me to be beyond the realms of possibility for Australian delegations to take cases of Australian wines to such conferences and serve them when it has a party. Then when delegates go back to their countries, even if trade barriers exist there, at least they will know what they are missing. This sort of promotion would involve a piddling amount of money. We miss out on promotional opportunities like that because money is not provided. We have the expertise in this country. We have the skill but we hide it. We do not take advantage of promoting the very good produce and products that we have. We are not proud enough of what we produce in Australia and we are not proud enough when we promote it. 
I return to the subject of Australian wool. In some parts of France the people think that we in Australia are mad. We produce the best wool in the world. Once we produced woollen cloth that was equal to what was produced in other parts of the world. But we do not produce cloth in Australia any more. If a person in Australia wants to clothe kiddies in wool it cannot be done; it cannot be bought. The wool has to be sent overseas to be cleaned and to be woven; then it is returned to us and sold at a price that we cannot afford to pay. Why cannot a country that produces the best wool in the world also sell the best woollen articles in the world? We have the designers and we have the workmanship. From observation of clothing overseas I would say that there is nothing overseas that one cannot buy in Australia when it comes to workmanship, colour or design. Our clothes are beautiful yet where overseas would people know that we produce clothes of that sort, apart from small pockets in some countries? 
Moving on to another area, we are often told that Australia is a backward country; that there are many things we cannot do and that we do not, for instance, provide the standard of accommodation that would attract tourists to Australia. All I can say is that many of the people who make those statements have never had to stay in second-class hotels in other parts of the globe, otherwise they would not run down the standard of accommodation that Australian hotels and motels offer. We might not be able to provide a grand suite of rooms in Warrnambool but certainly, right across this country, we can provide first-class accommodation and plenty of it at a price that ordinary people can afford, which is more than can be said for many countries. It is certainly more than can be said for the standard of accommodation that can be found in many countries. 
One area in which Australia could have excelled, an area in which it could have been promoted and one in which it could have been the tops, is the area of solar energy. I was ashamed when I found in a little country like Holland, one that has more cloud cover than most other countries, that industry and government had combined in extensive experimentation to make solar energy work for the Dutch. 
What are we in Australia doing,  Mr Minister,  to promote Australia as the capital of the solar energy world. It would appear that California is determined to be the solar energy capital yet we were ahead. We had the expertise and we had the running. But because nobody cared, because the researchers were starved of funds, because programs were cut off in mid-term and because evidently nobody cared about having the expertise or having excellence in that field, we did not go ahead with solar energy. It is an area of vital importance. We have a government that is preoccupied with uranium. Evidently it refuses to take up the difficulties in the other areas and it neglects other areas. So again, in an area in which Australian expertise and Australian excellence could have been promoted, we have missed the boat. 
All our effort is half-hearted. We talk about trade missions overseas, we talk about promoting Australian goods, yet we do not do anything about promoting the standards of excellence that we could promote and that we could export. Certainly we have a government that believes in private enterprise but there are some areas in which governments must govern and governments must promote, and only government funds and government encouragement can succeed. We need government encouragement, I believe, and active promotion of our excellent produce, of our excellent workmanship, of our excellent products and expertise. I urge this Government to promote Australian goods vigorously and expertly. Let the world look with anticipation at the word Australian' on the trademarks and on the labels on goods that are of an excellence that only Australians can produce. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: Is it true that patients at Repatriation artificial limb establishments are subjected to long waiting periods for artificial limbs and for appointments? Is this largely because of a shortage of trained staff in these establishments and a high number of trainee staff? Is the shortage of trained staff due to the fact that on completion of their ordinary training these tradesmen must undergo special training in their specific areas and that they then find their wages no better and, in most cases, worse than they can obtain in their own trades outside this special industry? What steps does the Government intend taking to remedy this situation? 
-Senator Puplick, who has just resumed his seat, is a breath of fresh air. It is a privilege to follow him. We started this debate with much talk about it being not about abortion but about whether certain ordinances should be allowed. But at last the 
Senate has faced facts and is talking about the real matter on which we have crossed swords. The Minister said that the Government would not go against the expressed will of the people of the Australian Capital Territory. It then decided to take notice of 24 per cent instead of 70 per cent of the population because of the pressure of a noisy minority which wants to mind the conscience of the majority of the population. There has been no such campaign about other ordinances in the Australian Capital Territory. There has been no campaign about such things as collecting rubbish, bus routes, casinos or even dogs although the subject of dogs did come close to attracting such a campaign. There has never been such a misinformed campaign in Australia as there has been over this issue. People have been writing letters and signing cards obviously without any idea of the current situation or of the matters that are subject to debate. As has been said, when letters are received from six-year-old and seven-year-old children, who do not know anything about life, asking us not to murder children, those who are putting together the campaign had better look at their own moral standards. 
All this has been said before. We are now at the stage at which honourable senators are in fact stating their personal reasons for either supporting or opposing the motion moved by  Senator Ryan.  I support it. I find it appalling that the people who take the anti-abortion line can seriously believe that women have abortions for cosmetic reasons, that women take abortions lightly, that they have them for no serious reason but just for their own convenience. I firmly believe that no woman ever takes an abortion lightly. She has one because of what seems to her to be overpowering difficulties. Where are the anti-abortionists when those difficulties arise? They talk about killing children. What sort of a person would want to kill a child? These people very carefully forget the horrific problems that women have to face. They take no responsibility for the poverty, the drudgery, the violence, the hunger, the illness, the despair, the lack of hope and the pain that women have to suffer in these circumstances. These are the hard questions to answer. It is easy for people to say that abortion means killing a child, but where are these people when these questions have to be answered and what are their answers to these questions? The unfortunate women are left to wrestle with those problems on their own. 
There are people who talk about the sanctity of life but then say that a woman's life is threatened an abortion is reasonable. At what stage is a woman's life threatened? Is it threatened only when she is on the operating table or is it threatened when she is starved, beaten and kicked and when she is so far down that she no longer looks upon herself as a human being? Is her life threatened then? Where are these campaigners when a woman does not believe that she has any life in front of her? They are not interested in solving the problem of doing away with the necessity for an abortion. A vast number of the people who come to this country, people who have come here from Europe, literally use abortion as a contraceptive device. That is appalling. It is appalling to most of us who live in this fat, rich land but in the countries from which these people have come there was no advice, there was no assistance and there was no hope and that was the only means available to them of trying to cope with the problem of pregnancy. What are the people who call themselves the 'right to lifers' doing about those women there and what are they doing about those women here? They are doing nothing. They are not trying to solve their problems for them. 
Are people being pressured into writing letters on this subject? When I receive a number of letters that are written on the same type of paper, written with the same words and posted in the same type of envelope from the same office, I wonder just how much these letters really do express the views of the people who have signed them. I wonder how much pressure has been brought to bear on them and what opportunity these people have been given to express their true feelings about this problem. I suppose that if one were to stand outside the hospitals and clinics where abortions are performed and ask the people going into these places for an abortion to sign a card before they went in saying that they believed in abortion it would be called unfair tactics, exploitive and putting unfair pressure on people. I suppose that girls in offices who are anxious to keep their jobs would not have been pressured into signing anti-abortion letters! I suppose that little kids of six, seven and 10 years of age who do not know anything about life would not have been pressured into signing such letters! 

 Senator Walters said that everybody finds the question concerning abortion too hard to answer. I think the anti-abortionists find the questions too easy to answer. When they resort to having pimply-faced boys of 1 5 years of age standing outside hospitals and screaming at some anxious woman that she is murdering her child their morality is very much in question and they are finding the answers far too easy. They are the ones who are pressuring women more and more and they are the ones who are not facing up to the real problems. Where are the people who are blackmailing us with regard to our votes while millions of babies starve to death in, say, Africa? Where are the people who write to me and say: We are watching which way you vote and there are six adults in this house who also are watching which way you vote?' Where are they in light of the increasing mortality rate amongst Aboriginal babies in Australia? Are they participating in the campaign against nuclear energy because of its threat to life in the future and its threat to the lives of unborn babies? They cannot be found. I do not get any letters from them on the other subjects. Nobody sends me cards with my name printed on them to ask me to ensure that something is done about those problems. Evidently some life is precious but not all life because the people who talk about abortion being a threat to life allow abortions in some instances. Either all life is precious or all life can take its chance. The same people talk about 'just wars'. Again, either all life is precious or only some life is precious. I think they should look to their own morality when they recruit young people to this righttolife campaign and they should teach those young people that right to life means each and every person's responsiblity to life in every instance, not just in some circumstances. 
These people are the ones who leave rich ground for abortion clinics. These people are the ones who are going to make private abortionists very rich. Because they do nothing about the problems that cause women to have an abortion. These people force women into such areas. I have never heard these people come out and run a campaign to find out in which backyards of Canberra an abortion is being done with appalling results. If they really care about the health of the women and children in the Australian Capital Territory they should go out and find those butchers and do something about them. But remember that they are there only because desperate women will find the means of having an abortion. 
There has been talk of providing children for childless couples to adopt. If people are so anxious to provide children for childless couples to adopt, I suggest that they establish stud farms. There has been talk about increasing the Australian population. I say to the people who come out with that theory that women are not factories to be turned off and on. We are not a natural resource to which a country can turn at times when it needs a greater population and then dismiss and put under wraps when it no longer needs an increase in population. We are human beings with a mind and a conscience of our own. 
I believe that the right to life is most important. 1 have great respect for many of the people who have written to me and stated their views. I have great respect for their views but they are their views. I would not force them to have an abortion. I would not lightly suggest to anybody that she should have an abortion and I would not have an abortion. But they must respect my right to weigh up the pros and cons and make those decisions which safeguard my life and ensure that my children grow up in the best possible circumstances. I have no time or respect for the people who take the easy way out. 
Abortion is a very difficult problem for people to face up to. But there is one time, I believe, when men should have a conscience vote; there is one time when men should have a conscience. The time to examine that freedom, the time to take that responsibility, is before they have intercourse, before there is any likelihood of a child eventuating. They should not take on the role of the guardian of my conscience after that has taken place. I have six children. I love them. I would not have an abortion but that was my decision to make. I expect love, understanding, protection and concern when I make that decision. I expect governments to legislate to protect me from charlatans, rogues and exploiters and to promote a good life for my children, and I will make the decision about whether I should have children. I urge the Senate to support  Senator Ryan's  motion. 
I present the following petition from 78 citizens of Australia: 
The Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the Victorian Federation of State School Parents ' Clubs respectfully showeth:- 
That as citizens of Victoria and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our school be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for: 
.  Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of S per cent in real terms on base level programs for 1979. 
Restoration of the $8m cut from the Capital Grams for Government Schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools.  and your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 19 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate, in Parliament Assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the Fraser Government was elected in December 1975 after promising that pensions would be adjusted instantly and automatically in relation to quarterly Consumer Price Index Figures; 
And whereas the Government subsequently announced that pension adjustments should properly be made half yearly each May and November; 
It is the current intention of the same Government to legislate for pensions to be adjusted only once a year, and this constitutes a serious breach of generally accepted ethics, of Democratic Governmnent, and also deprives many needy pensioners of increases that are essential to their Subsistence. 
The foregoing facts impel the under-signed Petitioners to request the Australian Government to uphold the principle that trustworthiness of Governments should at all times be above question. 
And to appeal to the Parliament to prevent the imposition of further economic hardship upon Australian pensioners, by rejecting any Bill which has for its aim the introduction of annual adjustments of Pension rates. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Human Rights in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. On 2 June this year I reminded the Minister that the Minister for Health had reported that sums totalling some millions of dollars were owed to Medibank by private health funds because of payments made by Medibank on behalf of private funds during the period of restructuring the health scheme so that individual contributors would not be disadvantaged. I pointed out that the Hospital Benefits Association of Victoria, which owed at least $ 1.4m,. said that it would not pay. I asked what action the Government intended to take to see that the amounts owed were paid. The Minister advised that the matter would be referred to the Minister for Health for reply, but I have received no reply. In view of today's report that Medibank Private is some millions of dollars in the red, I again ask what action the Government intends to take to recover money owed by private funds. 
-There are two areas about which I want some information from the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  They relate to the people who are caught up in the chronic illness position and to Medibank Private. I would like to know what is the position from the point of view of the Government of people who are caught up in the area of chronic illness. I thought that the whole system that we brought into the Parliament was designed to protect those people who were chronically ill, yet I find people continually ringing my office wanting to know what sort of coverage they have in that area. From what I have read of the Estimates Committees reports so far I still do not know the answer to those questions. I knew that prior to the current situation Federal funding was always their absolution. The private funds did not cover chronic patients but passed their cares and problems on to the Federal Government which paid their bills. I know that private funds have never assisted chronic patients, yet from some of the statements that have been made by the private funds one would find that hard to believe. 
I would like to know from the Minister what exactly is the position of chronic patients, what exactly is the assistance given to them by the private funds and what exactly is the assistance given by the Federal Government. The other matter that has worried my office in the last two days is in the area of Medibank Private. What exactly is the position of that private fund at the moment as regards financial assistance? We have heard all sorts of stories that it has problems, that it is in the red. We know that the private health insurance funds have not paid Medibank Private the money that is owing to it. I ask, for the benefit of the people who have insured themselves with Medibank Private, just what is their position, where does the Government stand in that area and what is the position of that organisation as regards its financial difficulties? 
I take up a reference in the report of the Commissioner for Community Relations. The section that was brought to my attention was a piece in the introduction which stated: 
On the other hand, wide-spread attitudinal discrimination persists, the inadequacy of public and private services for a multicultural population remains a serious problem, and the gap between Aboriginal Australians and the rest of the community continues to affect every aspect of life in every part of Australia. 
I raise this matter because of a case of blatant discrimination that has come to my attention. I cannot do better than read the letter that was sent to me by a member of the National Aboriginal Conference. It states: 
On Tuesday, 12 September 1978, 1 approached Goodman and Donaghue regarding the purchase of lot 4 at 3 1 Ross Street, Bairnsdale on behalf of the Gippsland and East Gippsland Aboriginal Co-operative Limited. 
I raise this matter under some pressure because I do not believe that matters read out in this way ordinarily assist Parliament. This case is so blatant that I do not think I can do better than read the letter. It states: 
The asking price of the land was $9,000, to which I made an offer of $8,500.  Mr Perry  the estate agent agreed to discuss my offer with the vendor whom he disclosed was a  Mr J.  Hall. On Wednesday 13 September 1978  Mr Perry  phoned, stating that the vendor was willing to split the difference of $8,750. He was advised that $8,500 was my highest offer and at about 5.30 p.m. that day  Mr Perry  phoned again to inform me that the vendor would accept the $8,500 as offered. On Thursday 14 September 1978 I lodged a holding deposit of $200 with Goodman &amp; Donaghue, with respect to lot 4, 3 1 Ross Street, Bairnsdale. Agreement was made to lodge a further $650 on receipt of the Contract of Sale which was to be available the next day, Friday 15 September 1978. On realising the name of the purchaser,  Mr Perry  remarked that the vendor may not be willing to sign the contract with the Co-Operative. A receipt was issued, the word 'Aboriginal' was omitted from the name of the CoOperative.  Mr Perry  requested the name of the Co-operative solicitor, to request permission for the word 'Aboriginal' omitted from the Contract of Sale. 
On Friday 15 September 1978 a request was made of Goodman &amp; Donaghue for a copy of the title of lot 4, to facilitate a sworn valuation.  Mr Perry  advised he was having difficulties obtaining the signature of the vendors. A copy of the title was refused. Later  Mr Perry  advised that the vendor,  Mrs Hall  was raising the price of the said land to $9,500, the reason given being that  Mr Hall  agreed to the reduction to the price of $8,500 without his wife's permission. Inquiries since made regarding the ownership of lot 4 at 3 1 Ross Street, Bairnsdale show that 3rd Tostaree Pty Ltd is the owners of the land, and  Mr J.  Hall is the Director. 
On Friday 22 September 1978  Mr P.  Moss,  Mrs R.  Ward and myself met  Mr Perry  at Goodman &amp; Donaghue 's office Main Street, Bairnsdale at 2.20 p.m.  Mr Perry  confirmed in the presence of the above persons the information regarding the raising of the price of the land in question, he also advised that he had authority to sell the land now at the new price of $9,500. We agreed to this price,  Mr Perry  was to have a 'Contract of Sale' prepared and ready for collection at 4.00 p.m. that same afternoon.  Mrs Ward  said that she would call back at 4.30 p.m. to sign the contract and pay the balance of the 10 per cent deposit required on the said land the amount being $750. When  Mrs Ward  arrived back at the offices of Goodman &amp; Donaghue at 4.30 p.m. a 'Contract of Sale' was not available. A receipt was obtained for the balance of the deposit. Later I went with  Mrs Ward  and again visited Goodman &amp; Donaghue 's at 4.50 p.m. and requested of  Mr Perry  a 'Sale Note '. With reluctance this was given.  Mr Perry,  while obtaining information from the vendors solicitors, advised him that the land owners was the 3rd Tostaree Pty Ltd, yet previously, in the presence of  Mr Moss, Mrs Ward  and myself he stated that he always understood the owners to be  Mr Hall  and had no knowledge that  Mrs Hall  was the owner. 
On Sunday 24 September 1978,  Mr Perry  phoned to inform me that the vendors would not now sell the land in question unless the Co-Operative purchased the adjoining land-the price requested being $ 1 8,000. 
This piece of information was given to me by  Mr A.  K. McNeill. I want to know from the Government what will be done. That is blatant discrimination. There is no other word to describe it. This Senate some time ago brought down a report entitled: 'The Environmental Conditions of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders and the Preservation of their Sacred Sites'. In that report, we advised that we knew that one of the problems about Aboriginal people and white Australians was a problem of education, about where they stood and what they were all about. In that report, we said, for instance, that Aboriginal studies courses embracing contemporary and traditional culture and, if possible language, should be instituted in all Australian colleges of teacher education. We said that the Curriculum Development Centre should continue the work it had begun on investigating the best means of introducing Aboriginal studies into the schools. We said that the Federal and State authorities should immediately take steps to ensure the substitution of text books which present an erroneous and derogatory picture of the traditional Aboriginal society with accurate text books. We said that the Curriculum Development Centre should seriously investigate the feasibility of introducing the study of Aboriginal languages in secondary schools. We said all those things. We understood the problem and we faced up to it. We recommended that the participation of Australian people in the education curriculum be part of the Government's responsibility in this area. 
At the moment in Victoria, for instance, we have a situation where even the Greek people in the community cannot get to first base with this Government. We have the third largest Greek city in the world. Even in that area, the Victorian Government and the Federal Government will not face up to the problems which those people face. We have the Greek teachers in Victoria whose contracts have run out and whose contracts will not be renewed by the State Government or by this Federal Government. When we have such a large number of Greek people who need those sorts of teachers in this community, when we have that sort of problem which the 
Federal Government will not face up to, one cannot help thinking that if the Greeks in Victoria with all the clout they have cannot get any sort of answer from either the State Government or the Federal Government, then where will the Aboriginal people in this community find themselves? 
Previously in this House I have raised the problems facing the Aboriginal people in the Gippsland area of Victoria, for instance. I have raised in this House the fact that money has been spent in that area on carports for Aboriginal people. Aboriginal people in towns in Gippsland in Victoria have had their garages pulled down and have had carports built for them by the Department. This has been done even when there has not been one person in a household who has a licence to drive a car. Yet, money has been spent on carports for them when the houses in which they live have not been painted and have not been repaired. Despite the fact that the Aborigines have faulty fuel stoves in their houses that have caused great problems and have disfigured their houses considerably, none of these problems have been looked at by this Government. Carports have been built for the Aborigines even when no one in the houshold has a driving licence. They have had fences pulled down because, presumably, the Department says that if they are fences that can be burnt they should be pulled down. The fences have been pulled down and wire fences have been put up. None of these matters has been raised with the people who live in the houses. Nothing has been done despite the fact that we know that all over Australia there is a basic need for housing for Aboriginal people. In the report on Aboriginal people to which I have referred, which was brought down by this Senate, we said: 
The sub-standard housing which is available to the black urban community at greatly inflated cost is a constant source of medical problems. Little, and sometimes no plumbing, lack of hot water, in fact often only one cold tap to cover the needs of the entire household, poor ventilation, over-heated in summer, frozen in winter, conditions prevail and high incidence of respiratory ailments, chronic chest complaints, jaundice, gastro infections and general poor health are a result. Cross-infection and mass infection of the entire household because of crowded conditions are also common. 
That report was accepted by the Senate and presumably by this Government yet, since that time, we have had gross government inaction. We are brought to the point of doubting whether this Government cares two hoots about what the Aboriginal people of this country believe in. That is one report that I must repeat. I have stated it in this chamber before and will say it again until something is really done about the Aboriginal communities of Australia. 
We know that housing is the basis of their problems. At least, my Committee reported that way and this Senate accepted it: The basis of all of the problems that the Aboriginal communities of Australia is housing. The following quotation seems to me to sum up our attitude to the Aboriginal people of Australia. In our report, we said: 
The total cost, at constant value, of providing 4,055 additional houses per year until 1982 would be about S750m. One might compare this with the S324m that it is estimated will be spent on reconstructing Darwin over three years. 
In other words, we had one cyclone in Darwin that seemed to set the white Australian community on its ear. For some reason, we saw this as a tremendous problem and did everything that we could to make sure that that amount of money was spent, that those people were reestablished in the conditions that they enjoyed before that cyclone hit. Yet we know that every problem that the Aboriginal community of Australia has goes back to housing. Their health problems, their social problems- every problem may be traced to the fact that we do not house them decently, either in the way that we see decent housing or in the way that they see it. Yet, if we were to consider the amount that we spent on the community in Darwin after that cyclone hit we would see that we were talking here about a not very great amount of money to set right a very considerable portion of the population of Australia. I ask that the Government, in considering this matter, looks at this very real and human portion of the Australian population, and do something about it. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. I refer to the Press statement of the Minister for National Development announcing the formation of the Division of Environmental Science within the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. If the proposed work into the treatment and disposal of radioactive wastes only just begun, is original research being done or is the Division to develop further overseas practices? Is the Division to investigate specifically the treatment and disposal of waste in Australian territory? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. The Minister for National Development has advised that a group of consultants will be selected to undertake research and planning study for a national energy conservation publicity campaign. Can the Minister advise what goal the Government wishes to achieve in energy conservation and what machinery the Government has set up to monitor progress in that area? 
-On behalf of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works I present a report relating to the development of Army Site Stage 1, Bonegilla, Victoria. 
-by leave-I have pleasure in presenting the report of the Twenty-fourth Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference which was held in Jamaica in September and October of this year. As is stated in the body of the report, the participants were most grateful for the opportunity to represent this Parliament at that Conference. We were all most impressed with the beauty of the island of Jamaica and we were most warmed by the friendliness, generosity and hospitality of the people of Jamaica. May I say that, as usual, the Secretariat was most efficient and the Conference worked efficiently. The Australian delegates made many worthwhile contributions to discussions at the Conference and were all grateful for the opportunity to listen to the views of people from many environments different from our own. We found their arguments and the discussions interesting and challenging. 
There are opportunities for free discussion at these conferences but I feel that steps should be taken to have wider and more meaningful discussion rather than just speechifying from delegates. For instance, one matter which a discussion panel dealt with was the fight against international terrorism. That is a large and complex subject. To give some 100 delegates only two hours to discuss it means that in many instances a lot of speechifying goes on rather than information being given. Some delegations want to grandstand and take up large slabs of time in making speeches. They seem to depend more on the length of a speech rather than the quality of the information given. Another interesting topic that was discussed was the need to update medical legislation in the Commonwealth on abortion. Delegates from many different countries asked, for instance, for recognition of the United Nations Declaration of Rights to SelfDetermination, larger and more comprehensive programs of education on contraception and more committal to the allocation of resources to overcome the overwhelming social and economic problems that lead to abortion. Of all the delegates who were present and who spoke, only one spoke out in favour of legislation declaring abortion illegal. 
As has happened before at other conferences, the Australian delegation was not of one mind in regard to every matter. The Senate is aware of the matters on which we were most divided. It has happened at other conferences and is a matter of some amazement to delegations from other Commonwealth countries. There are still many Commonwealth countries who do not send mixed delegations; they send delegations made up of members of the parties who are in power at the time. But even among mixed delegations there was a feeling that we should settle our differences at home and speak with one voice. I hope that we never do. I hope also that we never fall into the trap of sending only a delegation of members from the party that forms the government of the day or insist that the delegation speaks with one voice. I maintain the right of members of delegation to express their own views and, of course, the right of other delegates to put forward views which may be the views of a majority of the people of Australia. Of course, the delegates who put forward ideas that are not of this country or not favoured by the majority of delegates at the conference have to run the gauntlet of those other delegations. 
Opportunity was given during the time we were there for us to have discussions with the Jamaican people and the Jamaican Government on some of their problems. I for one was most impressed with the program for adult education that the Jamaican Government is carrying on and I was pleased to learn that the Australian Government contributed to it. It is true that it was only a matter of some $2,000- a small amount of money- but we found that it was exceedingly well used. The people running the program were imaginative and inspired in the way they used the facilities available to them and in the way they made that small amount of money stretch. From my observation, the people and the Government of Jamaica are firmly committed to raising the level of education in that country and to giving the entire population basic skills. In fact, I felt that our country, which is much wealthier and much more fortunate, could follow their lead. But it was pleasing to know that the Australian people had contributed in this small way to this program. 
In conclusion, I feel that the Australian Government could take advantage of conferences such as this. As I have said before in this House, it could use them as a means of acquainting other countries with our produce- our fine wines, our fine cheeses and our fine fruits. I do not feel that this would be very expensive or hard to organise. At these conferences we could have one function with splendid Australian food and wine and splendid Australian hospitality so that delegates from other countries could go home wishing that such delights could be available in their own countries. In that way we could build our reputation. I would like to see Australian governments take such initiatives. 
-In passing I cannot help but wonder whether  Senator Kilgariff  would have felt quite the same about Galarrwuy Yunupingu, about whom he spoke so feelingly, if the small group of members of the Northern Land Council who signed the Ranger agreement had not signed it. I wonder whether then he would have felt that Galarrwuy Yunupingu was a fine upstanding young man who should be left in peace. I am sorry that all Government supporters are not here to participate in this debate which means so much to so many people in Australia. Honourable senators opposite, such as  Senator Young,  should participate in this debate instead of making accusations that some members of the Australian Labor Party want to support the rnining of uranium.  Senator Young  should come into the chamber and tell us who those members are. If he had such an intimate knowledge of their real feelings he would tell us. The fact that he does not puts the lie once and for all to the story that more than half of the Australian Labor Party members in reality wants to mine and export uranium. That just is not so, and it is not so because we in the Australian Labor Party know of the difficulties that this would involve. Members of the Labor Party outside this chamber do not want uranium mined and used any more than do 50 per cent of the Australian population. I invite  Senator Young  to give honourable senators the names of those members of the Australian Labor Party who, he says, support uranium mining. 
At one stage the Australian Labor Party did support the mining of uranium but it was not then aware of the dangers and the difficulties attached to the use of uranium and nuclear power. The Opposition is concerned enough and big enough when it sees the difficulties and understands the problems to change its policy. That is more than I can say for members of this Government. They know in their hearts what the problems and difficulties are. They are spelt out chapter and verse. There is not one scientist in the world who, with the support of his colleagues, would tell us that there is a safe way to handle the waste from the use of uranium. 
Yes, except  Sir Philip  Baxter who says: 'Madam, you should have faith'. There is not one scientist who could tell us of a safe method. If there was a scientist who had a foolproof method, he and the uranium miners would have told the world about it because they would have by-passed all the difficulties and problems. However, they have not because they cannot. We are told that perhaps something will work; we are told that scientists are looking for something that will work; and we are told that this work will be done in the future. But the work has not been done yet, and not one person can stand up and say that it has been. I am pleased to say that even the vitrification story seems to have died away. 
The Opposition is told that all it is really doing is pressuring the Aborigines. The difference between the Government and the Labor Party is that the Opposition is not run by the uranium miners, most of whom have overseas allegiances, whereas it appears that the Government is. Commissioner Fox said in his report that uranium is a very special metal. I can say only that uranium miners must be very special miners because they get very special treatment from this Government. The Fox report also said that the Act that the Government is now amending was inappropriate. Government supporters, every time they stand up to speak on this Bill, quote the Fox report and say, not only in this chamber but also outside, how much they support it and what a fine report it is; and the Government admits, by putting through the second amendment to the Act in eight months, that the Act is inappropriate.. Yet the Government refuses to abide by Commissioner Fox's recommendation that it should not use this Act if it intends going ahead with the mining of uranium. 
This amendment is further proof of the inappropriateness of the Act and will mean that no stricter safety measures and no new environmental safeguards will be able to be brought in once the Bill is passed into law, despite the fact that everybody, including this Government, admits and accepts that there is no threshold information available at this point on which changes to the environment can be judged. The Government is just setting up machinery to cover the environment as it now is; but when mining gets under way, if it does, and the information starts to flow in, if it starts to flow in, the Government will not be able to alter the circumstances under which uranium can be mined because the Government will be tied by the provisions of this Bill. This will be so despite the fact that no project sites have yet been proclaimed for Jabiluka and Nabarlek, the two areas that  Mr Anthony  is hell bent on getting into production. No provisions exist to protect those sites. We know that Commissioner Fox said specifically that there should be no irrevocable undertaking to mine uranium because we know too Utile about the problems and difficulties that would be encountered. Yet the Government is tying the people of this country to an agreement that cannot be broken- an agreement relating to the mining of uranium for a falling market. No extraordinary developments will take place in the Northern Territory because of uranium mining; no massive number of jobs will come out of uranium mining, because the market is falling, and the uranium miners know that. That is why they are so desperate to get something out of the country and to get some money while there is a little prospect of a market left. 
Overseas the production of nuclear power stations has been drastically cut; the use of electricity from nuclear power has been drastically cut. In America, the General Electric company said that halfway through this century it was faced with the greatest disaster, so far as the production of nuclear power plants was concerned, that it had ever been faced with. 'There will be no nuclear future', it said. The Energy Commission in America said that nuclear power was finished; it was gone; it was over. Orders are down to an extraordinarily small number in the United States- something like four- and those four are doubtful. The German producers of nuclear power stations say gloomily that there is no future in the industry. Japan- the customer most lauded by this Government and the country that in the 1970s, at the height of the furore about the use of nuclear energy, proposed the installation of 60,000 megawatts of generating capacity by 1985- now says that it will have no more than 26,000 megawatts by 1985, and it may not even reach that because of the sharp contraction in the growth rate, the drop in demand for electricity and public opposition to nuclear power. Similarly, Germany has reduced its program. America has reduced its program. 
One of the overriding reasons all over the world is the cost of the building and disposal of those nuclear power stations. 
Yes, and Austria voted against it. I quote from the International Atomic Energy Agency: 
Soaring costs of nuclear power projects far beyond the originally estimated limit have led to great difficulties, disappointments, controversies and even to the cancellation of projects. This has happened also amongst countries with some experience in nuclear technology. It appears to be even more difficult for inexperienced countries and companies to control the costs of a nuclear project unless they buy a standard nuclear unit from an experienced supplier, which means little participation of their local manufacturing and engineering capacity. 
Later it says that the Environment Energy and Natural Resources Sub-Committee of the United States Congress published its findings on the cost of nuclear power. It said: 
Neither the Federal Government nor the Nuclear Industry has prepared reliable cost estimates for the ultimate disposal and perpetual care of radioactive wastes and spent nuclear fuel. 
It said further- 
After 30 years of nuclear power development, technology to dismantle a large commercial reactor has not yet been demonstrated and the costs of dismantling such a reactor are still unknown. 
It finally stated: 
Capital construction costs of nuclear plants as well as fuel costs have risen dramatically. Construction costs have risen 10 times faster than the Consumer Price Index and more than twice that of coal fired plants. 
So, this is the market for which this Government is taking extraordinary action. Is it any wonder that we wonder what sort of hold the uranium miners have over this Government? Above all, in this argument we must remember that we have not the only source of uranium in this world. More and more reports are coming in of more and more findings of deposits of uranium. As has been said before in this debate and earlier, the fuel can even be distilled from sea water. The Japanese are working on that particular program at the moment. It is a falling market. If the market is falling it is conceivable that governments could offer customers other facilities. What people in Australia are afraid of is that this Government will do just that and offer customers other facilities to get their custom. We might find this Act being amended further to allow for the disposal of waste on this continent. Already the Atomic Energy Commission has a new Environmental Division. It seems highly likely that its inquiries will be into the disposal of waste in Australia. 
All this is happening despite the Aboriginal people. It is extraordinary how, before the agreement with the Aboriginal people was signed, we heard comments about Aborigines having too many rights, about apartheid in reversal and about the interests of the white people of Australia being sacrificed in the interests of the Aborigines. Now that in rather dubious circumstances this agreement has been signed, we find people like  Senator Kilgariff  castigating people and talking about every method under the sun being used to have the Aborigines not sign the agreement. We believe that this Government used every method under the sun to pressure the Aborigines into signing the agreement. There seems to be ample evidence for that. If  Senator Kilgariff  is assured of it being the other way, if he has the evidence which he says he has, perhaps the Government would like to hold a full and open inquiry into just how that agreement with the Northern Land Council was signed, under what circumstances it was signed, who signed it, and why the meeting had to be held in secret. 
Fox said in his report that it had to be acknowledged that the mining of uranium could lead to nuclear war. This country has initialled an agreement to sell uranium to South Korea. I remember that, when the American Government said that it was going to take its troops home from South Korea, the South Korean Government said: 'Now we are very interested in the uranium in Australia because we will need it to protect ourselves'. Just lately, at the same time as this Government was announcing that it had initialled an agreement to sell uranium to South Korea, the South Korean Press came out and pointed out that South Korea had the equipment, it had the warheads and it had the equipment to transport the warheads; and that all it needed was the nuclear warheads and it was then in the race with other larger and stronger powers in the world. This is from a country that has signed the non-proliferation treaty- the treaty that is supposed to protect us. 
If a country like South Korea is now talking about adding nuclear warheads to the equipment it already has- and it signed the nonproliferation treaty- what are we going to do about a country like India that has not signed the non-proliferation treaty? We all know that India was given a reactor and fuel by Canada to experiment for peaceful purposes. India cheated and it made a bomb. The world tut-tutted and said that that was a very bad thing to do. So, for a little time India did not have any fuel with which to use its reactor; but then America said to India: 'I am sure that you have learned your lesson. If you will promise not to do it again, we will give you supplies of fuel'. America has given it supplies of fuel. Now, just in the last few weeks, India has announced that the reactor it has near Bombay is producing weapons-grade plutonium. Why would a country want to produce weapons-grade plutonium, but to put it into weapons? What are we going to do about something like that? What can America do about something like that? America says that it has safeguards too, but how did it safeguard the world from that sort of action? 
No piece of paper safeguards the world. No treaty, no agreement safeguards the world in those circumstances. We have to take the responsibility. If we dig uranium out of the ground, if we sell it to people and if we make any sort of profit out of a material that can affect lives for generations to come, then we have to take some responsibility. We say that the responsibility we should take is to leave uranium in the ground until such time as the world is assured that the material can be handled safely. Much effort is being put into feather bedding the uranium miners, while the majority of the Australian people who cannot be called, in  Senator Kilgariff  's words, 'left wing activists or extremists' do not want uranium mined. Of course, this will be acknowledged by a Labor Party government. The uranium miners must remember that, when we become the Government shortly, we will prevent the export of uranium. One must acknowledge the integrity of the Australian people. 
At the recent Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference the question of international terrorism came up. The use of nuclear weapons and plutonium by terrorists was raised. Australians made the point that one way to prevent that use was to leave uranium in the ground so that the weapons and the plutonium would not be available. The Canadian delegation said: One must acknowledge the integrity of the Australian people, who up to this point have not exported their uranium because they are concerned about the result of that export'. I just wish that this Government would show its integrity in the matter. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Serious allegations have been made by  Senator Townley  concerning the integrity of telephone technicians in Australia. Will the Minister ask the senator to produce the evidence that he has for his claim that these people have been conspiring to defraud the public, and to lay it on the table of the Senate? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, follows questions answered by  Senator Guilfoyle  yesterday and a question asked by  Senator Douglas  McClelland this afternoon regarding the investigation of misleading information which had been given. Will the Minister also inquire as to whether it is true that the Commonwealth Police Force officer who led the raids was formerly a member of the New South Wales Police Force who left that force because of a scandal involving pay-offs in relation to migrants and pensions and whether it is true that these raids were carried out under directives not from 
Commonwealth Police headquarters but from the Department of Social Security? 
-I rise in this debate concerned that a government whose mismanagement has allowed the deficit to blow out by around $ 1,000m should be trying to retrieve the position by squeezing the people in need of government care and protection. In those areas where government should be using its powers to protect and to sustain those whose circumstances have placed them in a vulnerable position, this Government is pushing people further and further into the quagmire of extreme poverty. Merely paying lip service to the idea of pensions is not enough. One has to look at the real needs, the real justice, behind the whole idea of paying pensions to certain sections of the community. Although in many ways when one talks about pensions one thinks of elderly people, pensioners in our community today are of all ages. They all have human needs. They all need food, for instance. The elderly need good food to prevent illness, to prevent degeneration. Women who are chronically anaemic need good food and proper nutrition. Children need nourishing fresh food for their mental and physical development. 
Yet at a time when pensions have effectively had a stopper put on them, we notice that the consumer price index shows that in the December quarter there was a 10 per cent increase in food prices. The pensioners who will have to buy food at that increased price will not receive an increase in their pensions until November 1979. One cannot help wondering how people will manage in these sorts of circumstances. For the elderly, in some areas, there are such organisations as Meals on Wheels to provide assistance. But when one remembers that the Government has cut the subsidy to Meals on Wheels and prevented its expansion in many areas, one has no alternative but to imagine that large numbers of our pensioner population will start to degenerate because they will be unable to eat properly. They will not be able to buy nourishing food to sustain themselves. 
Right across the community, insufficient money to buy proper food means an increase in ill health, which means additional cost. We used to have Medibank to assist people in ill health, but this Government has destroyed Medibank. Now pensioners have to take out private health insurance, and that means more expense. Elderly pensioners in some areas will be lucky to be able to take out private health insurance because many of the health insurance funds have stopped offering health insurance to elderly people. They have said that the risk is too great; that they cannot afford it. So the pensioners are left with only their pensions, without the prospect of their being increased and with mounting expenses. 
Families with young children make up a great part of our pensioner population today. Anybody who has had children, anybody who has any imagination, realises that when there are young children in a family the need for health care rises dramatically. Everybody knows that families have high expenses in this area and everybody knows that many pensioners are now left with the burden of covering the gap between the standard health benefit that they can claim and the actual fees that doctors charge. They cannot afford to pay high insurance premiums on a fixed income because the money runs out. So the health of these people deteriorates even more. There are, as I think all members of parliament will have realised by now, increasing numbers of people in our offices complaining bitterly about the fact that their pensions are being reduced; they are being reviewed and reduced. They are complaining more because it is becoming much more difficult for them to manage on what is left. It becomes more obvious to them that what they see as a reduction in their incomes has taken place, and they literally cannot manage. 
All sorts of people need shelter, as has been said in this debate. People and families have to have a roof over their heads, and whilst every little ratty room in Australia has its rent increased every time there is a pension rise, there is no increase in the amount of decent and cheap accommodation into which pensioners can go. In Victoria the Housing Commission has been the body that has assisted pensioners with housing. It now has the policy of having its rents meet market-related rentals, which means, of course, that they will all be lifted substantially. The Commission has already started to lift its rents substantially and while its rents go up to the market value people stay on fixed levels of pensions. Somebody is going to have to suffer to cover that gap. How will a government which insists that pensions need only one cost of living rise a year 12 months after the costs have risen guarantee that people will have shelter? Yet at the end of last year in the debate on the Housing Assistance Bill  Senator Carrick  said: 
This Bill reflects the Government's firm view that the housing of Australians is an issue of national concern. It conforms with our basic policy objectives ... to ensure that every household in Australia is able to obtain adequate housing within its capacity to pay; 
How pensioners are going to find adequate housing within their capacity to pay is beyond one's imagination at the moment. Already people's standard of living has been drastically reduced. The Victorian Housing Commission, I repeat, has already started on its policy of raising the rents of people who have very little with which to pay them. Only today I had put to me a case of a widow with four children. The Victorian Housing Commission now offers no rent rebates for pensioners. They pay the rent and then apply for a rebate and the Commission decides whether they are worthy of it. This widow on a pension with four children was denied any rebate because one of her boys had just turned 16, could not get a job and was on unemployment benefit. So the amount of money which that woman has to stretch to feed her family has been, of course, reduced. 
There is no more funding from this Government for hostel-type accommodation. All" over the country one finds areas where there are a large number of aged people in the population, -a large number of people on the waiting lists and no money to provide a hostel. There has been a cut-back in the amount of money made available for the sort of care which would keep aged people in their homes and the sorts of care which enables them to look after household repairs and maintenance. There is no more money for that type of assistance and there is no more money for the sort of accommodation to which aged people can go when they can no longer look after themselves or cope with those sorts of difficulties. 
There is no good, cheap accommodation available in Australia for people living on their own or for families living in difficult circumstances. 
There is also no logic in the Government's persistence that unequal pension benefits should be given. We have families on different types of pensions. Some women bringing up families on their own have health care available to them and some of them have no health care; some of them are helped with prescriptions at the chemist and some of them are not; some are assisted with fares and some get no assistance whatsoever; some have assistance with rates or telephones and some have none at all. Yet they all have children to raise in this community. In January 1979 on the occasion of opening the International Year of the Child  Senator Guilfoyle  said: 
This is a rare opportunity to demonstrate that intensified public and governmental awareness of children's needs can lead to concrete action of immense and, above all, lasting benefit to mankind's future- its children. There is no sounder investment than the future of the child and no greater responsibility for the adults of today . . . The great and promising potentials of the International Year of the Child require, deserve and depend upon the unreserved support of governments, organisations and individuals. 
Those are fine words and yet some children on pensions are paid a larger children's allowance than others, some children on pensions receive an education allowance and some do not, and some children on pensions receive the cost of school requisites, fares and other educational expenses. Very many receive none at all. Yet, as  Senator Guilfoyle  said, the ball is now in the Government's court. It can now take on the greater responsibility of this investment in our future- our children. How can we differentiate between children? As the value of the pension goes down there is less money in these homes for education and so the children get worse and worse educations and a harder and harder start in life. Honourable senators should imagine these people trying to find money for a private education. Yet this Government has said so much about the freedom of choice in education. It is hard enough for these people to pay when they go into our so-called free school system. In the private education area the situation would be absolutely appalling. There has been no rise in the mother's allowance in any of our pension schemes. There has been no rise in the children's allowance in any of our pension schemes. Now we have an increase once a year while the cost of living rises week by week. 
There is one other area that bears commenting upon, an area that I think is absolutely disgraceful. It is those people under 18 years who find themselves unfortunately on the unemployment benefit. They have had no rise at all since 1975. They have existed on $36 a week since 1975. Their parents, we are told, are expected to take the responsibility for them and to keep them. Yet so many of their parents now are on unemployment benefit. So many of their parents are fast approaching or are in fact below the poverty level. Fares have risen, the cost of food has risen and the cost of clothes and rent has risen. Yet all their needs are supposed to be met at the 1975 level of pension with 1979 prices. They bleed too. They need food, they need shelter and they need sustenance. They are a part of the community. They are a part of the unemployed. They are supposed to get up and show that they have some go in them and can find jobs. They are supposed to be dressed decently. They are supposed to ring up employers and to buy newspapers. Yet we expect them to exist on a pension that was set in 1975. Once again all those youngsters who were so good, worked so hard and had such expectations from us are being made the scapegoats by an older society that cannot cope with the problems it faces. 
The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  made much of the numbers of pensioners and the increase in welfare payments. She said, 'It does not matter what the increase in numbers is going to be, we will not increase the size of the cake'. But these people will not go away. The number of people seeking benefit will increase. Does that mean that we are going to have even lower pension payments in the future? It seems to me it is time that this Government set its priorities and put people first. People have always understood that a percentage of their taxes will go to social security and in their turn they will claim for social security. I feel that we want less emphasis on welfare in this area and more emphasis on people's rights. 
The cost of providing this twice-yearly increase would be $2 7m this year. One is reminded of how much the Utah company, for instance, has made out of coal in Queensland this year. Yet the Government refused to put a resource tax on the Utah company. If more of the wealth of this country flowed back to the people of this country, perhaps we would have less talk about welfare and more people would live with some decency. As  Senator Chipp  has said, we have an arrogant Government with an arrogant Prime Minister. Today we heard from a Minister whom I have not found arrogant before but who followed her Prime Minister when she said: 'It does not really matter what private member's Bill is introduced- the Government will not fund it'. I think it is time that the Government took note of the fact that it governs at the behest of the people of Australia. It should listen to them. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. As we are all aware of the interest of the Government and especially of the Prime Minister in computer firms, I would like to ask a question on the following facts: IBM 
Australia Ltd, Melbourne, and Honeywell Pty Ltd, Melbourne, are both firms dealing in computer systems. It is now a fact that IBM has an unlisted telephone number on each side of Honeywell. The telephone numbers in use are IBM 6993287; Honeywell 6993288; and IBM 6993289. Will the Minister agree that it would be wrong for an outside influence to be used to obtain such a listing which many other firms have sought but have been denied because it constituted unfair competition? Will the Minister investigate the matter? 
-In the spirit of camaraderie that prevails in the Senate tonight I ask: Whatever happened to the senator from Warrnambool? I rise to speak on the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare on ethics in wine promotion. Honourable senators may have forgotten that this matter came to light late last year when the attention of the Committee- which has a continuing role in the area of the use of drugs and which has said that alcohol is the drug that is most used in Australia and deserves much more attention than is given to it by the community, the government and the Parliament at times- was drawn to a film that the Australian Wine Board made to promote the consumption of wine in Australia. We were asked to look at it because, we were told, it contained specific inferences that people should drink wine whereas, our original report, entitled 'Drug problems in Australia- an intoxicated society?', had stated that people should not be put in the position of feeling that they had to drink wine. I remind the Senate that that report, which we brought down in 1977, in part recommended: 
That the Commonwealth Government ban the advertising of alcoholic beverages, whether by way of corporate advertising or by exhibiting of the brand name of such beverages in a planned fashion, on radio and television and in areas under direct Commonwealth control, such as in the Territories and at airports. 
It also recommended: 
Thai, until a total ban has been implemented, the question of substantial compliance with the voluntary code for the advertising of alcoholic beverages by brewers, distillers, wine makers and all retailers of alcoholic beverages be reviewed annually. 
That State Governments and local government authorities be encouraged to ban the advertising of alcoholic beverages. 
Our whole feeling when we brought down that report was that, because of the danger to the community as a result of the increasing use of alcohol, the advertising of alcohol should stop. We were persuaded to the view that rather than immediately ban the advertising of alcohol we should implement such a ban slowly, if only because of the voluntary code that the entire industry was bringing into being. We were told by the industry that it could regulate itself through the voluntary codes that it was bringing down. We were persuaded to that point of view. We were told that the voluntary code that we were given was adhered to by the Media Council of Australia. I refer to the Voluntary Codes of Advertising Practice. That code did seem to us in many ways to cover the points we would like to have covered. It might not have gone as far as we might have liked but at least it did seem to take account of the fact that children, young people and the community in general should not be pressured into the use of alcohol. 
We were told that the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations believed in self-regulation and had voluntarily agreed to self-regulation. We were advised that a code of alcohol advertising had been registered, or was about to be registered, with the Trade Practices Commission and that the industry saw the point that we had been trying to make and agreed to this self-regulation code. I repeat that from what we had been able to ascertain and had reported to the Senate, we felt that advertising should cease. However, we had been told by the industry generally that it understood the problems and that it would adhere voluntarily to a code. 
In the light of all that, we saw this film which the Wine Board had produced. The Wine Board told us that as it was not an advertisement for wine it was not covered by any voluntary advertising code. We were told that it was not a feature film but that it was a documentary film. That was the spirit in which we saw the film. It is one of the worst films that I have ever seen. Apart from any standards as far as the advertising of alcohol is concerned, it is an appalling film. It is badly made. Its story line, if one could put it as high as calling it a story line, is very poor. It is a childish and rather stupid film. The Wine Board released it. 
We were told that it was a documentary film about the wine industry. We saw it, and we were appalled by the standard of the film and appalled that the Wine Board should see this film as being anything other than a film designed to promote wine in the cheapest possible way. We were appalled that the Wine Board, which takes money from this Government, should see its role as being one of using government money to promote alcoholic beverages in that light. We reported to that effect. We tried to find out from the Censor the light in which he had seen the film. We got certain information from him. We reported to the Senate in all good faith that we felt that the film did not do anybody justiceneither the film industry nor the wine industry. 
Then we found that we were the subject of rather crude comment by the newspapers and by the Wine Board itself. The Wine Board, in a publication called  Wine Brief,  insinuated that, in a rather heavy-handed way, in the role of people who promoted temperance and abstinence and the wowser influence in the community, we had gone out of our way to rubbish the film. Newspapers reported this as being evidence of our political interference in this field. I think it is time the record was set straight. It was not a matter of political interference at all. We saw the film. We thought it was bad. As far as we were able to ascertain it had no censorship rating. We rang the Film Censorship Board to inquire why it had not been given a rating. When we first inquired we were told that the film had never been submitted to the Board. That worried us a great deal. We were told that the Board would look at it then and there and give us a report. 
The Board looked at the film and rated it NRC- not recommended for children. Frankly, I do not think it would do children any harm. It is so bad that the only harm it would do adults would be that they would be appalled by the fact that anybody could make such a bad film. We reported to the Senate to the effect that the Censor had rated the film NRC and that we thought this was not in the spirit of the report we had made to the Senate. We were then rubbished in every newspaper in Australia, because it turned out that the film had been rated by the Censor, under another title or a different number. When he first saw the film he had rated it G- suitable for general exhibition. 
The Censorship Board gave us the misinformation. 
When we asked  Mr Robert  Mayne of the Wine Board about it, he said that the film did not need to go before the Censorship Board because it was not a feature film and it was not a trade film. He said that it was in some sort of category of films which did not need to go before the Censorship Board at all. That appalled us because that meant that a lot of films would not go before the Censorship 
Board, just because the makers of the films said that they were not advertising films or that they were not feature films. Evidently the Censor would accept that sort of word and would then say to the makers: 'Well, you do not have to go before the Censor at all'. This leaves a great opening for people to put out appalling films, putting up appalling points of view, without them ever having to go before the Censor. 
We finished up in a situation where we had to raise with the Censor the fact that this was a film which said to the community: 'Unless you drink wine you are not a really swinging, up-with-it member of the community'. That was the very point by which we said we were appalled in relation to the advertising of alcohol. If people drink alcohol, that is one thing; but for people to be told that they are not really modern, intelligent, proper members of society if they do not drink alcohol, we think, is appalling in a society whose members really drink far too much alcohol too often. 
Some of us drink far too much alcohol far too often. I will not speak for the other senators in this place. That was the situation in which we found ourselves. We were the bad boys because we had raised the matter and because nobody else had bothered to find out the facts. The Wine Board, through its national promotions manager, did not bother to find out the facts. It rubbished us as having engaged in some sort of heavy political interference to have the Censorship Board's classification of the film changed. This was not so. We had asked for the facts. The Censorship Board had given us the wrong facts. 
We were then left with the situation of having seen a film which had had its rating changed, only because we had brought the matter to the attention of the people concerned. One wonders about the Censorship Board when on the one hand it can rate a film G- suitable for general exhibition- and then, after it has had another look at the film, can rate it NRC- not recommended for children. It does not say much for the Board. Above all, in my opinion, it does not say much for the Wine Board either. We know that the growing of grapes is very much a part of Australian primary industry. That does not mean that the industry can, on the grounds that it has a great crop, push alcohol down everybody's throat. 
What worried us greatly in the report entitled Drug problems in Australia- an intoxicated Society?' was the fact that in every area of Australia now it is accepted that the consumption of wine and alcohol is a must. Honourable senators will know that once when they went to a function they were not offered wine, or alcohol in any form, until after 5 o'clock in the evening. Now more and more of us find that we go to functions at 10 o'clock in the morning and along with the tea and coffee and chicken sandwiches we are offered a glass of wine, a glass of sherry or a beer. That does not happen only at functions we attend. It happens at all sorts of functions which all sorts of people attend. 
While the Wine Board is allowed to use the money that it is given to promote wine in producing these tawdry films that appeal to the lowest possible denominator in the community and in all of us, I do not think we are doing ourselves any sort of service at all. We feel that the newspapers in this instance were irresponsible. They could have looked at the facts and not reported us as being wowsers who were trying to get on the bandwagon and to use whatever means we could to denigrate films- they said good films- which had been made about wine. They did not bother to look at the film or to make a judgment themselves. We think the industry is irresponsible because, although it told us that it was prepared to use self-regulation, as far as we can see it really has not done anything other than go all out and try to sell in any possible way that it can every bit of alcohol that it possibly can sell to the community. We do not think that the community is responsible because, when it gets down to it, if the community really saw alcohol as a problem and really wanted to solve the problem, it could do so. 
There is a lot of talk about educating people in how to use alcohol and about the difficulties and the problems associated with alcohol. There is no point whatsoever in setting up educational programs in high schools, in primary schools or, as we are now told should happen, in kindergartens, if at the same time those children see their parents using on every possible occasion amounts of alcohol that can only be detrimental to their health and to their conduct and using alcohol as though they intend to go on drinking it forever. If the community is responsible it can identify the problem and deal with ii, but there is no point in talking about the problem until people take a responsible attitude towards it. 
I present the following petition from 38 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the credibility of the Westminster Parliamentary system is weakened by the resignation in protest of Ministers of the Crown without adequate explanation of the reason or reasons for the resignation being given to the electorate and that the situation is further exacerbated by the reappointment of the recently resigned Minister within a very brief period, again without any meaningful explanation to the people of Australia. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, take note of the need for the electorate at large to be fully informed so that the confidence of the people is not diminished in the democratic process in general and the Parliamentary process in particular. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following  petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. Petition received and read. 
I  present the following petition from 22 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the credibility of the Westminster Parliamentary system is weakened by the resignation in protest of Ministers of the Crown without adequate explanation of the reason or reasons for the resignations being given to the electorate and that the situation is further exacerbated by the reappointment of the recently resigned Minister within a very brief period, again without any meaningful explanation to the people of Australia. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, take note of the need for the electorate at large to be fully informed so that the confidence of the people is not diminished in the democratic process in general and the Parliamentary process in particular. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 33 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the credibility of the Westminster parliamentary system is weakened by the resignation in protest of Ministers of the Crown without adequate explanation of the reason or reasons for the resignations being given to the electorate and that the situation is further exacerbated by the reappointment of the recently resigned Minister within a very brief period, again without any meaningful explanation to the people of Australia. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, take note of the need for the electorate at large to be fully informed so that the confidence of the people is not diminished in the democratic process in general and the parliamentary process in particular. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. The Minister would be aware that cars used by the Prime Minister and Ministers are all equipped with radios, sun visors, weathershields, mudflaps and air-conditioning. Has the Minister any reasonable explanation as to why 10 new cars in the depot at Canberra have none of these accessories? Are the back benchers supposed to be second class members of Parliament in that, for instance, Ministers will be able to listen to the news service in their cars but we will not and, as our cars do not have the accessories that make for safe driving, are our lives regarded as being of little consequence? 
I present the following petition from 9 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the credibility of the Westminster Parliamentary system is weakened by the resignation in protest of Ministers of the Crown without adequate explanation of the reason or reasons for the resignations being given to the electorate and that the situation is further exacerbated by the reappointment of the recently resigned Minister within a very brief period, again without any meaningful explanation to the people of Australia. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, take note of the need for the electorate at large to be fully informed so that the confidence of the people is not diminished in the democratic process in general and the Parliamentary process inparticular. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 22 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a  mockery of  a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the pov erty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I am not sure whether my question should be addressed to the Minister for Social Security or the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. Was it the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs or the Department of Social Security that issued a memorandum to officers stating that people moving to areas where there is little chance of work will have their unemployment benefit cut off, and will remain deprived of unemployment benefit while in the area? How will the Department of Social Security deal with people who, on the basis of recent propaganda, moved to fruit picking areas looking for work and are unable to find jobs there? Does the Commonwealth accept any responsibility for people who, on advice from the Commonwealth Employment Service, took themselves into fruit picking areas and found that it was impossible to earn even as much as the unemployment benefit while living in very primitive conditions? Will these people be immediately eligible to receive the unemployment benefit? Is it true that the Commonwealth Employment Service knew that it was impossible to earn a living fruit picking in those areas before it sent unemployed people there? 
-I rise in this debate astonished at the rhetoric that has taken the place of reason with some honourable senators on the opposite side of the chamber. Often I have listened to  Senator Missen  in this chamber and generally I agree with a great deal of what he has to say. I have a great deal of regard for him. But for the last 10 minutes we have listened to an apologia of irrelevant nonsense. As one honourable senator said, while we were talking about land scandals and about wasting the hard-earned money of the ordinary people of this nation,  Senator Missen  talked about the road toll. From him we heard purple prose about the Victorian Government, but he did not provide any example of the sound management of the Victorian Government which he claims we should support. Speaking of apologias, when talking about the Land Sales Development Commission which the Victorian Government brought into being to oversee government purchases of land, one cannot help but remember that that Commission came into effect only after the Ballarat by-election was held and the State Premier said that it appeared that they would have to look as though they were doing more about the land scandals and as though they cared more about the people of Victoria. 
We have listened to allegations that we are just electioneering. It has been said that we would not say some of the things we say here if we were outside the House; that we would not say them in Victoria. I say here and now that whatever allegations I make I will make here, I will make outside in King's Hall, I will make outside on the front steps and I will make all over Victoria. I would like to see members of the Liberal Party of Australia in Victoria agreeing with me or debating with me all over Victoria the points I raise. Today we have heard from two Opposition speakers appalling details of the misuse of Commonwealth money in Victoriamoney which is supposed to provide land for the housing of people in Victoria but which instead has been cynically directed into the pockets of profiteering land developers. This was condemned even by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony).  Even he was appalled. He was reported as follows: 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  said yesterday the Hamer Government's $10.Sm Housing Commission land deals had been highly questionable. 
The Victorian Government is running out of steam and when a Government runs out of steam, it gets into trouble', he said. 
It has now reached the stage where the Government is bogged down in some highly questionable land transactions. ' 

 -The Deputy Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  said that and who am I to disagree with the  Deputy  Prime Minister? I hope that the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  is as appalled by that statement as he was by the statements, the truth of which he questioned, made by  Senator Wriedt.  But the cynicism, the lack of caring and the irresponsibility do not stop there. As  Senator Missen  said, it is the Victorian Government's proud boast that it has the highest rate of home ownership in Victoria. Commonwealth moneys are made available to the States for building nouses for rent for people who cannot afford to buy their own homes. For years the Victorian Government has been taking that money but it is not building houses to rent with the money; it is building houses to sell. The Victorian Housing Commission's report of last June showed that 12,963 people were waiting to rent homes. Six weeks ago the Victorian Minister for Housing said that 16,000 people were on the list waiting to rent homes. Yet the Housing Commission's report states that in 1978 it sold 7,000 more homes than it rented to people. Obviously the Victorian Government does not have any care for people who cannot afford to buy homes. In doing that, is the Victorian Government acting in the responsible way in which  Senator Missen  said that it was acting? 
It is interesting that only last week, in the election build-up, the Victorian Minister for Housing said that he had directed the Housing Commission to buy back properties from people who wanted to sell them. In the heat and the exposure of an election campaign, even he is starting to feel doubtful about the role of the Housing Commission and whether it should be selling houses or building houses for people to rent. Private rental companies have been buying Housing Commission houses from families who bought them from the Commission. Those private rental companies are letting those houses at an average rate of $65 a week. When we remember that 16,000 people are on the Housing Commission waiting list for rented housing alone, apart from all the other people in the community who need to rent houses, it is obvious that those private rental companies have a very good market for renting houses. Home buyers who are buying houses from the Housing Commission at a rate of payment of $11.50 a week have tenants alongside who are paying $65 a week to private companies for the same sorts of houses. 
In the eastern suburbs of Melbourne there is a Housing Commission estate called the Frankston Pines Estate which has 150 houses which are owned by absentee landlords and investment companies. I presume that that is one of the outstanding achievements of the Victorian Government! Not only is the Housing Commission making money out of land; it is also making money out of houses which were built by the State with Commonwealth money for the benefit of people who could not afford to buy houses. In this outer eastern suburb of Frankston Pines Estate, an accommodation vacancy which is filled from the Housing Commission lists occurs only once a year. In that area there are only 267 rental houses and about 200 pensioner units to serve 460,000 people. That is a nice example of responsible government, of acting in a responsible way and of caring for all the people in the Victorian community. 
If honourable senators think that that is tough on the white Australians in Victoria they ought to have a look at the Aboriginal people in Victoria. The State Housing Commission in Victoria is funded to be responsible for Aboriginal housing. Aboriginal people in the East Gippsland area of Victoria need nouses badly. They live in very poor, bad and overcrowded conditions. The Victorian Housing Commission received money from the Federal Government for Aboriginal housing. The Commission used that money to provide carports to all Aboriginal families who lived in Commission houses. It did not matter whether or not the Aboriginal family had a car. It did not matter whether or not the members of the family had a licence to drive. It did not matter whether or not anyone in the house could drive a car. These Aboriginal families were just given a carport. In fact good, standard, well-built garages were pulled down and carports were erected in their places. Rather than build houses for people who were living in sheds and in overcrowded conditions the Commission built carports for people who did not have a car. 
Some houses in the same area contained old oil stoves. As a result the interior walls of the houses were stained and needed repainting. But the Commission would not undertake this repair work. In some cases old hot water services had worn out and leaked. The Commission painted the outside of the houses whether this was needed or not. Honourable senators would not be surprised to know that the Commission painted all houses in which Aboriginal people lived the same colour. Therefore if one walked down a street one could pick the houses in which Aboriginal people live. Nowhere in Victoria are Aboriginal people properly housed. Nowhere in Victoria is there sufficient housing for Aboriginal people. And yet we are told that no more houses can be built because, for one thing, the money is needed for maintenance. But nowhere are we told where the rents go for houses occupied by Aboriginal people in Victoria. Nowhere are we told why that money is not spent on maintenance and why the money that should be used to house people is not spent on housing instead of building carports and doing unnecessary maintenance in some areas. 
The Victorian Government was funded for the implementation of Aboriginal health programs. 
The State Health Department received the funding. The funding was made available. The aides were employed but no program was developed. The money was spent on aides who in some cases are used to ferry people to hospital but who are not used for any real health program in Victoria. This despite the fact that people in the area say that over 90 per cent of Aboriginal children in Victoria have hearing defects, despite the rising diabetic problem among Aboriginal people in Victoria and despite the alcohol problem among people in Victoria. The money is used in offices, in filling out forms, in taking people to hospitals but not on any real program. The situation is the same in the education field. Money has been given to the Victorian Government for Aboriginal education. But there are no Aboriginal teaching aides. It is interesting to read the 1 979-8 1 report of the Tertiary Education Commission. The report states: 
Some States more than others have encountered impediments to effective forward planning. The Council is conscious of the efforts being made by the Victorian State Council for Technical Education to ensure that in future TAFE planning receives the necessary impetus. The problems to be dealt with are considerable. It is understood that accommodation of the projected increase of 14,000 enrolments in Victoria in 1979 will require increasing rather than decreasing reliance on a multitude of annexes, transportables and other forms of temporary accommodation. The outer western and northern areas of Melbourne lack a TAFE college, and college sizes, sites and courses for these areas are yet to be determined. Because Victoria's forward planning has not yet matched its requirements for new and replacement accommodation, Council is recommending rather less for capital grants in 1979 than would be warranted on the basis of need. 
If Victoria wishes to obtain the share of the funds being provided by the Comonwealth during the triennium appropriate to its acknowledged degree of need, it will be necessary for it to have developed by March 1979, a firm program for the next few years which incorporates realistic target dates for action to provide new places and overcome deficiencies. 
In other words, the Victorian Government is so outstanding in its achievement, it is so responsible in the field of education, it is so responsible for the training of the thousands of young people in Victoria who are now out of work, that it nas not even put in the plan to use up the money that the Federal Government has made available for technical school building funds. The Technical and Further Education Council of the Tertiary Education Commission presented a report last year in which it said that Victoria faced an increasing reliance on temporary class accommodation. It said that Victoria's forward planning has not yet matched its requirements for new and replacement accommodation. The report, which caused little fuss when tabled, is the first in which individual States have been criticised. It has yet to be accepted by this Government. 
This Government evidently does not take on the responsibility. It has not said to the Victorian Government: 'You have a large number of children in the western suburbs who will not get jobs because you say they are undertrained. You have done nothing about claiming the money which we have made available so that you can build the colleges to train the teachers and so that you can build the technical schools in which the kids can be trained.' We have a Victorian Government which is so responsible that it has set up yet another child minding scheme in which young teenagers can be given cups of coffee and can talk to people on the telephone. But it has not done anything about the extra training that is necessary for kids to get jobs. It has done nothing about providing the jobs that those children need so that they can take their proper place in the world. 

 Senator Missen talked about what the Labor Government did or did not do. At least our Government felt responsible for people and trusted governments to do their best for people. The Victorian Government does not take up its responsibilities. It does not seem to care about any scheme from which one cannot make money. The Federal Government, apart from hurling abuse at us here today, has not done anything practical about urging the Victorian State Government to get on with the job that it is supposed to do. I again quote  Mr Anthony-  and who better than the  Deputy  Prime Ministerwho said: 
The Victorian Government is running out of steam and when a Government runs out of steam, it gets into trouble. 
In accordance with provisions of the Public Works Committee 1969 I present the 42nd general report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. I seek leave to make a short statement relating to the report. 
Leave granted. 
As in past years, the report summarises the Committee's activities for the previous twelve months, in this case, the period ending 31 December 1978. In addition to activities relating to the six reports presented by the Committee, quite a number of the 49 occasions on which the Committee met were for the purpose of its inquiry into the proposed Defence Force Academy, which the Committee hopes to report on in the near future. In addition,  at the request of the Presiding Officers, the Committee obtained evidence and provided advice on the proposed alterations to the front entrance of Parliament House. Included in the report is a summary of the progress of works previously reported on by the Committee, the likelihood of the Committee's examining proposed works of selected statutory authorities in the future, a review of some aspects of the non-reference of defence works to the committee and a comment concerning changes to works proposed that have occurred after the Committee's report to Parliament. The Senate may be assured that the Public Works Committee continues to examine works proposals in a manner which ensures that there is a need for the works and that the proposed expenditure is fully justified. 
Has the Minister for Science and the Environment read the report from the United States authorities on the use of 2,4,5-T in Oregon? Is the Government concerned that despite the actions of authorities in the United States of America, the National Health and Medical Research Committee in Australia has advised the Government that there is insufficient evidence to warrant withdrawal of the herbicide 2,4,5-T even if only as a precaution until Australian authorities can carry out their own research? Is the Government concerned that whilst in America since 1970 precautions have been taken to prevent pregnant women and women of childbearing age from making contact with this material, here in Australia pregnant housewives can purchase the herbicide from supermarket shelves with no warning of the physical damage that can be done by excessive use of the chemical involved? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. In view of the continuing and far-reaching dilemma nuclear engineers are faced with in Pennsylvania, the latest report that there is a nuclear reactor in South Korea approaching a similar critical state, the fact that five nuclear reactors were closed in America because they were built in an earthquake area, the fact that a reactor is planned for an earthquake area in the Philippines, the fact that a Swedish reactor has released considerable amounts of radioactivity into the atmosphere and the fact that an Italian reactor is reported as closing because of very significant amounts of radioactivity being released into the River Po, does the Government intend to differentiate between safeguards directed towards preventing the improper use of fissionable materials and their diversion into weapons manufacture and safety as concerned with the safe operation of all elements of the nuclear industry? Will the Government in future insist upon guarantees of safey as regards environmental control and operations of reactors as well as these other safeguards before overseas contracts are approved? 
-On behalf of  Senator McClelland  I present the following petition from 1,598 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors respectfully showeth: 
That Compensation benefits payable to injured Australian Government employees and Defence Forces personnel under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act 1971 should be increased as a matter of urgency in view of the financial plight of recipients, particularly those suffering long term incapacity and because of the significant increase in the cost of living which has occurred since compensation payments were last adjusted; and 
That statutory provision should be made for the automatic adjustment of compensation benefits. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petitions from 45, 4 1 and 99 citizens of Australia, respectively: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members ofthe Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens  or  Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the credibility of the Westminster Parliamentary system is weakened by the resignation in protest of Ministers of the Crown without adequate explanation of the reason or reasons for the resignations being given to the electorate and that the situation is further exacerbated by the reappointment ofthe recently resigned Minister within a very brief period, again without any meaningful explanation to the people of Australia. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, take note of the need for the electorate at large to bc fully informed so that the confidence of the people is not diminished in the democratic process in general and the Parliamentary process in particular. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received and read. 
I present the following petition from 27 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate 'is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. Does the Government intend that only people of means will be able to take action over non-compliance with equal opportunity legislation? I refer to the case of  Mrs Deborah  Wardley who is arguing her case against Ansett Airlines of Australia before the Equal Opportunity Board in Melbourne and who was reported today as saying that she and her husband would have to go into debt if she is to continue although her solicitor is working free of charge. Does the Government intend playing a role in the field of anti-discrimination and equal opportunity by assisting with the legal costs of people who wish to pursue claims? 
I present the following petitions from 93 and 54 citizens of Australia, respectively: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the credibility of the Westminister Parliamentary system is weakened by the resignation in protest of Ministers of the Crown without adequate explanation of the reason or reasons for the resignations being given to the electorate and that the situation is further exacerbated by the reappointment of the recently resigned Minister within a very brief period, again without any meaningful explanation to the people of Australia. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, take note of the need for the electorate at large to be fully informed so that the confidence of the people is not diminished in the democratic process in general and the Parliamentary process in particular. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received and read. 
I present the following petition from 145 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science and the Environment. As the Federal Government has agreed to the opening of the Nabarlek mine in Arnhem Land by Queensland Mines Ltd, the Minister would know that radon gas decay products will build up very rapidly in the small Nabarlek pit and may exceed the levels adopted in the Australian Code of Practice on Radiation Protection in Mining and Milling of Radioactive Ores. If, therefore, miners are in danger of being exposed to higher levels of radiation, Queensland Mines would be in danger of breaking the law. I ask: Does the Government intend to amend the code of practice to accommodate Queensland Mines Ltd? Is the supervisory scientist to be given any special instructions on the matter? Will the mine be closed if the level of radiation exceeds the set limit? Will Queensland Mines be required to check constantly the health of miners and will Queensland Mines be responsible for any loss of wages arising from such closure of the mine? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Will the Minister confirm that when he wrote to the  National Times  on 12 May this year stating that between 1975-76 and 1978-79 funds for the Victorian Aboriginal Health Service have increased by 56 per cent he included in that calculation the capital cost of establishing a dental service? If so, is it correct that, if that amount is excluded from the calculation, the funding and the recurrent capital costs of the service over that period have in real terms been reduced? 
I present the following petition from 46 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the credibility of the Westminster Parliamentary system is weakened by the resignation in protest of Ministers of the Crown without adequate explanation of the reason or reasons for the resignations being given to the electorate and that the situation is further exacerbated by the reappointment of the recently resigned Minister within a very brief period, again without any meaningful explanation to the people of Australia. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, take note of the need for the electorate at large to be fully informed so that the confidence of the people is not diminished in the democratic process in general and the Parliamentary process in particular. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I  present the following petition from 74 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The petition of the undersigned electors respectfully showeth: 
That compensation benefits payable to injured Australian Government employees and Defence Forces personnel under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act 1971 should be increased as a matter of urgency in the view of the financial plight of recipients, particularly those suffering long term incapacity and because of the significant increase in the cost of living which has occurred since compensation payments were last adjusted: and 
That statutory provision should be made for the automatic adjustment of compensation benefits. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. In view of the reports that the new points system for selecting migrants is designed to favour applicants from Rhodesia, South Africa and the British Isles over migrants from countries such as Greece, Turkey, and Lebanon, and in view of further reports that since the points scheme was introduced over 200 South African migrants have been accepted while one Greek migrant has been admitted, will the Minister supply the Senate with the actual numbers of migrants admitted to Australia from South Africa, Rhodesia, the British Isles, Turkey, Greece, and Lebanon for each of the months since the system was introduced? 
I  present the following petition from 68 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the credibility of the Westminster Parliamentary system is weakened by the resignation in protest of Ministers of the Crown without adequate explanation of the reason or reasons for the resignations being given to the electorate and that the situation is further exacerbated by the reappointment of the recently resigned Minister within a very brief period, again without any meaningful explanation to the people of Australia. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, take note of the need for the electorate at large to be fully informed so that the confidence of the people is not diminished in the democratic process in general and the Parliamentary process in particular. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will every pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 1 3 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 56 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the credibility of the Westminster Parliamentary system is weakened by the resignation in protest of Ministers of the Crown without adequate explanation of the reason or reasons for the resignations being given to the electorate and that the situation is further exacerbated by the reappointment of the recently resigned Minister within a very brief period, again without any meaningful explanation to the people of Australia. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, take note of the need for the electorate at large to be fully informed so that the confidence of the people is not diminished in the democratic process in general and the Parliamentary process in particular. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. Earlier today the Attorney-General referred to a complaint from the Australian oil explorers that they were not allowed to have seismic ships in the Great Barrier Reef area. Last week members of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and Environment were told by a member of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority that there was such a ship in that area at that time. Will the Minister advise whether or not there are any seismic vessels in the Barrier Reef area at this time? If there are, how many are in the area and for what oil companies are they working? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. A national family survey conducted by the University of New South Wales has shown that nearly 320,000 children live in one-parent families, which families make up over 9 per cent of the nation's families and a great majority of these children are dependent on parents who receive social security pensions. The Minister would be aware that the children's allowance upon which these children depend is set at $7.50 a week. In view of the fact that children reliant on pensions from the Department of Veterans' Affairs receive $10.50 a week plus an education allowance, will the Minister consider increasing children's allowances to bring them all into line, and giving an education allowance to all children dependent on pensions. 
I rise in this debate because I am concerned that in this area the Federal Government should keep up its commitment. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  says that the Government recognises the need for women 's refuges and has shown its concern by the commitment that it has made, but in view of the promises that have already been broken by this Government, notably with regard to the reduction of income tax and the retention of Medibank, we are worried that its concern about the need for refuges may also go out the window. 
Refuges are needed primarily because of the pressure that is exerted upon people. Although the Government has said that it has a commitment to the development of refuges, it must also recognise that it should show concern because it is the main source from which this pressure arises. The refuges are needed because of the problems that this Government has caused. There is increasing unemployment. Only last week the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  admitted that unemployment would not disappear; that it could reach the figure of 550,000 by next February; and that increasing unemployment was one cause of the pressure which prompts people to react in a violent way and results in women needing refuges. 
Another source of pressure is the decreasing opportunity that is provided to people. There is no promotion, no expansion into new areas, no incentive given youngsters. Everybody is fearful of getting the sack. This too puts pressure on people and causes them to react violently. The increase in interest rates that has occurred- even though the Government said that it would reduce them- has meant that housing has become dearer, that people are more in need of second mortgages, more in need of two incomes in the family. Thus they are subject to increasing pressure and frustration. The houses that they need become further out of reach, and so people react violently. 
This week we have learned of a proposed increase in the cost of health services. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  himself admitted that an increased cost of at least $ 12 a week will be usual for families. We know that extra costs will come about through charges for hospital out-patient services. We know that doctors' fees will increase and families will be faced with the terrible situation of not knowing how they are to pay for the health care of their families. So, people will run away. People will desert. They will act violently to one another to get rid of the frustration and despair that they have. This will mean that more refuges will be needed and the refuges that exist will be overtaxed even more than they are at the moment. 
Whilst this Government says it has a concern in the area, it has to do more than show concern. It has to be very aware of the growing problem and realise that the support for those refuges has to come from this same Government. Honourable senators know that people react violently and cruelly, and that women and children are not in a position to protect themselves against that sort of behaviour. Perhaps the situation in Victoria in regard to refuges is better than in some other States. Even there, refuges that have accommodation for small groups of, say, six to eight women with their children and which deal with people for short periods, have been accommodating up to 74 people over the last six months. The people at all the refuges say that they have received calls for help from three times that number of women during the last six months. So far as they can see, the call for help is increasing every day. More and more people need help. All the refuges indicate that they could take in at least twice as many people as they have accommodation for. 
Great numbers of people do not have access to refuges and do not know that refuges exist. There are also great numbers of people who do not know how to reach the refuges even if they have some knowledge that there is care of that sort available in the community. Whilst the Minister says that the Federal Government is concerned, I learned yesterday that there is a refuge opening in Queanbeyan because the refuges in Canberra cannot take the numbers of people who need them. Their facilities are overtaxed and the Federal Government will not fund extra refuges in Canberra. The Queanbeyan people also point out that, whilst the refuges in Canberra have some supportive services- but not nearly enough- the supportive services that are offered by the New South Wales Department of Youth and Community Affairs are much more attractive, much more supportive and much more real in providing the sort of facilities and back-up services that these refuges need. 
Honourable senators know that the refuges have been, and no doubt will be, attacked because of their political activity. Nobody has defined exactly what that political activity is supposed to be but as  Senator Coleman  has said, the personnel who work in those refuges have no alternative but to expand their own political knowledge and so expand their political activity. They have to advise women on their legal rights, their rights to pensions and allowances, what they can do about housing and schools and what they must do about the care of their children. These people have to develop skills of lobbying to attract funds from government departments, both for the women who use their refuges and for the refuges themselves. They are often at loggerheads with Ministers and with State, Federal and local governments about the refuges and the problems that arise in them. So they have to become skilful in using what people might call political skills to service the areas and the women in the areas in which they work. 
Every day of their lives these people are immersed in the gross injustice and inequality of all the women who either approach them for assistance or who live in those refuges for short periods. They become very concerned at the injustice and the inequality that is meted out to so many of those women. All the women who use the refuges and who work in them become concerned with changing society so that the problem does not exist any more. They do not want to go on having refuges. They do not want band-aids placed over the problem. They want the problem solved. If that is being political or indulging in political activity then, surely, these people are political. I do not use 'political ' as a dirty word. It is something that they have to do and I think it is very brave of many of them to go out to work in that area for the very little reward that they receive. 
The accusation has been made that the women who run or use the refuges are lesbians. These refuges are for women. They are run by women because women in trouble or despair find other women more understanding and more supportive of them. Because they are all women in those houses does not mean that they are lesbians. Because, a group consists of all women, it does not mean that those women are in any way sexually different from the ordinary women in the community. If one is to say that groups of all women contain lesbians, one would have to say that groups of all men contain homosexuals. There are no women sitting in the House of Representatives but I do not believe that the men in that House are homosexuals because of that. I know that on Thursday nights in long weeks of sitting they are tempted sometimes but I am sure that they do not indulge in homosexual activities with each other. It is as absurd to say that they are homosexuals as it is to say that because groups of women are living in houses together those women are lesbians. 
The problem of funding these refuges is not so much a problem of uncertainty about the amount of funds; it is a problem of getting the funds in the first place. The refuges do not know what funding they are to get from year to year; they do not know whether they are to be funded from year to year. The problem has been that funding differs between the States, as  Senator Coleman  has said. This means that because there is unequal funding there are unequal resources. It is unfair to women in States such as Queensland and Western Australia that they do not have at least the resources that States such as Victoria and South Australia have. The problem is that although the facilities are there the States do not assist with funding to the extent that they should. For instance, in Victoria the refuges are used by the police to dump women but the Police Department does not assist with the funding of the refuges and it does not assist with keeping the refuges safe. Some funding is used to provide protective doors, fences, locks and windows because the police will not protect the refuges from men who want to fight and bash their way in to get back what they see as their property- their wives and children who are inside. If the States insisted that the police protect the refuges, as they protect any other property in the States, much expense would be spared. 
The problem with current funding is having to prove need. This is a catch 22 situation. To obtain funding it has to be proved that the need in an area is such that a refuge should be funded. In many instances refuges have to take people out of the areas in which they lived, for the very obvious reason that they have to be protected from violent people who want to break into their refuge. Therefore, refuges may have to be established in areas where there is no immediate awareness of need. People are taken from one suburb and put into another suburb. People might be taken from one side of a city to the other side of that city. This means that it is very difficult to establish need in a specific area. One has to establish first of all that there is an area of need and then one has to convince a department that to service that need refuge has to be provided in another part of the State. It is not easy. 
There is not the money available for refuges that the Minister and the Government say there is. What this Government should look at in a big, rich country such as Australia is that while there is not money to look after people who cannot look after themselves and who are in danger, there is money to pay almost half the cost of developing mine sites- building railways, ports and towns for firms whose profits go overseas. There is not the money to establish refuges in all the places where they are needed, nor to fund and staff them as we should. But, evidently, there is money to allow overseas companies developing the North West Shelf project to deduct the costs of developing that project from the Australian profits for their oil refining and marketing organisations. The Government does not have the money to provide and staff all the refuges in the areas where they are needed but it can allow Utah Mining Australia Ltd to send back to America profits of the order of $200m. 
What is the point of talking about Australia being a rich country that can look after its people if, when we get to the bottom end of the scale, we have people who cannot look after themselves? We admit that the community has a responsibility to look after these people but we allow the mining companies to rape this country and to send the profits that they make out of our resources back to their home countries. This Government has to look at things like resources taxes, which I know it sees as a dirty word and certainly the mining and oil companies see as a dirty word. The Government has a responsibility to use the resources of this country to look after our people. 
The Deputy Prime Minister said last week that no one should expect things to get much easier. It is very obvious to some people that in the next 12 months, and perhaps in the 12 months after that, things will get very much more difficult. The Opposition hopes that this Government will recognise that there is a very real need to act in this area in order that the resources of this country are used to look after the people who have no place to go and are the responsibility of any Australian government. 
I present the following petition from 30 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the credibility of the Westminster Parliamentary system is weakened by the resignation in protest of Ministers of the Crown without adequate explanation of the reason or reasons for the resignations being given to the electorate and that the situation is further exacerbated by the reappointment of the recently resigned Minister within a very brief period, again without any meaningful explanation to the people of Australia. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, take note of the need for the electorate at large to be fully informed so that the confidence of the people is not diminished in the democratic process in general and the Parliamentary process in particular. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 9 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change are a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilize whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire; 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 14 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth that in spite of numerous measures taken by various governments, unemployment in the country has not significantly declined. 
As a result, supplies of both goods and services have declined; human resources are wasted, capital resources arc not used and natural resources are left under-developed. 
Both local and overseas experience shows that prosperity is encouraged when taxes, which penalise production are replaced by taxes which provide incentives for productivity. These also provide disincentives to idle speculation such as that which results in so called 'windfall profits' from land price increases. 
The reduction of Income-tax, Sales-tax and Payroll tax is known to reduce the costs of production and to stimulate demand. 
It is also known that when Land Tax or Council Rates are raised on the unimproved site value of land, then the development of vacant land and under-developed slum areas is stimulated. 
It follows then, that the gradual replacemnt of taxes on production with taxes on non-production will create new employment, reduces the costs of production, reduces the rate of interest, the cost of housing and stimulates all industries. 
We wish to point out that the replacement of production penalising taxes is a very practical proposal. According to official Municipal Valuations, it is estimated that Unimproved Site Values have increased from $337,000m in 1973-74 to $367,000m by 1976-77. This represents $30,000m so called 'windfall profits' which was completely unrelated to productive improvements. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should act to relieve unemployment by a Taxation Reform to replace taxes on production with taxes which provide incentives for the increased supply of both goods and services. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Science and the Environment. Last week I asked the Minister whether there were seismic vessels in the Great Barrier Reef area at this time, how many were there and for what oil companies they were working. At that time the Minister said that he was not aware of such ships being in the area. Since that time, has the Minister received any further information on this matter; if not, does he intend to seek such information? 
I present the following petition from 3 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the credibility of the Westminster parliamentary system is weakened by the resignation in protest of Ministers of the Crown without adequate explanation of the reason or reasons for the resignations being given to the electorate and that the situation is further exacerbated by the reappointment of the recently resigned Minister within a very brief period, again without any meaningful explanation to the people of Australia. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, take note of the need for the electorate at large to be fully informed so that the confidence of the people is not diminished in the democratic process in general and the parliamentary process in particular. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Yesterday in another place the Prime Minister gave figures purporting to be the costs of converting the two Boeing 707 aircraft for use in the VIP fleet and for defence purposes. Can the Minister supply the Senate with the continuing costs of the refit that will be necessary each time the aeroplanes are converted from defence to VIP use? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1 969, 1 present the report of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Public Works relating to the following proposed work: Defence Force Academy, Australian Capital Territory. I present also a copy of the transcript of evidence related to the Committee's inquiry.  Mr President,  I seek leave to make a statement relating to the report. 
Leave granted. 
The investigation into the proposed work has taken over 12 months. Fifty witnesses were examined by the Committee during eight public hearings and two private hearings. In view of the complexity of the proposal and the length of the inquiry, the Committee decided that both Houses should be given the opportunity of examining in detail all the evidence placed before the Committee. We have arranged, therefore, for copies of the minutes of evidence of the whole inquiry to be made available to honourable senators at the same time as the report is presented. Copies of the evidence, which comprises four volumes, are available in the Table Office for those honourable senators who require them. The basic concept of the Defence Force Academy was to replace the degree stream component of the Royal Military College, the Royal Australian Air Force Academy, the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology, the Darling Downs Institute and the Royal Australian Navy College with a single academy which would provide a balanced and liberal university education in a military environment for officer cadets of the three Australian Services, concurrently with a program of professional military training. The institution so created would be both a university and a military academy. 
The Committee agreed that there is a need for a greater proportion of tertiary educated officers in the Defence Force and that cadets should be involved in a military environment as much as possible during their tertiary studies. There was no clear evidence, however, that the training of cadets of all Services in a common establishment would of itself provide any improvement in the quality of officers. The Committee rejects the view that association at cadet level will significantly foster inter-Service co-operation and understanding and believes that this objective can be fostered more effectively at a more senior level. Each Service has differing requirements and tri-Service arrangements can lead to unsatisfactory compromises. The Committee believes that each Service should be free to determine its own method of educating officers and there should not be an enforced uniformity of education. 
The Committee concluded that consolidation of the officer production facilities of each Service is more desirable and justified that the consolidation on a tri-Service basis of the tertiary training of the three Services. The Committee received conclusive evidence that there is insufficient use of tertiary education institutes and recommends that full use should be made of these institutes. Based on these conclusions, the Committee recommends that it is not expedient to proceed with the construction of the proposed work. The recommendation of the Committee is unanimous. 
The Committee has put forward a number of suggested arrangements for the three Services which should be examined as a means of providing cost-effective tertiary education towards the training of highly skilled professional officers of the Defence Force. The Committee is firmly of the opinion that the suggested arrangements can be provided at a lesser capital cost than for the proposed academy, and that recurrent costs can at best be kept as low as those currently obtaining, probably very close to those estimated for the Academy.  Mr President,  I commend the report to honourable senators. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Advice has been given that packets of contraceptive pills in Britain are to carry an official health warning. Women who have the pills prescribed by their doctors or by family planning clinics will be given a warning leaflet with the pills. As the first company to issue the warning- the Schering company- also markets contraceptive pills in Australia, will the Government insist that this company distribute the warning with its product in Australia? Will the Government arrange for similar products to carry a similar warning? 
-I wish to speak to the motion because I am concerned about the subject of this report. Like  Senator Button,  I have not had a chance to read it. But in the last week I received a reply to a request I made to the Victorian Minister for Education for some details about Victoria's migrant education program and migrant education teachers. A paragraph in the letter caused me some concern, lt reads:  lt is pointed out that a State-wide survey of all schools will be carried out by the Child Migrant Education Service in June. Statistical information regarding the enrolment of children of migrant background in schools which have not sought assistance from the Child Migrant Education Service in the past will then be available. 
That seemed extraordinary to me. Over the last 25 years migrants have been bringing their children to this country. Over the last 25 years children of migrant parents have been bom in this country. We have had problems involving children being isolated from their parents because the children have spoken one language and the parents have spoken another. We have had migrant mothers isolated from both husbands and children because they have no longer spoken the language spoken by their husbands and children. We have had people who have lost their pride in the culture of the country from which they came. We have had people in this country who have not had the knowledge of the role that their forebears played in the development of Australia. We have had a tremendous loss of pride by people because they did not know the part that their own country- their country of originplayed in developing world culture. 
We have had extraordinary problems which could have been solved had somebody bothered to find out the sorts of problems existing, the numbers of migrant children involved, or the numbers of children with migrant backgrounds in school. Yet the Minister for Education in Victoria is telling me that next year a survey will be carried out to find out the sort of problem that exists in Victoria at the moment. It seems to me that if somebody had cared a little more, a long time ago, either on a State or Federal basis, children from migrant backgrounds might be growing up with a lot more pride and standing a lot taller in the community than is the case at the moment. 
We might have found that just as knowledge of Captain Cook perhaps does something for British children, and knowledge of Burke and Wills might do something for Australian children, knowledge of Columbus- and Australian children's knowledge that Columbus was Italianmight have done something to give Italian children a greater feeling of belonging to the Australian community. We might have found that Australian children took a different view of the Greek children at their school had they known that Plato was a Greek, and the part that he played in developing our civilisation. We might have found the reaction of Australian children to Arabs and Arab children might have taken a different turn had they realised the origins of mathematics and where that skill and that science had originated. We do not know yet where migrant children are located. We do not know where they are enrolled, and we do not know in what numbers they are enrolled. I find that extraordinary. 
I was told in the ministerial letter that I received that schools must apply to the Department for migrant teachers. If they do not apply to the Department, they have no entitlement to migrant teachers. I was told that the guidelines for entitlement were determined by the Department, and they were determined not to provide an entitlement for migrant teachers where they are needed, but to provide an equitable distribution of the total number of migrant education teachers. That seems to suggest that the Commonwealth provides funds and the States allot those funds not on the basis of need- not on the basis of the areas in which children who need this assistance to become properly educated are located- but on the basis of the total number which we can afford to help. The funds are then doled out to those areas where the Department thinks they might do some good. 
I live in the second largest Greek speaking city in the world. The high school that my youngest children attend has a large number of Greek children. They have no appreciation of Greece and no appreciation of what Greek culture has meant to this world. No Greek teacher is provided for the Greek children who attend that school. So they have a very low regard both of themselves and of the culture of the country from which they come, as well as a low estimation of the contribution that they can make to Australian culture at the moment. I also find in this second largest Greek speaking city in the world that those Greek parents who are concerned about their children and who are concerned that they should retain their Language and their culture are asked to pay rent for the use of state school buildings. Yet they are the ones who organise the classes for their children. The parents have to organise the classes as well as to arrange for and pay the teacher. This whole field of education has to be undertaken by the children in their spare time. In addition to that the Department requires that the parents pay rent for the time that they use the school building. 
I as a parent- I suppose originally I came from some migrant background, but it is so far back that it plays little part in my life or the lives of my children- resent the fact that my children are growing up alongside children whose background and culture could enrich their lives and my life if the Department of Education in Victoria and if the Federal Minister of Education  (Senator Carrick)  took a broader view of what we mean and what: we want when we say that we want education funded they make little effort to employ bilingual teachers. We talk about bilingual teachers and bilingualism. We know that all children love to watch television. When this Government went to the polls at the last election, it promised to provide ethnic television programs. Now, very belatedly, it is attempting to do something about ethnic television. 
Instead of giving us some richness in language, some richness in culture from other parts of the world, over the last two or three weeks all we have really had has been a half-baked travelogue which has given us a very rough idea of some cultures in other parts of the world. Such programs may make some of the migrant people who have come to this country nostalgic for the country from which they came, but they would give their children a very rough and ready idea of the country from which their parents came. They make no attempt to use television in the way in which television can be used. They make no attempt to extend the language facility to Australian-born children or to children born of foreign parents. There is no reference whatsoever to the problems that arise for children of migrant parents trying to grow up in the Australian community and the Australian culture. 
I hope that this report gets to the heart of some of these problems. I hope that it is widely read by Australian born people in the community so that they understand some of the problems. I hope that the Minister takes the report to heart and extends his vision when it comes to dealing with migrant children in the community. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Peter  Baume) adjourned. 
I take advantage of the debate on these Bills concerning the funding of government schools to draw attention to an area in which funding is not being extended, an area of education to which the Federal Government and the State governments have not looked. I maintain that it should be looked at. I wish to talk about children who find themselves confined to hospitals for the mentally retarded, even though they are not mentally retarded. I shall mention a girl who has been in one of these hospitals all her life and who has turned out to be highly literate. I shall talk about the authority's attitude to the children in those schools and I shall ask the Federal Government to take some action in this area. In Victoria we have the St Nicholas Hospital for the grossly mentally and physically retarded. It was the old Royal Children 's Hospital. 
Yes. It was the Royal Children's Hospital until that hospital got a new building. The Mental Health Authority took over the old building and put in it grossly and severely retarded babies. No structural change was made to the hospital. It was opened in 1964 for these severely retarded children. But those babies grew and now, 1 5 years later, there are young people in the hospital of 1 7, 18 and 1 9 years of age who have known no life other than the life they have led in this building which was not built for their needs and which has in no way helped them. The facilities are very over-crowded. There is no privacy. The children live in dormitories housing 25, 27 or 30 children each. There is no privacy in the toilet facilities. Yet teenagers live in this building. They sleep in the old iron cots that were put into the building for the babies for whom it was supposed to cater in the years prior to 1 964. 
These young adults go to bed at 4.30 in the afternoon because that is the routine that has been set up in this hospital. They are dressed in clothes that are chosen at random from a common stock. These teenagers have never been to the pictures or the football and have never had a holiday. They have lived all their lives in this environment because the bureaucracy- the authorities- says that they are mentally retarded and require no more than to be kept warm, to be fed and to be sheltered. In this hospital there is one full time physiotherapist. There are no speech therapists and no occupational therapists. Before 1 974 there were no teachers in the building. It was felt that because it was thought that the children were mentally retarded they required no sort of education. So they were given no education; they were just kept in the building. In 1974 one teacher started there. She found that there was no educational program for the children and endeavoured to begin one. Until the end of 1975 she was the only teacher there although there were nearly 200 children in the establishment. Most of them had been there since they were babies- some since they were as young as four months old, some fourteen months old and some four years old. Not many were older than that when they went there. The children had lived all their lives there without any education program at all. 
At the end of 1975 the Education Department conceded that they might need some sort of education. The first teachers from the Department came into the hospital in mid- 1 976, when some of these young people were really well grown, young adults. Amongst those young people was a girl who had been put into the hospital when she was four years old because authorities said that she was severely mentally and physically retarded. Between 1964 and 1977 Anne lay on the floor; she was fed, kept warm and kept alive. There was no stimulation, no companionship and no educative program. Because there were so many children to be fed by so few staff their food was mixed up into one bowl. If the food for the evening meal was soup, roast lamb and three vegetables, and apples and custard, it was all mixed into one bowl and fed at once because there was not sufficient time or staff to feed them properly and because, in any case, they were all mentally retarded and would not know the difference. 
In 1977 a woman came to St Nicholas who felt that something else should be done for these children, that there was a spark there, a recognition. She began a program designed to teach, to communicate and to stimulate these children. She began to teach Anne to communicate. By September of that year- a bare five months later- Anne, who had never had any education  or  stimulation, had begun using words in sentences and spelling out sentences. She had read books such as  Roots  and communicated to people on matters of current interest such as who had been selected for seats in the Federal Parliament and what was being done on the matter of mining uranium. She had spelt out a page of phonetic Yugoslav. It was Yugoslav but it was phonetic because she had never seen it written. She had spent all her life amongst people who spoke Yugoslav and had learnt the language. After not being given any education until 1977, Anne is now at a most advanced level, and some people say that she is capable of doing third year university mathematics. 
The Director of Special Education in Victoria was told of the program. The Director of the Mental Deficiency Services in Victoria was told of the program and her advance. The superintendent of St Nicholas was told of the program and of her advance. The Minister of Education and the Minister of Special Education in Victoria were told of the program that was being conducted for the children and of the advance they had made, but no action was taken, presumably because they were still quite sure that their original prediction that Anne was mentally retarded was right and that these people were fooling themselves. Apparently people who are mentally retarded do not have to be educated. Only the normal or the brilliant pupils have to be educated. We do not have to educate people who may take a little longer to learn but who may have something to contribute to society. 
Because the hospital was nagged and because reports kept coming to it during this period, it agreed to purchase automatic page turners for the children. In August 1977 the hospital agreed that an automatic page turner, costing $1,000, could be bought because at that time there were three children at St Nicholas who were fully literate and seven more who were at the word recognition stage of literacy. That is the information that was put forward in respect of the decision to buy the page turner. Even though the people in authority were saying that these children were still retarded, they were prepared to put forward that argument when they agreed to buy a page turner. In August 1977- the same year- the superintendent agreed to purchase a Possum communication device costing $5,000, and the purchase was approved by the Mental Health Authority. Even though it maintained that no education was necessary, it agreed that the Possum communication device, costing a large amount of money, could be bought. 
The device did not turn up at the hospital until February 1978, and it was then apparent to people that the children would be unable to use the device unless they had remedial therapy. However, the authorities were not prepared to supply the remedial therapy to enable the children to use the device. They had agreed that $5,000 should be used to buy it but they were not prepared to admit that the children could use it or were capable of using it. They were not prepared to put the money into the remedial therapy that was needed to assist the children to use the device. So 13 children who had built up their hopes and expectations of at last having a means of communicating with the outside world were sent back to the darkness of disappointment because the authorities were prepared to waste $5,000. Evidently they were not prepared to argue that the $5,000 was not needed. They were prepared to waste the $5,000 and not provide the equipment and the assistance needed to use it. The authorities were prepared to disappoint the children to that extent. 
By this time other people outside the Mental Health Authority and outside this establishment had become interested in these children and were impressed by them. The special education centre at Burwood State College had watched the children work and had watched this particular child work. It had agreed that she could communicate and that there was intelligence there. The State College of Melbourne had watched the children communicate and had communicated with them and it agreed that there was intelligence there. Therapists and other people in the community also had watched and listened to the children and had agreed that there was intelligence there and that something should be done about them. But none of the people in authority was prepared to act. The Mental Health Authority was not prepared to let anybody else into its area, the Department of Education did not have the strength or the will to move in, and the Ministers could not have cared less. Nothing really was done about educating these children. People who were concerned and who worked with them asked the State department for funds in order to give these children proper education and a proper place to live. This request was refused. The Schools Commission was asked for funds from the innovations program to give these children the education and the environment they needed. Funding was refused. 
The case was submitted to the Federal Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  and he showed concern. He said that he understood the situation because he had worked in the area but that he had better refer the matter to his comrade in the State. He referred it to the State Minister of Education and to the Minister of Special Education, who replied that it was a matter for the Mental Health Authority and that they should not interfere. They inferred that he should not interfere, and he did not. 
The State would like to hide behind the idea that the mentally retarded do not need any education, that the mentally retarded are not the problem of the Education Department, and the Department agrees. It too would like to hide behind that barrier because it is a difficult situation. It is a hard area to move into, especially when the money is not available and there is insufficient equipment and staff. It is especially difficult when one looks at the hundreds and hundreds of people who have been in institutions for years and who have not been educated but have been left to rot. Nobody wants to front up and say: We should have been concerned and it should have been our problem'. So the Health Department is left with the problem, and by now it must have built up some sort of barrier which guarantees that the hurt will not get through. The Health Department maintains that these people are mentally handicapped and that their proper place is in institutions for the mentally retarded. These people are not mentally handicapped, but the State and Federal governments and the State and Federal education departments do not want to know about what is happening to them and do not want to look at them. 
The report of the Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training- the Williams reporthas been quoted to us over the last few weeks and will be quoted to us again. It states: 
The Committee recommends to Commonwealth and State authorities that existing special education programs for the handicapped bc extended beyond the statutory school leaving agc and provided in the vocational setting. 
But what the Williams Committee did not say was that there are people who are handicapped in more ways than one. There are people who are handicapped by bodies that will not work for them. There are people who cannot get the message out because of the ridiculous bodies which handicap them. Somebody has to listen to their cry for help and do something about it. The teachers in Victoria heard that cry and knew something of the problem of the people inside St Nicholas Hospital. They raised the matter of the future of St Nicholas Hospital, of its children and of its education annexe and its staff. They asked: What will be the extent of departmental restructuring following the imminent disbandment of the Mental Health Authority? Victoria no longer has a Mental Health Authority. It just has a Health Authority. These children are now caught up entirely in the functions of the Health Authority and the Education Department has no word in it. 
The Victorian Teachers Union has said that these are just some of the questions for which it is experiencing great difficulty in obtaining answers. The Union sent letters to the Minister for Health,  Mr Houghton,  and the Minister for Special Education,  Mr Scanlan,  in September of last year. The Ministers were advised that education staff in the old building at Drummond Street, Carlton, which was formerly the Children's Hospital, were jeopardising their health and the safety of the students by carrying the children frequently on a 16-step fire-escape which provided the only access between the dormitories and the education area. At the annexe, five teachers and four full time and three part time teacher aides provide an educational service for children who are multiple handicapped. The need to lift the children has caused four injuries to staff. One teacher aide had to retire this year through a back injury. There is no equipment to accommodate these children. They have none of the special chairs that could be used, they have no lifts to use and there is no special equipment that they can use to educate them. The Union has held discussions with the Mental Health Authority and the Minister for Health. The  Teachers Journal  of December 1978 states: 
When this Journal went to press, a picture of utter confusion existed. 
At a time when only 55 of the 108 children can receive any help from teaching staff, only 38  of them   participate in group ward programs and 17 receive any intensive programming, there appears to be prolonged procrastination between the Health, Public Works and Special Education Departments. 
This frustrating situation exists despite Premier Hamer 's public comment in September: 'Elsewhere - 
Presumably, that is outside Victoria-  children moderately or severely handicapped arc regarded as a health or mental health responsibility- Victoria regards them as trainable and educable'. 
But Victoria has done nothing about them except to make such pious statements. Thirteen children who have spent their lifetime in that institution, who have now been proved to be educable, to be intelligent, and who are locked up in ridiculous bodies that will not work, have to put up with pious statements like that while Ministers and Premiers do nothing at all about them. 
The authorities feel threatened. These children were placed in these institutions when they were very young and they have never been reassessed. Nobody has ever done anything to assist them. 
The authorities tend to put the responsibility onto the parents. For years the parents of these children were not brought into any programs because there were no programs to bring them into. Over the last few years, as it has been proved little by little that the children are able to be educated, the parents have been kept in the dark. The staff has been told not to communicate with them, not to take the matters to them. Now the authorities tend to put the responsibility on the parents and the parents are left in a terrible position of doubt, fear and self-blame. What would most parents do if they had a small baby or small child whom the authorities said was severely retarded and had advised them to put away? They would be faced with a terrible problem. They are not geniuses; they are just human beings whose baby will never be any better according to the people who should know. What should they do if they are told that it will never be any better, that it is hopelessly retarded, that it is a vegetable that they should put out of their family and out of their mind, and they have nothing else to do but rely on the people who give them that advice? I suppose that, with a lot of heartache, they will take the advice of the experts and put the child away and then try to forget that they produced that child. It would be hard for them not to believe that there was something wrong with them for producing that child. 
They are now threatened by people who come along and say that because they care more, because they have taken more time, because they have used more tests, the child is not hopelessly retarded. It may be physically retarded, but mentally it is a very clever child, it has got a very high 1Q. Children who have kept their sanity and their curiosity in that sort of sterile atmosphere for all that time would have to be very intelligent. So now we have parents who have to face up to the fact that over those years they have in a sense abandoned a child, left it a prisoner inside a body that would not work. Instead of the authorities reacting with care, love, concern and some sense of excitement because these children are not lost, there is a great future in front of them, and instead of the authorities supporting these parents by bringing them into the programs so that everyone can go on together, they are reacting in a most violent fashion as though they were keeping them prisoners, as though they were gaolers. 
I went to St Nicholas Hospital to visit my friends there. I have been there before to visit them and there was never any trouble. Because a move was started to show people that these children are intelligent and should be taken out of the hospital, the authorities have tended to try to close up the place. I went to the inquiry desk at the visitor's area and said that I wanted to visit my friends. I was told that I had to tell the nurse in charge that I was there. I told her that and she said that I had to fill in a form. I was asked why I wanted to visit these children. I said that they were my friends. I was told that there had been trouble and I should fill in the form. The form I had to fill in asked for my name, age, sex, address, home telephone number, business telephone number, occupation, and place of work. It also asked for the name of the person 1 wished to visit, the age and sex of that person, the reason for visiting, how often I wanted to visit, the days and hours of the intended visits, and whether any assistance would be required and, if so, what sort. I was also asked whether 1 knew the relatives of the resident and, if so, whether I knew the father, mother, brother, sister, grandfather or grandmother. I was asked to state if I had their permission to take the resident home. I had to state whether I had met the superintendent of St Nicholas Hospital, the medical officer of the ward and the director of nursing. I was asked how many members of the therapeutic team of St Nicholas Hospital I knew and requested to give the number and state who they were. 
After filling in the form I had to make an appointment for an interview with the director of nursing. Once I had made and kept the interview with the director of nursing and he had to either recommend or not recommend me to the psychiatric superintendent, I was then to have an interview with the psychiatric superintendent, who would confirm whether I was a fit and proper person to visit my friends at St Nicholas Hospital. When all that was done I was told that if the parents of the children, some of whom were over 1 8 and had voted or were able to vote, agreed that I should visit, I would be allowed to visit. I have gained access to prisons in Australia more easily than I could get into St Nicholas Hospital to visit people who I have come to know and love and who have been incarcerated there for years. 
What is needed? What is needed is for governments to have enough imagination, enough will and enough love to realise that what these children need is to be taken out of these institutions and to be put into separate premises where they have a home and a school, both of which they have never had. What is needed is accommodation and facilities that will provide 24 hour physical care and provide an introduction to the activities of everyday life to children who have been brought up all their lives in institutions. 
What is needed are arrangements for the provision of physiotherapy, occupational therapy and speech therapy which is required to give the children the maximum degree of control over their handicapping conditions; arrangements for educational programs to bring the children to the level of learning of children in their age group in the normal school system; arrangements to develop the technology needed to compensate for the children 's handicaps. 
I have spoken of 12 children who are my friends in an institution in Victoria. There were 13 children. Those 12 friends of mine, because they are physically handicapped and cannot move, had to sit and watch their friend suffocate. He had been placed in one of the bean bags in which they sit. Because he had not been properly placed, he got himself into a position where he suffocated, and they could not help. That is the sort of environment in which they live. Nobody knows, I say, how many more people in Australia are in institutions like that and are prisoners of their bodies. These people cannot get out of their bodies. They are intelligent, caring, thoughtful human beings locked up in a mechanism that will not work. There may be hundreds of people across Australia who are locked up in institutions and about whom we do not care enough. Their minds are not retarded. What they need is a means of communication. It seems incredible to me that in an age when we can put men on the moon, when we can do extraordinarily difficult things, we cannot find a means of communication for these children, for these people, for these adults. The information I have about these matters might be the tip of the iceberg. When the authorities pooh pooh my ideas, I say to them that they do not know because they have never cared enough to find out. 
These people need education. I believe that the Federal Government has a duty to provide education for everybody. I believe that it has a duty to provide education for people who are mentally retarded, and to educate them to the full extent of their capacity. It certainly has a duty to provide education for people such as my friends at St Nicholas. I hope that we will take to heart varying portions of the report of the Williams Committee on Education, Training and Employment. The last paragraph of the introduction to that report struck home to me. It reads: 
The quality and range of the system of education is of great importance to the future of our country. We hope that our report will contribute to the understanding of the problems and possibilities, and help to raise both the quality and efficiency of the system. 
In conclusion, I wish to read from a report that was made on the children at St Nicholas. The last paragraph of that report reads: 
If we choose to keep handicapped people alive we must give them a life worth living. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 28 March 1979: 
1 ) Did the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs or the Minister's Department issue a memorandum to officers stating that people moving to areas where there was little chance of work would have their unemployment benefit cut off and would remain deprived of the unemployment benefit while in the area. 
How will Social Security deal with people who, after recent propaganda, move to fruit picking areas seeking work but who arc unable to find a job on arrival. 
Does the Commonwealth take any responsibility for people who, following advice from the Commonwealth Employment Service, moved into fruit picking areas, and found that it was impossible to earn even as much as unemployment benefit while living in primitive conditions. 
Did the Commonwealth Employment Service know it was impossible to earn a living picking in this area before sending unemployed people there. 
Will such people bc immediately eligible for unemployment benefit. 
-l rise to speak in this debate to accuse the Government of having set out deliberately to polarise this community. The Government, since coming to power, has taken measure after measure to make the rich richer and the poor poorer. It has admitted to such action. I quote the words of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  when he said: 
Real wages are still too high and this remains a major cause of unemployment. The company profit share is still too low. 
So, this Government has set out to see that ordinary men and women have less wages, less food, less education, less health and, in the long run, of course, less security. When the mini-Budget containing the Income Tax (Rates and Assessment) Amendment Bill was presented, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer admitted that they could give no assurance that it would have any improving effect on inflation; in fact, they admitted that there were indications that the inflation rate would increase. The Treasurer, when he introduced the Bill, admitted that it would have no effect on unemployment and that, in all probability, the level of unemployment would be higher next February than it was this February. It is now predicted that the level of unemployment will be 550,000 in February next year. That is an horrific number for a country as rich as Australia- a country that should provide for its people as well as Australia should. That number of 550,000 does not include the people who have given up trying to find jobs- the people who, in many ways, have given up trying to live in our community and our society. It does not include the people who would like to work and who need to work but who cannot find jobs. 
But of course this Government is not all that dismayed by a large pool of unemployed people because it believes that a large pool of unemployed people keeps the work force on its toes. We can pass Bill after Bill through this Parliament, but they will not keep the working people of this country in subjection as much as will a line of unemployed people at the factory gate. People think twice about improving their wages, getting their rightful wage and getting decent conditions of employment when a long line of people is waiting at the gate to take any jobs and when they have wives and children at home to feed. 
While the Treasurer and the Prime Minister were pointing out that things were not going to improve, including the unemployment situation, the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  was saying that the position was improving every day. But then, we have grown used to the fact that one does not quite know which Minister in this Government to believe and to follow. We accept that one Minister does not know what the other Minister is doing. For instance, we had the Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Mr Lynch,  saying that the unemployment benefit could be too high and could be encouraging people to live off the dole. All I can say is that it must be a long time since  Mr Lynch  tried to live off the dole if he thinks that anybody would try to support a wife and bring up a family on the sort of money unemployed people are paid these days, with the costs they have to face. Of course, the Prime Minister denied that his Government believed that the unemployment benefit was too high. But again, who are we supposed to believe and to follow? One expects a Minister in a government to have some feel for what government policy is- to know where his government is going. 
Then again, if the number of promises which have been broken by the Government leaves us in a difficult position to know what the real policy of the Government is, it leaves the people who are busy struggling to keep their heads above water in an even more difficult position to know where they are going. This Government not only wants to reduce the real wages of the working people; it also has set out to reduce the social wage of the people of Australia. It has set out to reduce pensions, the dole, health insurance cover and family allowances. They are all areas which enable governments to distribute income more evenly, to make sure that people live a decent life. The Government's actions have increased the number of unemployed people, the number of people who cannot get jobs, the number of people who will never work again and the number of youngsters who will never have jobs. Yet the Federal Government is prepared to make it harder for people to receive the unemployment benefit, lt is going to tighten the regulations governing the work test. That will place increased onus on unemployed people to prove that they are making sincere and reasonable efforts to find jobs. That is like reversing the onus of proof. No longer are those people innocent until proven guilty. Now it is not the system, or the Government, or the employers of this country who are at fault because there are not enough jobs to go around; it is the ordinary people of Australia who are at fault because they have not used enough reasonable and sincere effort to find jobs. This Government wants the profits of the twentieth century whilst it has the morals of the seventeenth century when it comes to dealing with ordinary people in the work force. A newspaper article states: 
The Federal Government has ordered a crackdown on people receiving unemployment benefits. 
People who arc eligible Tor unemployment benefits have nothing to Tear from visits by departmental field officers', the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Margaret  Guilfoyle, said. 
She said today that resources within her department were being re-allocated to ensure that the validity of unemployment benefit claims were tested about once every three months. 
This Government is unreal when it comes to understanding how ordinary people live. Ordinary people never have money to put by. They use up every cent of their income. They live from week to week or from salary cheque to salary cheque. They are made unemployed or redundant by the actions of this Government and its supporters. Yet the Government is going to use every means it can to grind those people even further down into the mud. Of course, the true Liberal philosophy was shown by the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  recently when he maintained that the under-25- year-olds should not get the dole. That is the true Liberal philosophy: The strong will flourish and the weak will go to the wall- nature's law.  Mr Haslem  was reported to have said: 
There 's too many soft options in society today. 
Being able to sleep in a warm bed, eating three meals a day, having one's children educated and going to the doctor when one is ill are the sort of soft options with which this Government is doing away. Of course, the other area of the work force which the Government blames for the position we are in is that of married women. They should get out of the work force and go home to the kitchen sink and the bedroom. That also is true Liberal philosophy. I suppose that that sort of philosophy was brought into play in the report presented this week on the forgotten work force- the migrant women who are slaving away in garages and workshops. Where is the Government 's policy for those sorts of women? Why has government action not been taken to make sure that people work under decent conditions for decent pay? We are told that if married women get out of the work force there will be jobs for kids. What absolute nonsense! 
We still have a government which has told the people who are unemployed and cannot get jobs that they should go out and spend. Malcolm Fraser told us that we should have faith in the economy and we should go out and spend to keep the economy going. How can we have any recovery when there is no money to spend and to buy goods? How can we keep the economy turning over? When  Mr Lynch  made his comments about the unemployed people being able to survive on a lower unemployment benefit, the Australian Council of Social Services pointed out that the real hardship of people was being ignored. This Government and people such as  Mr Lynch  should look at some of the price rises. In Victoria in the past six months meat prices have risen by 400 per cent. Rents are rising. Transport costs are rising. Petrol prices are rising. While all those costs are going up, this Government wants to reduce wages- real wages and the social wage. 
The mini-Budget attacked the health system. Whilst this Government states that it is still concerned that there should be adequate health care and cover for people, it does not look at the vast numbers of low income people who are uninsured for health care costs. These people are not classed as disadvantaged but they do not have the money to pay for health insurance and to pay doctors' bills. They stay away from the doctor until serious illness develops, unless they can find the money to pay the doctor's fee. Twenty-four per cent of families in Australia are living near or below the poverty line and some of them already are paying for health cover that they cannot afford. They are now to be hit with increased insurance payments. In the preliminary Budget it was made evident that the first lift in costs will be from 1 September, when the Federal Government's new health measures will take effect. One newspaper reported: 
The  president  of the Health Benefits Council of Victoria and general manager of HBA . . . warned last night that the Budget would force funds to make costly and hasty changes to contribution tables. 
The Government has broken an undertaking we had reached with the Minister for Health that we were to make necessary rate change adjustments just once a year, from November 1', he said . . . 
Now wc might have to change the rates on 1 September and change them again from I November to allow for any cost factors such as State government changes to hospital bed costs.' 
The Minister for Health himself has said that there will be increases of between $1.50 and $2.50 a week for families, that it is inevitable. People are confused, people are frightened, people do not know what to do and they are now back to the stage of being terrified that they or their families will become ill. Even the Australian Medical Association was reported as saying that people should keep on private health insurance because large families could face crippling costs is a result of having to pay the whole $20. Doctor Repin should come down to earth too because so many families will face crippling costs if they try to keep on private health insurance. Families in some areas are faced with paying $12 a week more or over $600 a year more than they have been paying for basic health insurance. 
One hesitates to ask what will happen when the Government reintroduces charges for hospital outpatient services. The final link with any sort of health care will be cut off. The Government says: 'We are still concerned, we still have universal health care and we will assist through calling people disadvantaged '. Last year I asked the Minister for Health for a definition of 'disadvantaged '. I asked: 
Can the Minister advise the criteria to be used by doctors in identifying such people? Can the Minister spell out the steps to be taken to preserve people 's privacy in such cases? 
The Minister asked that the question be put on notice. In September last year I received the following answer:  lt is not intended to set out any such criteria in the legislation covering the new health insurance arrangements, it is considered preferable to leave the identification of persons who would fall into the disadvantaged category in the medical profession's hands. This accords with the concept that doctors have traditionally made judgments as to when the overall circumstances of  a  patient require some alleviation from the normal fee structure and that doctors are in the best situation to make such a judgment. 
A doctor will be able to make a decision based on the knowledge he already has of the patient's circumstances. Where unfamiliar with the patient, a doctor is in a position to establish a rapport enabling an adequate assessment of the patient's situation. I believe this is a preferable arrangement to one which labels particular groups of people as disadvantaged or under which people will be subject to a means test. It also enables on the spot decisions to be made between the parties most closely concerned, namely, the patient and the doctor and is capable of immediate adaption to changes in patient's circumstances. 
In this way, flexibility of operation will be achieved and it will not bc necessary to take any special measures to preserve the privacy of such persons as this will be covered by the normal confidential doctor-patient relationship. 
I would add that I have discussed this concept with the Australian Medical Association and have the Association's support for the proposed arrangement. 
It is a pity he did not take the trouble also to discuss the matter with patients who are going to be concerned. It is all very well for the Minister and the AMA to talk about confidential relationships but the confidential relationship that he speaks of is breached by the very fact that the doctor judges the patient and his circumstances. Since when and by what right does a doctor's treatment of one 's appendix give him the right to investigate one's private business and one's bank account? 
We do not like the situation in which people are labelled, but we do not mind labelling pensioners, single mums and unemployed kids. Under the original Medibank system patients had some dignity. They did not have to go along and show a pensioner medical card. They were persons in the community and were dealt with as such. Now they go along and ask the doctor to declare them disadvantaged so that they can afford to pay his bill. Dare I say that doctors now have a vested interest in not declaring people disadvantaged because once they do so they immediately disadvantage their own- that is the doctors '-income? What about people 's ordinary decent pride? They should be able to go along to a doctor as persons in their own right and not have to ask the doctor to declare them some sort of disadvantaged person, to label them in some way, so that they can afford to pay for health care. 
The Government complains that Australia's social welfare bill has risen over the last 17 months. Last year over 1 million applications were made for unemployed benefit; the number of invalid pensioners increased by 254,000; and the number of people in receipt of the supporting parents benefit increased by 59,000. These people are unemployed as a result of the Government's own bungling. It knew the numbers would rise when it set the Budget last year. So who was fooling whom? 
Pensioners, people who have worked and contributed to this country, are being cheated by this Government which promised that pensions would be automatically adjusted. They are now also being cheated in the health care area. Because of Government action unemployment will increase. Invalid pensioners, who are not responsible for the position in which they find themselves, are to be disadvantaged. Single parents and their kids have to be provided for. Yet this Government turns its back on these people. We are now to have increases in personal tax, increases in health costs, rigorous pruning in the field of education, no benefit to those not genuinely seeking work irrespective of whether the work is there to seek or not, less money for housing and less money for public transport. Whilst all those areas are cut back, whilst people are disadvantaged and whilst all these people are tipped into a heap by this Government which sees them only as some sort of work force to be turned on or turned off, the taxpayers of this country have paid millions of dollars to multinationals to take our minerals away. The taxpayers of this country have paid millions of dollars to develop our minerals so that multinationals can take the profits away. Why do we allow our resources to be ripped off and our profits to be taken away? For instance, the Utah Development Company makes millions of dollars out of our coal resources to send out of this country. Why does this happen while countries much smaller than we are have some common sense and some decency when it comes to resources? A tiny country like Jamaica gets $17 a tonne bauxite royalty while a big clever country like Australia gets $ 1 a tonne. 
I said that Jamaica gets $17 a tonne bauxite royalty while we get $1 a tonne. It is no wonder that we cannot afford benefits. It is no wonder that we cannot afford the unemployment benefit, health care, care of the aged and decent education for all children in Australia. In terms of ownership of minerals, royalties, tax and marketing of our energy and mineral resources we are one of the worst countries in the world. We cannot even negotiate a decent deal to keep our people in the state which we would expect. We have no resource tax. We are a big rich country that cannot use its resources to make a good life for its people. We have a government that cannot keep one promise it makes, that cannot look after the least fortunate among us. 
The Liberal Party of Australia Federal Secretariat put out a speech entitled 'Giving Reality to our Vision ' which was delivered by Malcolm Fraser. In that speech he said: 
Non-democratic leaders do not need to be highly responsive to popular demands. Consequently they are capable of rapid policy changes to take advantage of emerging opportunities, they are not constrained to a similar degree by compelling considerations of public morality. 
I think Malcolm Fraser and this Government should take those words to heart and look to themselves and their motives. This Government stands condemned by its breaking of promises, by its ignoring of the need of the people of Australia and by its governing for only one section of the community, namely, that section which makes enormous immoral profits from this country 's resources. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. The Minister has announced that the cost of long distance telephone calls will be reduced from May of next year. Can the Minister advise why such a scheme could not have been made effective from, say, 1 June of this year? If that was impossible, why was it thought necessary to make the announcement 12 months before the new rates are to become applicable? 
I rise to oppose this Bill which would enable the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to borrow money on the open money market to finance the development of the Ranger uranium deposit and the Ranger uranium mine in the Northern Territory. We are critical of the Government's determination to develop Ranger, we are critical of the Government's use of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission for this purpose, and we are certainly critical of the Government for persisting in its efforts to mine and export uranium. The Government has to admit that it has struck a problem in that it cannot find a market for the uranium which it wants to have sent out of Australia. It has hawked Australian uranium all around the world. It has tried in every conceivable part of the world to find customers and so far they are South Korea, the Philippines and Finland. 
Let me deal first with South Korea. South Korea has signed the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and has assured our officials that we can export uranium to that country with a clear conscience. However, at the end of September last year South Korea was showing off its homemade missiles at army day celebrations. Its local newspaper editorialised thus: 
There is no gainsaying that modern wars are decided by guided missiles. All we have to do to turn them into a new weapon is to put nuclear warheads on the missiles we have . . . 
Our missile capacity has exceeded that of North Korea. However, we are still in a stage of initial development, when we compare them to the multihead missiles and other weapons produced by world powers. 
Our remaining task is to continue to develop our weapons system in both quality and quantity. 
Those words were published in a country that this Government assures us is a non-proliferating country when it comes to nuclear weapons, one to which this Government assures us we can export our uranium with a clear conscience. It has signed the non-proliferation treaty but it is hell-bent on using our uranium to provide it with nuclear missiles. 
It most certainly isgenerally because they are objecting to the warlike stance it has taken. The Philippines is a country to which we have agreed to sell uranium. 
Everybody in the world now knows that the area in which the Philippines intends to build its nuclear reactors is on a fault line. It is liable to be affected by earthquakes. After the incident at Three Mile Island in the United States, where it was substantiated that it was not purely human error but also the unexpected functioning of the equipment in the reactor that caused the problem, one wonders how on earth a country could go ahead and build a nuclear reactor in an area which can be affected by earthquakes. The reactor at Three Mile Island in the United States was badly damaged. Nobody is quite sure how badly it was damaged. Nobody is yet sure how the accident happened or why it happened. If such an accident can happen in a country which is as scientifically efficient as the United States, what can happen in a country such as the Philippines? 
It has been very difficult to find customers in the world because of the cost of nuclear energy and because of community disquiet about nuclear reactors and the disposal of the wastes that result from those reactors. I quote to the Senate from an article in  Fortune  magazine on nuclear power in which it was stated: 
Even where the anti-nuclear marchers do not turn up, as they have so conspicuously at the Seabrook plant in New Hampshire, utilities have soured on the nuclear option for other reasons. Shearon Harris,  chairman  of Carolina Power &amp; Light, decided some time ago to build coal plants instead of reactors at a new generating site. Because of federal indecision on fuel reprocessing and waste disposal, Harris says, it is impossible to supply some of the cost data necessary to win permission to build nuclear plants in North Carolina. The only utility that did order reactors last year, Chicago's Commonwealth Edison, is one of the nation's strongest advocates of this form of energy. But the company placed those orders with Westinghouse on terms that let it withdraw on payment of a negligible cancellation fee. Warns Gordon Corey, the utility's vice chairman: 'If the government doesn't get going on a program for waste disposal, we will cancel '. 
The rocketing cost of building nuclear plants alone has discouraged many utilities. As recently as 1970, plants were coming on line at a cost of only $200 a kilowatt. Plants begun today can be expected to cost eight times as much. The main reason for those rising costs is the continuing imposition of stricter safety standards by the regulators ... the reevaluation of the nation's seventy-two nuclear power plants after the accident seems bound to lead to costly new safety requirements. 
In some areas, notably in the Middle Atlantic states where construction costs are especially high, the prospective price of new reactors already staggers the imagination. The New York State Power Authority last month decided to cut its losses after the price tag on a proposed 1,200 megawatt nuclear plant on the Hudson River below Albany, scheduled for completion in the late I980's, climbed from $1.8 billion to $3. 1 billion- a cost that works out at nearly $2,600 a kilowatt. The vote to scrap the project, taken just after the Three Mile Island accident, was financially painful: the authority had already spent $ 1 47 million on the project. 
Later in the article utility executives are quoted as saying: 
But the utilities cannot convincingly refute the point that insufficient provision for the cost of decommissioning an old reactor - 
A cost that is not always taken into account when one talks about the cost of producing electricity from nuclear reactors-  mainly because the nation has no experience yet in dismantling a big one. The highest estimate of dismantling costs that is heard these days comes from Peter N. Skinner, an environmental engineer in the New York State attorney general 's office. He figures it might cost a formidable $249 million, in 1977 dollars, to decommission a I, ISO-megawatt reactor- about a quarter of the cost of building it. 
Then one has to ask: What is the cost and what do we get for the cost by this method of producing electricity? I might as well cite the United States position because that is where it all began. This article goes on to point out: 
So electricity represents only about one-eighth of the energy actually used by consumers. Petroleum products and natural gas, burned by residential and industrial consumers at the point of use, remain the real energy workhorses. Since nuclear power provides only one-eighth of all electricity, it represents a mere sixty-fourth of all energy at the point of use- not a great deal more than firewood. Even ten years from now, assuming all the reactors built or on order are finished and put to use, only about one-thirtieth of the nation 's delivered energy will be nuclear. 
It is little wonder that with the problems the world has with nuclear energy it is not terribly anxious to buy Australia's uranium. Not only does it not provide a real and worthwhile percentage of the electricity produced in the United States, but also it has some hidden charges that are not always taken into account. The article further stated: 
Critics have long complained that the federal government subsidizes nuclear power in several ways: by undercharging for uranium enrichment, by proposing too low a fee for radioactive-waste disposal, and through the Price-Anderson Act, which sets a $S60-million limit on utilities' insurance liability for each reactor accident. In a severe accident, in which claims might run into the billions, the taxpayers would probably get stuck providing aid to the people in the vicinity. And the cost of nuclear power has been questioned because it does not cover the entire anticipated cost of dismantling reactors when their useful life is over. 
That shows what the position is in the United States, but it is not just in the United States that the market is falling away, thus making it an unreliable area in which Australia should invest. An article in the  Australian Financial Review  states: 
Reactor orders have plummeted from a high of 41 in 1973 to zero in 1978. 
Some 24 reactor orders have been deferred indefinitely or dropped altogether since 1974. 
In 1976 nuclear power was endorsed in seven out of seven State referendums. Last year the public voted 'no' in Montana and Hawaii. And in a recent General Electric survey, 46 per cent of the respondents believed nuclear plants would make their communities less safe, compared with 29 per cent who felt than way five years ago. 
Estimates of when a repository for storing nuclear waste would be ready have slipped from 1985 to 1988 and even 1995. 
That estimate was made by the Carter Administration 's waste disposal committee. It is indicative of the difficulty and the trouble the world is having in finding any real solution to the disposal of atomic waste. The article continues: 
Already California, Iowa and Wisconsin have prohibited further reactor construction until the waste issue is resolved. 
In an interview with Morris K. Udall, chairman of the US House of Representatives committee which has responsibility for overseeing the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Business Week reports this 'moderate on nuclear issues' as saying: ' I think nuclear is on the razor's edge right now. And I think probably by the end of this congress- in the next two years- you will get a pretty good reading on whether you're going to have a renewed surge of orders for nuclear plants. "You will see whether the present de facto moratorium will be converted into a de factor permanent moratorium. "We are finding in our committee that if you factor in all the true costs of nuclear, coal is now competitive. We're finding, "Well, my God, if it isn't even cheaper, why run all these risks  or  proliferation and so on?" ' 
The sense, the heart, of those remarks can be repeated for every country of the globe. The article continues: 
The second thoughts about nuclear are not confined to the US . . . It is already happening in some countries. 
The Japanese Atomic Energy Commission planned to have 100,000 MW of nuclear power installed by 1990. That figure has now been cut back to 60,000 MW. 
The same competitive edge of nuclear over alternative sources is confirmed by France . . . 
In the United Kingdom not a solitary nuclear plant has been ordered since 1 973 despite plans to install an additional 35,000 MW capacity by 1 980. 
In West Germany nuclear development is at a standstill because of local opposition to every proposed site and the availability of recourse to the courts to delay projects. 
In Sweden the Social Democrat Government lost office when its conservative Opposition embraced an anti-nuclear policy . . . 
In Austria a national referendum aimed at preventing a start-up of a $500m nuclear plant . . ., the nation's first, was successful even though the blocking proposal was fought by Prime Minister . . . as an issue of confidence. 
A national referendum is to be held in Switzerland on February 10. 
The country, which is a conservative one, is deeply divided on the problem and the referendum was only just defeated. The article continued: 
In Italy nuclear development is at a standstill. 
And even before Iran was racked by its present bout of anti-Shah riots the ambitious nuclear program had been virtually aborted. 
Nowhere in the world can this Government find a clear, strong area which wants to buy our uranium. As John Aherne, a senior aide to Energy Secretary Schlesinger, in the United States, said: 
The great nuclear power boom that was forecast 10 years ago is never going to happen. 
We certainly have time to solve a lot of the problems which are concerned with the nuclear power cycle before we need to be so anxious to dig uranium out of the ground and export it. Problems of proliferation and dealing with the wastes still exist. We have a government which said that it would not countenance the sale of uranium to any country which was not prepared to sign strong nuclear safeguard agreements with us. But so desperate is this Government to serve its masters, the mining companies, that despite all that has been said about safeguards, early in March offers were made to Japan and to Britain before bilateral nuclear safeguard agreements had been finalised. So evidently we are prepared to go to the point of agreeing to sell uranium before we even put to the countries concerned the safeguards we require. 
The Bill enables the Government to push ahead with Ranger and to sell on a falling market and so waste our money. But what care has the Government taken of the workers who are to be employed on the site? While the Government is busy using investment resources on Ranger and so starving other areas of industry which offer a much greater job potential than uranium mining, what is the position of those few workers who are employed on the site? A newspaper article of 30 May stated: 
A contingent of Nabarlek construction workers, who flew into Darwin yesterday for an arbitration hearing on conditions in the uranium province, were eager to air their complaints outside the hearing. 
They claimed they had become virtual 'prisoners ' of their employers because of the conditions ana restrictions they were being forced to endure. 
Of course, that is partly because they work under the Atomic Energy Act. The article continued: 
Many have threatened to pack up and fly back home if the outcome of the current arbitration hearing on their log of claims is not met with a favourable response. 
For many, working in the uranium province was the only alternative to retrenchment, followed by almost certain unemployment and queuing for the dole check. 
We know very well that this Government is not averse to forcing people into areas in which they do not want to work and which they find dangerous. Those people are forced into doing that by the long queue of unemployed people waiting at the gate. The article continued: 
The men complain of a bad dust problem, of an unreliable power supply and inadequate facilities for the number of people at the construction camp. 
The men are working 10 hours a day, 7 days a week and they say they have no social life . . . 
The article continued: 
Pay rates are lower than they are in the towns. 
One electrician, who is earning $5.20 an hour at Nabarlek, could earn up to $7 in a town where conditions were far better. 
The men are not permitted to leave the site compound, and must carry identification tickets with their photo attached. 
One said publicity given to the effects of uranium had stirred up an uncertainty about what the future held. 'This is not coal or sand or something like that, ' he said. 
We don't know what effect this is going to have on our health in another 20 years or so '. 
How right he is. The article stated further: 
Abour 30 per cent of the workers are men with families in other centres. 
They said the unrealistic conditions of employment has been drawn up by Queensland Mines Limited in consultation with the Northern Land Council. 
So the article went on. For those extraordinary conditions, for the extraordinarily long hours and days of work and for the sort of pay those men are getting, they are running the risk of low level radiation affecting their lives. They are running the risk of concentrations of radon and radon daughters affecting their lives. When dealing with the problems of radiation protection, there is a tendency for people in the field to forget that real people are involved and that real people die of cancer when the technical fixes which are proposed fail. There is a tendency to forget that protection measures have to be implemented by people, and people can fail. 
To protect uranium miners adequately we will need more than theoretical estimates of such things as the radon concentration in the whole open pit mine area. We have to know what concentration of radon daughters a man who is crawling around on the floor of a mine pit will be subjected to. We have to know how he will react to changing a tyre on his truck when he is supposed to be wearing a respirator. We have to know what dose in the lung he receives in his airconditioned truck cab. We have to know how many times he will make the journey up and down the side of the open cut and how he will be affected. We have to know what pressures mine management will exert on the radiation protection officer which the code demands that the mines appoint. We have to know how management will react when the radiation protection officer suggests that the mine should be closed down for some days while the radon gas is dispersed and safety returns. We have to know how mine management will react when expensive alterations to procedures are suggested in the interests of radiation protection. We do not know any of those things at this point in time. What exposures in working level months will real people working under those theoretical conditions be subjected to? 
Nabarlek is a mine which will be mined out in a very short period. Obviously it will be mined by people working long hours each day and long days each week over a short period so that the uranium can be removed from the mine very quickly and placed on the market very quickly. That means that the safety measures which were proposed will be very hard to supervise. Uranium miners all over the world have always been in greater danger than any other miners. Another newspaper article stated: 

 Dr Joseph Wagoner, special assistant for occupational carcinogenesis at the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, has been studying uranium mining since that 1 960 beginning. . . . 
We are told in the article that  Dr Wagoner  is angry at the way in which the United States of America has dealt with uranium mining and uranium miners. The article went on to state: 

 Dr Wagoner 's last formal count, in 1 974, showed 1 44 cancer deaths among the 3,500 miners. Statistically, 29.8 such deaths would be expected, leaving 114 instances of what doctors call excess deaths.  Dr Wagoner's  estimate of the toll through 1978 is about 200 deaths, 160 in excess, 'making 160 people that needlessly died due to lung cancer because we did not accept the published data that was already there for our use in the 1 950s ', he said. 
I ask whether Australia is even yet accepting the published data that was available in 1950 for men who will be working in 1 980? The article continued: 
Thirty years from now we '11 have the hidden legacy of the whole thing', he went on. 'What we refused to do 30 years ago, we are paying for today. What we refuse to do today, we will pay for in thirty years. 
The data clearly indicates the inadequacy of current standards on radiation exposure in mines', he said. 
In scientific circles I don't think any one doubts that diseases are being caused by exposure to radon daughter during mining . . . 
The United States National Academy of Science in its BEIR Report, published in May 1979, denies that there is any real threshold of radiation levels to which men can be subject. Yet the men who are working in these mines in the Northern Territory will be subject to safeguards that are based on a low radiation level of five rems. The men are subject to low level radiation from uranium and from the tailings dumps. We feel that this Government should get its priorities right. It is extraordinary that whilst it pays lip service to our need for energy and to the need for energy in other parts of the world it does not follow that up when it comes to research. It is extraordinary that while in the last Budget $12m to $15m was given over to nuclear research only $8. 5m was given to coal research, $2m to petroleum research and $3m to solar energy research. If the Government feels that resources are available we believe that those resources should go into employment in other areas until such times as the problems that are associated with the nuclear area are resolved. In the meantime we feel that there is no logic or no reason why such a large proportion of our Budget should go into nuclear research when there is obviously such a great need for research to be done in other areas for which that the world is waiting. I support the amendment moved by  Senator Tate. 
-One of the supposed objectives of the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill is to make efficient and economical use of the services of persons employed in the Commonwealth Public Service. A second objective is to effect the redeployment of those persons whose services are inconsistent with the first objective. The Bill enables a person to be redeployed if he is included in a class of employees comprising a greater number of employees than is necessary for the efficient and economical working of a department or authority. In speaking to the Bill, I want to highlight the problems that women in the Commonwealth Public Service will face if the Bill is passed. I am moved to raise the matter because this Government, in varying ways, seems to me to have already decided that women in the work force are a liability. Members of the Cabinet have already said that women caused inflation because of their insistence on equal pay and because of the equal pay decision. 
There has already been a deal of criticism of the maternity leave provision. It has been declared that women have been causing wastage through the use of this provision. Under this Bill, the Government will be able either to cut out maternity leave and therefore make it impossible for married women to have a career in the Public Service and at the same time have children or to redeploy or retire women because of their need for maternity leave or because they may need maternity leave, in much the same way as Ansett Airlines of Australia refused a woman the right to train as a pilot, even though she had all the qualifications, because she may need leave to have a baby and she may have a baby. It was evident from the time that maternity leave was introduced that heads of departments and senior public servants disapproved of it. They probably disapprove of women in the Public Service, except perhaps to make the tea. It seems to me that because of their training and age they are much more likely to show their prejudices in the areas they choose for redeployment and retirement. I wish to quote from the June 1 972 report of the Commissioner for Equal Opportunity in Victoria. The report says: 
Of the many employment practices relating to discrimination that have become apparent, two are particularly worth recording because of their frequency and wide felt repercussions. The first of these is the policy which many organisations adopt of dismissing women when they become pregnant. The second is that of dismissing women who are married in the event of staff layoff. 
I cannot see any evidence to show that those in a position to redeploy and retire workers in the Commonwealth Public Service would take any different attitude to that. When the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission ruled on maternity leave it must have given hope and incentive to a lot of women who want a career other than the career of being a wife, homemaker and mother. Some of them want a career in the Public Service. The provision of maternity leave allowed them to marry, to have babies and to carry on their career- to take time off for the production ofthe next generation of workers and not be sent back to square one when they wanted to take up their careers again. It seems to me that the provisions of this Bill will stop that sort of thing happening. They will be found to be excess workers in many areas. The Government's whole attitude to women and women workers is a worry. Already there have been statements by Ministers, including Cabinet members, to the effect that women have taken over jobs that men and young people should have. For example, an article in the  Australian  of March this year states: 
The Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs,  Mr Viner,  gave the National Economic forum a detailed description of the effect women have had on Australia's workforce since the early '60s. 
Between 1964 and the late '70s, while the number of men working rose by 25 per cent, the number of women in the workforce increased by about 70 percent. 
The percentage of women in the workforce rose from 23 per cent in 1 964 to 36 per cent in recent years. 

 Mr Viner said the increased number of married women working must have 'weakened the imperative for the traditional bread winner to remain in, or take to employment'. 
In a broadcast on a radio station in Melbourne this year,  Mr Eric  Robinson was quoted as suggesting that married women were responsible for much unemployment among males. When asked a question about that in the House of Representatives,  Mr Robinson  said: 
The report in the newspaper of what I was supposed to have said was utterly inaccurate. I did not say what is reported. I did say that there were now in the work force many more women than there had been some years ago and that the structure of the work force had changed completely. I went on to say that some jobs which normally would have been available to males were now occupied by women in the work force. 
Of course,  Mr Hunt  hit really dizzying heights in the debate on abortion when he claimed that women having abortions were causing unemployment because they were reducing the number of consumers we produce, thus depressing the manufacturing industry. I think it is indicative of the approach that this Government, particularly, its Ministers, is taking to women in the work force. It is indicative of how they will use this Bill once it is passed through the Parliament. The 1 978 report of the Equal Opportunity Board in Victoria listed some of the comments and reactions to equal opportunity legislation and to the idea of equal opportunity. The Board listed the following as some of the reactions that it received: 
We can evade the Act because you can't prove we have favoured males or females in selection for employment'; What are you going to do about it if the employee (or employer) organisations resist the employment provisions of the Act?'; 'Married men deserve preference because they are the breadwinner'; 'Deserted wives deserve preference over single people or young people'; 'People will lose their jobs by victimisation, so cannot be expected to lodge a complaint'; 'You are telling women to work and this causes marriage breakdown'; 'Training costs so much, men should get preference because women leave the workforce to get married'; 'We can't promote women because they are not dedicated like men'; 'Men are not as sensitive as women. Women add a human face to business'. 
All of those remarks can be developed into areas that would give women in the Public Service cause for great alarm as to where their futures lie. I cannot really believe that heads of departments in the Commonwealth Public Service are very different from the people who made some of those remarks. I can see heads of departments saying: 'It cannot be proved that we favoured males or females in the selection we made of the people who should be retired or deployed '. I can see people giving married men preference, and I can see the situation arising where deserted wives have preference over single women. As a result of this Bill one can certainly see arising the problem of people losing their jobs by victimisation. Such people will be unable or unwilling to lodge complaints because they feel that their complaints will only result in further victimisation. 
In some areas this Government has not shown any sense of fair play or understanding of the concept of equal opportunity. I refer to the Defence services. A complaint was made recently in South Australia about bias in the Air Force. When it was suggested to a spokesman in the Air Force that a complaint should be made because of job advertisements which had been placed in newspapers he replied that the advertisements said that no female vacancies were available. To my way of thinking this proves that they have no idea of what we mean by sex bias or equal opportunity. As the Government has not made its position very clear it is not to be wondered that the Air Force also has not been able to make its position clear or to understand what the position is. 
The Bill expressly allows for the retrenchment of qualified, efficient, permanent officers in a class of employees in the Department or by the authority which comprises a greater number of employees than is necessary for the efficient and economical working of the Department or the authority. With the increased use of up to date technology in the white collar area of employment it has become increasingly obvious to most people that female employees will be in the greatest danger of being retrenched. Perhaps a bolder word to use is 'sacked '. 
Last month's unemployment figures showed the unemployment rate to be 5.2 per cent for the male work force and 9.4 per cent for the female work force. The unemployment rates for adolescents were 15.7 per cent for males and 23.5 per cent for females. The higher rate of unemployment for females directly relates to their concentration in but a few occupations. Almost twothirds of all unemployed women are in clerical service or in sales occupations. The Federal Government, in introducing $30m worth of word processors in the next three years, will eliminate employment for about 10,000 female typists. The Government has put forward no job creating plans to replace these jobs and thus to give these women jobs in the work force. 
No retraining plans have been put forward by this Government at all. If a decision is made to retrench excess personnel in certain areas, under the provisions of this Bill it will mean that an increasing number of women will be put on to the unemployment list. It seems to me that redeploying married women in the Public Service can cause insurmountable problems for their families and for them in relation to their personal relationships. How can a woman be redeployed to another State or city and be expected to leave her husband or her children in the State or city in which she is employed at the moment? She must decide whether to keep her job and to move to another area- thus breaking up her family and perhaps her relationship with her husband- or whether the husband has to give up his job and find another job in the area to which his wife has been redeployed. These are problems which people will find very difficult to solve. If they refuse to accept redeployment they will go on the unemployment list. 
It seems to me that all these chickens will come home to roost with this Government: There will be an increase in the use of the social welfare system; an increase in the incidence of breakdown in the health of people employed in the work force, and an increase in health costs because of these breakdowns. Perhaps the worst feature of this Bill is the fact that if a person is declared 'in excess' his only appeal provision is to name a workmate as an alternative person to be sacked. It is in relation to that aspect that women are in an extraordinarily vulnerable situation. If a male in a particular area of the work force is named to be redeployed or retrenched, who is most at risk? I suggest that the females in those areas are most at risk when a man is declared 'in excess'. I do not altogether blame the males. People are put in an invidious position. 
I give the example of a man who has a wife and children to keep and who is declared 'in excess' and therefore is to be redeployed or, at worst, retrenched; and of a woman in the same department whose husband has a good job. What else is the man to do but to declare that that woman is the alternative person to be sacked? If a man working in a department is declared 'in excess' and there is a woman in the same department who has a husband who might not be in much of a job, or who might not have a job at all, he may decide that she has somebody who can look after her and so declare that she is the alternative person to be sacked. It may be the case that a woman is working in a department. A male who has a wife and children to keep at home and who is desperate to keep his job may declare that woman as the alternative person to be sacked. 
Taking into account the prejudices that people have in those areas and the fact that a man's wages have to keep a wife, children and himself, I think that sort of proposition would be accepted by those who have to make the decision. While that decision is being made there is no way for them to know what responsibilities the woman has, what her domestic situation is, what the joint responsibilities of the married couple are, or how the woman will live or want to live. She will be seen as the fall guy in the situation. 
I think it is invidious and vicious to turn people on each other in that way. It is irresponsible to increase the rate of unemployment in this way. It is irresponsible and shortsighted not to promote a proper system of retraining when there are excess numbers of personnel in various areas of the Public Service. If we are to go ahead with the technological changes that this Government envisages we most certainly will have excess staff in certain areas. With no proper retraining these people will be thrown on the scrap heap. I can see women in the Public Service taking the brunt of the provisions of this Bill. It could wipe out women as employees of the Commonwealth Public Service. For those reasons, I condemn the Bill. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. On 8 May this year I asked the Minister questions relating to radiation limits at the Nabarlek mine. I have not yet received an answer to those questions. As these matters must be in the forefront of the Government's collective mind, can the Minister now inform me whether or not the Government intends to amend the code of practice to accommodate Queensland Mines Ltd? Is the Supervising Scientist to be given any special instructions on the matter? Will the mine be closed if the level of radiation exceeds the set limit? Will Queensland Mines be requested to check constantly the health of miners? Will Queensland Mines be responsible for any loss of wages arising from such closure of the mine? 
1 rise to speak about the Government's attitude to migration. After listening to  Senator MacGibbon  I must say that it might be as well if we all migrated to New Caledonia, leaving this country to be used as one big quarry by every other country! I query the genuineness of this Government's attitude to migration. I refer to the extraordinary difference in attitudes towards people from different countries and the basis for this discrimination. The Government insists that we need more workers to immigrate to Australia. Despite the downturn in our economy, despite the highest unemployment this country has ever known, this Government is using taxpayers' money to advertise in Europe for workers in certain areas of expertise- amongst them, hairdressers. There must be hundreds and hundreds of women in the community who are trained hairdressers because that was the only area in which women could get any sort of apprenticeship. The Government is saying that the old 
White Australia policy is long dead, that our immigration policy today is totally nondiscriminatory and is applied consistently to all applicants regardless of race, colour, nationality, descent, national or ethnic origin and sex. I query these statements. I feel that they are hypocritical, taking into account the attitude the Government is taking to certain races and nationalities in the world. 
The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs,  Mr MacKellar,  says that Australia wants to protect the social and economic future of all its citizens and that therefore it has to limit the number of migrants it accepts each year and give preference to those with close family ties, and with skills, professional qualifications or experience that are in strong demand. I maintain that this Government picks and chooses between the races and countries from which it chooses those migrants. I would like to know what the real criterion is. I do not believe that it is based on need, I believe that it is based on prejudice, and on the prejudice of big business. Certainly  Mr MacKellar  has said that we now have migrants from more than 100 countries, but I would like to know what the proportions are because, from my observation, they are far from equal. He has gloated about the fact that we now take a large number of migrants from Asia and says that this represents 22 per cent of the total migrant intake. We resettle large numbers of Indo-Chinese refugees. Of the migrants who come to live in Australia, 13 per cent are from Asia, and amongst them are a substantial number of professional and technical workers.  Mr MacKellar  also says that in recent years numbers of Japanese migrants have come to Australia. The Government has even spent part of the taxpayers' money on a special program of films to encourage more Japanese workers to settle in Australia. Of course, that might have something to do with the fact that the Japanese have a reputation for being good workers who accept all sorts of conditions and their place in society. 
The Government is not making quite such a large splash about the fact that during the last financial year South Africa was the third largest source of migrants for Australia. The second largest source was Great Britain and if the refugee component is included, the third was Malaysia. The Government does not advertise to any large degree the fact that the largest migrant source, excluding refugees, was South Africa. So great is the number of migrants now coming from South Africa that Australia has increased its immigration staff in Pretoria to cope with the increased numbers of applications from people in Rhodesia who wish to settle in Australia. An article appearing in the  Johannesburg Star  on 30 January this year stated: 
. that Australia was considering a plan to accept up to 10,000 Rhodesian refugees if the transitional Government collapsed. 
The United States is another area from which the Government is encouraging emigration to Australia. Recently the Federal Government allowed 1 8 American families to enter Australia to establish a multimillion dollar jewellery manufacturing business in Perth, but the decision may have been coloured by the fact that a significant investment was involved. Of course, these days we take migrants from all areas, including areas to which this Government would never before have looked for migrants. We show a great deal of compassion for young ladies in red bikinis who jump off Russian cruise vessels. We show great compassion for the daughter of an elderly German couple who was in Australia with her son and wished to stay here with her parents, despite the fact that she could not speak English. Of course, she should have been allowed to stay, and of course governments should show proper compassion in such cases. But what about the young Greek couple who were here with their seven-week old Australian-born baby and who were deported, even though a very large section of the community asked the Government to change its mind? What about the Fijian parents who were deported, despite the fact that they too had an Australian-born child? No compassion was shown to them and they were sent back to Fiji. 
In the last few weeks we have heard of the case of a young man who jumped ship in Australia when he was 1 8 years old in order to settle with his mother and sister, who were his only relations. He lived here very happily, found a job and worked very hard. He thought that if he put his case honestly before the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs some sympathy would be shown. He thought honesty was the best policy. This young man went to the Department and told his story, and he was not allowed to return home. The Department was told that if he were sent back to Greece he would have to face the consequences of having jumped ship. His 19-year-old fiancee lost her job because the Commonwealth Police visited her at her office almost every day to ask her for further facts. His brother-in-law fears that because he was of military age, he may be court-martialled for desertion and his length of service may be increased from between 18 and 27 months to at least three years. His brother-in-law wanted to put up half the bail so that the family could spend Greek Easter together before he was deported, if he were to be deported. 
Despite all endeavours to stay, this man- he is still only a young man of 22 years of age who has committed no crime other than wanting to be with his mother and sister when he was 1 8 years of age- was deported back to Greece. I think his fate had a great deal to do with the fact that he was a Greek. Had he been of some other nationality, such as British or South African, maybe he would not have been sent back. 
The fiancee of a South American migrant who has been detained awaiting deportation alleged that he was being removed from Australia to avoid any investigations into a racket defrauding migrants, but no attempt was made by this Government to look into that matter. Migrants in Melbourne and Sydney have made allegations of bribes up to $1,500 being paid to people who pose as immigration officers expecting that people who are making desperate, last minute attempts to stay in Australia will pay any money to do so. No investigation has been made of those allegations. Despite the fact that a woman who recently went back to the United Kingdom with her five children because she said she could not stand Australia has been backwards and forwards two or three times, it is interesting to note that authorities in Britain said that Australia House was very helpful in arranging for her and her family to be repatriated back to Australia when they had gone home to England before and then had wanted to return to Australia. The same compassion does not seem to be shown for people from other areas, especially people of Greek origin. A Greek-born member of the New South Wales Legislative Council recently said: 
I know of instances where Australian citizens of Greek descent who have married in Greece have serious difficulties to bring their wives back here. 
We know very well that files on Greeks had been checked by the fraud squad of the Department of Social Security, although there is not much information to show that files on people of other nationalities have been checked. It is interesting to note that the Federal Government is to review the type and number of doctors migrating to Australia because there are too many in some fields and not enough in others. However, not much effort is made to see to it that we attract doctors from multi-cultural backgrounds who may be able to assist the migrant families in Australia. The doctors do not come into Australia in proportion to the areas from which Australia brings migrants. This is causing a great deal of concern and hardship to migrant people, who find it hard to relate to doctors who do not speak their languages and who do not know their background. 
There is a great deal of talk in the community about many doctors migrating to Australia coming from South Africa and Rhodesia. A report tabled by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  showed that by 1981 Australia would have one doctor to 543 people. It was found that the net inflow of long term immigrants and settler doctors was higher than anticipated- about 600 a year. The report says that the two most common reasons given for the high gains from immigration are that practice in Australia was more lucrative than in many other countries and that the more restrictive conditions for migration of doctors to other countries made migration to Australia comparatively attractive. This makes one wonder whose fault it is that health costs are rising so rapidly. 
All the figures on where Australia's migrants have come from over the last few years show an extraordinary pattern. South Africans, Britons, Americans and Northern Europeans are being granted visas with little difficulty. However, Southern Europeans- especially Greeks and people from the Middle East- and South Americans have far less chance of getting a visa to come to Australia to see friends and relatives or simply to tour the country. All these figures were given by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. The breakdown of the numbers of visas issued and the number of applications refused in the 12 months ended February this year is as follows: Whilst 2,634 Greeks were given visas, 825 were refused. That is a ratio of almost one in three. Whilst 1 85 visas were issued to Turkish nationals, 124 were refused. People from Lebanon were even worse off. The number of applications refused was higher than the number approved. There were 275 visas granted and 291 rejected. 
However, there is a stark difference when these figures are compared to those of South Africa, Northern Europe, Britain, the United States and Canada. Whilst 5,715 South Africans were allowed into Australia only 225 applications were refused, or one refusal for every 30 approved. About 50,000 Americans were granted visas and only 189 were refused. More than 5,600 British applications were approved and 450 were rejected. Not one application from Austria was rejected and 1,459 visas were granted. Precisely 18 applications from Sweden and Norway were refused whilst 2,170 were approved. I suppose after knowing this, I should not have been surprised to receive the following letter from the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs: 
Dear  Senator Melzer, 
I refer to your further letter concerning the visitor entry to Australia from Greece of  Mr Alexander  Grekos  who is seeking to visit his sister,  Mrs  Alkisti Yallouridis  of 10 Harrow Street, Blackburn, 
I reject utterly your accusation that Greek people are singled out by my Department for discriminatory treatment. It is correct that visit applications lodged in Greece and in certain other countries too are subjected to a closer scrutiny than applies elsewhere. This has resulted from the fact that so many attempts have been made to abuse the visitor policy and I have been compelled to instruct officers overseas to look more closely at the bona fides particularly of people of nationalities which have shown up in our records as being among those most consistently flouting entry requirements. I am sorry to say that Greeks are included in this category. 
In assessing  Mr Grekos  intended other than a genuine visit the officer who interviewed him in Athens took into account factors such as an awareness by  Mr Grekos  that he would not be eligible for migrant entry, his below average income, no property ties in Greece, no previous travel and seeking a stay of six months.  Mr  Grekos's  background fitted what might be termed a profile of visitors from Greece most likely to become over stayed visitors in Australia. The doubts held by the interviewing officer in Athens were not alleviated by a report from the Regional Director of my Department in Melbourne, which indicated that after a telephone conversation with  Mr Grekos's  brother-in-law,  Mr Yallouridis,  they also had doubts that a genuine visit was intended. 
I have again reviewed this case but I am satisfied the decision to refuse  Mr Grekos  a visit visa was reasonably based on policy and there was no discrimination based on race or nationality. I have decided to maintain that decision. . . . 
This is a young man in his early twenties whose sister had married an Australian, had come out to live in Australia and had just had her first baby. Her father, this young man's father, came out to Australia to visit his daughter and his new grandchild. This young man wished to come out to visit his sister and his new nephew. His relatives out here were perfectly prepared to put up bonds, to make sure that a ticket was bought that showed he was going to return. The Minister said that he had below average income. How many of our young people going overseas to visit would have a greater than average income? The letter says that he has no property ties in Greece. He is of an age when one could not expect him to have property ties in Greece. He had made no previous travel and he sought a stay of six months. A young man with no property ties and below average income is not going to be able to visit his sister very often. So one would expect that he would stay for the maximum time he could. 
I spoke to this young man's relatives and they were most anxious that he should be out here in time to have the baby christened. The Minister says he is not discriminating against Greeks who most consistently flout entry requirements; I say to him that the Greeks are not the worst flouters of entry requirements. 
A report in the  Sunday Mail  stated that British people top the list of illegal migrants in Australia. A total of 58,883 illegal immigrants is now at large in Australia. The British top the 'wanted list' followed by the Americans and the Malaysians. The report stated that the others are Indonesians, Fijians, Italians, West Germans, Hong Kong Chinese, Greeks, Dutch and Singaporeans, in a descending order of numbers. The Greeks are nowhere near the top of the list of those who make up the greatest number of illegal immigrants. The greatest number of illegal immigrants come from Britain and America. If the Government continues in this vein it will mean that people in Australia who are of Greek origin will be able to have no visitors from their home country. There will be no family reunions. The only way that these people will be able to have reunions with their families is by going home to Greece. If they do not they will lose contact with their families and the areas from which they came. 
I refer to another case involving 13 Greek teachers who came to Australia under a temporary teaching scheme in 1977. Of those 13 teachers five later applied for permanent residency. One of them was English and was travelling on a British passport. Honourable senators would not be surprised to know that he was granted permanent residence. The applications of the other four, who had Greek passports and Greek citizenship, were rejected. They all came to Australia on the same basis but the applications of the four who had Greek passports were rejected. The application of the one who travelled on a British passport was accepted. I say to the Government that all immigrants are human beings. They all love their mothers, grandfathers and children. They sometimes have wider and deeper family feelings than we have. People in the community are concerned at this sort of discrimination. People from the Greek community are certainly concerned. The Government has castigated other countries about the treatment of their nationals and their treatment of refugees. It has called on them to show greater compassion, to take a greater proportion of refugees and to allow more families to be reunited. I come from the second largest Greek speaking city in the world. I think it is time that this Government showed its bona fides, recognised the tremendous qualities that these people bring to Australia and treated them like human beings. 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 3 April 1979: 
1 ) Has the Minister read a report by United States authorities on the use of the herbicide 2,4,5,T in Oregon. 
Is the Government concerned that, despite the actions of authorities in the United States, the National Health and Medical Research Council in Australia has advised the Government that there is insufficient evidence to warrant withdrawal of 2,4,5,T even if only as a precaution, until Australian authorities can carry out their own research. 
Is the Government concerned that, while in the United States precautions have been taken since 1970 to prevent pregnant women, and women of child-bearing age, making contact with this material, in Australia pregnant housewives can purchase the herbicides from supermarket shelves, with no warning of the physical damage which can result from excessive use of the chemical involved. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on  4  April 1 979: 
1 ) Does the Government intend to continue to differentiate between (a) safeguards directed towards preventing the improper use of fissionable materials and their diversion into weapon manufacture and (b) safety as it relates to the safe operation of all elements of the nuclear industry, in view of: (i) the continuing and far-reaching dilemma nuclear engineers are faced with in Pennsylvania; (ii) the latest report that there is a nuclear reactor in South Korea which is approaching a similar critical state; (iii) the fact that five nuclear reactors were closed in South America because they were built in an earthquake area; (iv) the fact that a reactor is planned for an earthquake area in the Philippines; (v) the fact that a Swedish reactor has released considerable amounts of radioactivity into the atmosphere; and (vi) the possibility that an Italian reactor may be closing because of various significant amounts of radioactivity which are being released into the River Po. 
Will the Government in the future insist upon guarantees of safety in relation to environmental control and operations of reactors, as well as the other safeguards mentioned in ( 1 ) above, before overseas contracts are approved. 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment the following question, upon notice, on 9 May 1979. 
1 ) Will radon gas decay products build up very rapidly in the small Nabarlek pit, following the opening of the Nabarlek Mine in Arnhem Land by Queensland Mines. 
Does the Government intend to amend the Code of Practice on Radiation Protection in Mining and Milling of Radioactive Ores. 
Is the Supervising Scientist to be given any special instructions on the matter. 
Will the mine be closed if the level exceeds the set limit of radiation. 
Will Queensland Mines be required to check constantly the health of miners. 
Will Queensland mines be responsible for any loss of wages arising from any closure of the Nabarlek Mine. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
1 ) Have recent reports suggested that the new points system for selecting immigrants is designed to favour applicants from Rhodesia, South Africa and the British Isles over immigrants from countries such as Greece, Turkey and Lebanon. 
Has a further report indicated that since the points scheme was introduced over 200 South African immigrants have been accepted while one Greek immigrant has been admitted. 
How many immigrants have been admitted to Australia from: (a) South Africa; (b) Rhodesia; (c) the British Isles; (d) Turkey; (e) Greece; and (f) Lebanon, in each month since the points system was introduced. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 4 June 1 979: 
What is the continuing cost of the refit that will be necessary each time the two Boeing 707 aircraft recently purchased by the Government are converted from Defence to VIP use. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969,I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Relocation of the Royal Australian Navy Research Laboratory (RANRL) from Rushcutters Bay to the Royal Edward Victualling Yard premises at Pyrmont, New South Wales. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. On 31 May last, as a result of a statement by the Prime Minister that the two Boeing 707 aircraft bought by the Government for his use when travelling overseas would be used by the defence forces when not being used for this special purpose, I asked for the continuing cost of the necessary refit. I recently received a reply which stated that there would be no continuing costs for the material for the conversion and that the changeover would be carried out by Royal Australian Air Force personnel at Richmond provided for this purpose of maintenance support for the B707 aircraft and that, therefore, there would be no additional cost. 
Therefore, I ask the Minister what the actual cost of the refit would be and whether he would advise of the numbers of RAAF personnel specifically engaged in this work and their rank and what specific equipment had to be purchased to carry out this work. Will the salaries, allowances and other expenses of the personnel be paid by the Department of Defence or by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet? On the recent trip to Africa were the costs of crew and maintenance en route covered by the Prime Minister's Department or by the Defence Department? Is it usual to have the costs of a Prime Minister's use of RAAF aircraft and personnel covered in the Defence vote or is there a separate vote to cover these matters? 
I present the following petition from 1 87 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia residing in the Electorate of Wannon respectfully showeth: 
Your petitioners pray: 
That the Government adhere to its commitment to take politics out of pension increases by giving automatic increases in line with price rises twice a year. 
That the Government immediately grant free medical, hospital and pharmaceutical benefits to any person receiving a portion of the aged pension. 
That the Government take steps to grant free medical, hospital and pharmaceutical benefits to all female citizens on reaching age sixty and all male citizens on reaching age sixty-five years. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, concerns the standards required by the Australian Government before citizenship is granted. This week my office has received six complaints from people, some of whom received letters advising that they did not have an adequate knowledge of the responsibility and privileges of Australian citizenship and some of whom were told at the first interview that they were refused because their English was not fluent enough. Will the Minister advise the Senate of the guidelines and standards required before Australian citizenship is granted? 
I consider the speech we have just heard from  Senator Guilfoyle  to be a most extraordinary speech for a Minister of her calibre. I would have thought that in the week during which the Budget was brought down we would have heard Ministers and members of this Government telling us positively and enthusiastically just what this Budget was going to do for the great mass of people in Australia. She did not tell us, of course, what this Budget was going to do positively for the great mass of people in Australia because it will not do anything positive for the great mass of people in Australia. It is just going to drag them down further into poverty. We heard a Minister of the calibre of  Senator Guilfoyle  reduced to the old catch cry about its all being the fault of the Whitlam Government, forgetting very conveniently the number of Budgets which have now been brought down by this Government and the number of chances it has had to bring this country up to something worth while. 
In 1979 in Australia it does not do to be old, to be sick, to be unemployed, to be a school-leaver or to be a family man with young children. If one falls into one of those categories one is part of the plan of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  who stated in the Budget Speech: 
Overall business profits improved last year. This process must continue if recovery is to be consolidated. 
Business profits improved at any price! Presumably business profits can be improved while thousands and thousands of Australians are on the breadline and while thousands and thousands of young Australians find that there is no place in society for them. Evidently we are supposed to be grateful for the ridiculous little bits of padding here and there which have come out of this Budget. Whilst more and more people are pushed into poverty we are supposed to be grateful for the ridiculous little handouts to people. What we and the people of Australia want is more employment, fewer handouts and more dignity. In 1979 in this country who wants to be the object of somebody's charity? After having gone through school and passed examinations, who in 1979 wants to find that there is no place in this country for them and that whatever they have to contribute is not wanted? 
The old and the aged in this country at least achieved indexation of pensions in this Budget. But that will not come into force until May of next year, whilst pharmaceutical benefit increases come into force from next Saturday. If the Government is so concerned about assisting people in this country one wonders why the situation could not have been reversed. Millions of dollars have been saved by cutting back those pensions that the aged should have got. If the pensioners had got the rise to which they were entitled in May 1978 they would each have $60 more. Over that period meat prices rose by 400 per cent, rents increased, transport charges rose, doctors' fees rose and the cost of health schemes rose. But pensioners were kept on an amount of money that was not able to cope with their needs in 1 979, let alone at this time of the year. 
I say again that what the aged and the pensioners of this country want is more dignity. They want to be able to buy what they need and to pay their bills; they do not want various schemes handed out to them or various bits of charity dolloped out to them when those in authority think fit. While pensioner health benefit schemes go up, the pensioner health benefit card is made available to a few more- a little more charity is handed out. While the petrol tax pushes up the price of every conceivable item that a pensioner might buy they are handed bits of charity and told that they should be grateful for it. 
The sick in this community are in a very bad way. Under this Government and through this Budget they have to put up with increased doctors' fees and the Government has made no move to assist in paying those doctors' fees or to keep them down. They have to put up with increased hospital charges and yet we still have not got hospitals distributed equitably throughout the community. In areas of Melbourne people have to go for miles before they can find a hospital to care for their problems. People who have been caught in accidents have to go miles and miles because there are no hospitals. We are told that we have many hospital beds in excess of requirements, but we do not have hospital beds where we need them; and when we find them we have to pay more for them. 
The increase in pharmaceutical benefits has got to the absurd point. I have listened to young people, who did not know who I was, talking about paying $51 a month for health benefit schemes- for things that they will never need. They will never be so ill that they will need to spend that sort of money, but because of the scare tactics put out by the health benefit associations, assisted by this Government with its propaganda, people are paying out extraordinary amounts of money that they cannot afford. What we wanted in this country was a system that would make sure that when people are ill they are not punished, that when they are ill they are made well whether or not they have the money to pay for a bed in a hospital. If we are going to move away from that, if this Government no longer believes that everybody is entitled to care when they are ill, it should come out and say so to the people of Australia and then the people of Australia can judge. If it believes that health care is an area in which it is quite justifiable to make a profit, it should say so and give the people of Australia the chance to choose. 
When it was shown that there would have to be rises in health benefit payments I noticed that Derek Shaw, President of the Health Benefits Association Ltd in Victoria, issued a warning about the rises that this would entail and the risks that this would involve people in. He said: 
The Government has broken an undertaking we had reached with the Minister for Health that we were to make necessary rate change adjustments just once a year. 
The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  broke a promise to the HBA and to the health benefit funds. He broke a promise he made to the people of Australia when he was elected in 1975 because he said then that the Government would not disrupt Medibank- that Medibank would stay whole. So much destruction has been wrought on Medibank that now in Australia we have no health scheme worth talking about. All that people know is that they have to pay out enormous amounts of money and they are not sure where the care comes from or what calibre it is. If in this country at the moment one is unemployed, married and has a family one has to keep that family on less than $ 100 a week. At the same time the cost of health care has risen enormously. People with young families need health care because of the things that can happen to kiddies. If someone is unemployed, married and has a young family he is facing an enormous increase in doctors' fees which he cannot afford. He is facing enormous increases in hospital charges which he cannot afford. He is facing increases in the prices of foodstuffs which go up every day. The petrol tax imposed by this Government increases transport charges and raises the cost of every item that people have to buy in their day-to-day living. Those increases in transport costs come directly from this Government's greedy grabbing of an increase in taxation that every member of the Australian population pays every time he fronts up to a bowser. 
An unemployed person without dependants in this country is stuck on an amount of $57.90 a week. No adjustment is being made for cost of living increases; no adjustment is being made for the petrol tax which still has to be paid. Something like 78 per cent of the unemployed people in this country are without dependants. They are told by this Government that they must go out and find jobs. To do  so they  have to spend money on transport, telephone calls and newspapers. They have to buy clothes so that they look decent and clean when they front up for a job. They are expected to do all of that on $57.90 a week. That is not possible with the sorts of costs which people have to meet today- the sort of costs which come about because of the policies of this Government and which are increasing day by day. 
People are being jammed into a situation in which they do not have the money to go out and find themselves jobs, yet they are told by this Government that they are dole bludgers if they do not do so. They are told that they are paid too much dole money, that there are people who can exist on less than the dole that they are paid. The Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Mr Phillip  Lynch, has been reported as saying that some people could survive on a lower unemployment benefit. I will bet  Mr Lynch  has never tried to survive on unemployment benefit.  Mr Lynch  said that the unemployment benefit could be too high and could be encouraging people to live off the dole. He has to be kidding. The people living on that sort of money are almost living in a state of starvation. They are in extreme desperation bringing up families on that sort of money.  Mr Lynch  said that people are encouraged to go on the dole because they will receive magnificent amounts of money. He underestimates people. He does not pay them their due. People are honest and hard working. They wish to contribute, to be a part of the community. They do not want to have charity handed out to them. They want to keep their families in their own way. They want this Government to provide them with jobs so that they can do that. 
Let us now consider the position of the unemployed people aged under 1 8 years. Let us look at the rate they are paid. They are paid $36 a week. It has been at that figure since 1975. It has lost 60 per cent of its value since that time and no move has been made to increase it. Yet these people make up the heart of what this Government is pleased to call 'the dole bludgers'. One wonders how these young people manage to keep themselves going at all on $36 a week. It costs money to go out every day to find a job. Fares could take up $10 of the weekly amount. They have to buy newspapers to find out where the jobs are and pay for telephone calls. They have to buy clothes so that they can look clean and respectable when they go for interviews for jobs. After all those things are taken into account, how much of the $36 a week would be left for board and lodgings? Is it any wonder that mothers and fathers are in despair as to what is to become of their children under those circumstances? 
If it is difficult for children in the city to manage on that sort of money, imagine what it is like for children in country towns who have to go to the city for jobs. How in the name of fortune are they supposed to keep themselves on that sort of money? Yet there must be hundreds and hundreds of children across this country who do have to go to the city to find jobs. I have before me a report prepared by  Dr Don  Edgar, Reader in Sociology at the La Trobe University and  Chairman  of the Planning Committee for the Victorian Country Education Project, and it has some figures on the unemployment levels for country towns. When we look at the situation concerning vacancies for juniors in country towns we find startling ratios of unemployed people to vacancies. In Cessnock, New South Wales, there are 409 unemployed people for each vacancy; in Maitland, 238 people for each vacancy; in Taree, 193 people for each vacancy; in Albury, 80 people for each vacancy. Some Victorian figures are: In Geelong, 120 people for each vacancy; in Mildura, 120 people for each vacancy; and in Swan Hill, 82 people for each vacancy. Those figures give an indication of the number of young people- juniors- in country districts who cannot get jobs. 
-Malcolm Fraser says that they are dole bludgers.  Mr Lynch  says that they would rather live on that amount of money than try to get a job. On $36 a week those people have to come to the city, find themselves board and lodging and get around the city to find a job. In January 1979 the young unemployed people in New South Wales numbered 34,420, 41.3 per cent of the rural jobless. In Victoria they numbered 19,015, which was 52.1 per cent of the rural jobless. That presents for rural towns a massive social problem which has gone unheralded by either the Government or the media. Evidently this Government does not care because not one thing in this Budget will be of any assistance to those youngsters in country towns; nor will anything in this Budget do anything about the problem of jobs or education in country towns. As Don Edgar stated in his report: 
Caught somewhere in the middle are the nation's forgotten children- those in rural schools. They, their parents and the wider rural communities demand a new look at how well served are their education needs. 
Their education needs are for something which will give them some sort of chance of finding jobs in the city, of standing up to the culture that they have to move into in the city. Don Edgar said of the system: 
. it even fails to allow room for teaching about those aspects of city culture that might be relevant to rural school leavers who must seek city jobs. Transport, budgeting, job seeking, using newspapers, infiltrating a bureaucracy (State or private), finding accommodation, using support services are all matters of know-how that assist the transition from school to work, yet subject-oriented timetables refuse them any coverage time. 
This Government has shown not the slightest concern for the problem that those people are faced with. They are doomed to no work in the country and to no work and no money in the city. Indeed, one wonders what happens to them when they do come to the city on that extraordinarily small amount of money. As I have said, no support is given in this Budget for the idea of real work for people in the country. No care is shown for the real problems that exist in the country. No response is made to the call for country children to be able to stay in their districts to live out their lives there and to contribute there in a very real way. This Government is responding to the call that has gone out about the closing of expensive half-full country schools but is showing no care for the very real problems that exist there. Yet the cost of country schooling will rise as a result of the petrol tax because it will mean that the cost of buses to take the country children to school, the cost of the petrol which parents use to drive them to school, will be much increased. 
We have a great problem with unemployment. We have a government which is taking something like $2,000m in petrol tax, yet it does nothing about training, re-training and providing work opportunities. This Budget cuts $50m from the National Education and Training program. It is the only program which exists to assist support to the semi-skilled and the unskilled in finding work in the community. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  pointed out that we have a great number of unskilled people in the community who find it difficult to get work. If the Government acknowledges that, one would think that at least it would take steps to do something about giving skills to those unskilled people. Yet $50m is being cut from the only scheme we have which might do that. 
We have a scheme called the Special Youth Employment Training Program. This Budget has cut the funding for that scheme by 67 per cent. That scheme subsidises employers to employ people who have been out of the work force for four months. Some employers have abused the scheme. Why do we not deal with the abusers instead of condemning the people who need that scheme to get themselves some work experience and the opportunity to get back into the work force and gain self-respect? That is the only scheme we have which deals with people in that sort of area, yet its funding has been cut by 67 per cent by this Budget. That shows just how much the Government cares about the unemployed, and adds to the growing feeling in Australia that this Government does not really care what level unemployment reaches. It believes that unemployment will solve a lot of its problems. With a large pool of unemployed there will be no problems with the work force and no pressure to give people anything like a real wage for the work they do. 
Some $2,000m will be raised through the petrol tax, but there is no money for training, no money for retraining, no money for employment programs. Where are the plans this Government might have for producing skilled tradesmen? Where are its plans for maintaining our expertise, our ability to produce all sorts of goods in this country. Does the Government acknowledge that we no longer produce such things as spark plugs and ball bearings and that we are in danger of losing the expertise we need to produce those sorts of goods? There is no acknowledgement at all of that. As far as the Government is concerned, we can become a farm, a mine, and a load of peasants. At the moment, a person with a young family finds that costs are rising, unemployment is growing and wages are going down. 
I come now to the family allowances.  Senator Guilfoyle  spoke glowingly about family allowances, which were going to give women freedom. Family allowances have not been increased since 1 976. The Government took away child endowment and cut out tax rebates for children. It replaced them with family allowances, which have not been increased since 1976. Although operating on 1979 prices, families have been left with the level of assistance that was deemed reasonable in 1976. So much for this Government's care for the family. That care was further indicated this week when the Government announced that it would make available $2,000 for research into the cot death syndrome. I cannot help but contrast that with the $3. 5m made available to Project Australia, a project which the Government fondly hopes will raise its standing in the eyes of the community. But when the people of Australia see where the money is going- $3. 5m to Project Australia and $2,000 to research into the cot death syndrome- I am sure that they will understand only too well where the priorities lie. 
In the Year of the Child this Government has not seen fit to increase the $10 allowance paid to parents of handicapped children. It has not seen fit to raise the isolated children's allowance to anything like a realistic amount of money. In the Year of the Child the children's allowance paid to pensioners has not been increased. 
The majority of people in Australia know that there is plenty of wealth in this country. The problem is not that we are not a wealthy country; it is that the wealth that exists in this country is distributed unevenly, away from the bulk of the people, and this Budget perpetuates that uneven distribution. I shall quote to the Senate some interesting figures which show the distribution of incomes among families in this country. Some 10 per cent of the lower income people receive 2.2 per cent of total income; the top 10 per cent of income earners receive 23 per cent of total income. 
The wealth of the country is owned in this way: The bottom 10 per cent of our population owns 0.27 per cent of the wealth of the country; the top 10 per cent of our population owns 22 per cent of the wealth. So the money is there but it is very unevenly distributed, and the Government is not prepared to do anything at all about redistributing it. What it has done is impose a petrol tax on the little people of this country, a tax that will bring in a minimum of $2,000m. As petrol prices rise, so will the amount of tax collected. The petrol tax will mean extra transport costs, which will push up prices. Higher prices will mean fewer goods bought, which in turn will mean fewer goods produced. Fewer goods produced will mean fewer jobs, which will push Australia into even deeper trouble. 
It was put earlier in the debate that nothing had been said about what the Labor Party would do. I shall say a little about that by quoting from the policy agreed to in Adelaide by the Labor Party, a policy which has been of such great concern and interest to the Government. Perhaps if I quote the policy the Government will be even more concerned and will adopt some of it. The items we adopted included these: 
Recognising that taxation is a source of revenue . . . and a means of redistributing income and wealth - 
We fervently believe that- 
. a Labor Government will: 
Reform the taxation system as far as possible to redistribute the burden of taxation in ways consistent with the philosophy of ability to pay and the need for an adequate, minimum standard of living. Maintain a progressive income tax on individuals; and avoid recourse to any form of concession which favours high income earners. 
Support tax indexation to ensure that the burdens and benefits of the personal income tax are not distorted by inflation. 
We believe those things fervently. We are proud of them. We are not in any way ashamed of them, and we will go out and push that line from one end of Australia to the other. The Government knows very well that policy will be well received by the people of this country because, in essence, it represents what the majority of people believe that taxation should do. I should stress that the policy puts the emphasis where it belongs. It puts the emphasis on tax coming from those who can afford to pay, and on the Government's own figures it is obvious that it is giving the biggest tax concessions to those who have the highest incomes. 
At this stage in the debate on the Budget one can only ask: Where are the Government's positive plans for employment? Where are its plans for equitable distribution of the wealth of this country? Even in the Government's terms, where are the plans for a more equitable distribution than we have at the moment? They are to be found nowhere at all, and under this Government there never will be such plans. As I said at the beginning of my remarks, the Government believes that business profits must be improved. That is what the Treasurer has said. We on this side say: You are killing the golden goose. 
-I wish to ask a question of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  Has the pharmaceutical benefits list been checked to determine whether any medications are listed which cost less than $2.75 now? 
I rise to support the amendment moved by  Senator Grimes.  There are certain matters I have to refer to that have arisen in the debate so far. I do not want to play political ping-pong- 'You said', 'I said' and that sort of nonsense- but charges of misleading are very serious and should be carefully made, especially in an area of such importance to the lives of people as this. When  Senator Walters  spoke she accused  Senator Ryan  of misleading the Senate.  Senator Walters  quoted some figures for medical benefits cover. For a family cover for 75 per cent of doctors' fees she quoted a cost of between $2.68 and $2.92; and for the same cover- 75 per cent of the doctors' fees- for a single person she said it was between $1.34 and $1.46. I went from the Senate to my office and telephoned two medical benefits associations in Melbourne- the Hospital Benefits Association and Medibank. I asked what they charged for 75 per cent cover of medical fees. HBA charged $3.50 a week for a family and $1.75 for a single person. Medibank, for a cover of 75 per cent of the schedule fee, charges $3.38 a week for a family and $ 1 .69 a week for a single person. 
Who was misleading the Senate?  Senator Walters  has had ample opportunity to check out those figures more carefully. She quoted extensively from what  Senator Ryan  said. I will tell honourable senators what maximum medical and hospital cover plus extras will cost. The Medical Benefits Fund of Australia will charge $ 1 4.90 a week. The Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia will charge $16.90 a week. Medibank Private will charge $17.30 a week. Without extras, Medibank Private will charge $14.70 a week and HCF will charge $14.60 a week. I ask again: Who was misleading the Senate? It appears to me that  Senator Ryan,  in the remarks that she made earlier this year on this matter, was considerably restrained in the figures that she quoted. I think that  Senator Walters  should have shown the same restraint when she bought into this argument. On  Senator Walters'  figures, a family will have to pay $2.68 for cover by a health fund, $10 for its share of each visit to the doctor and $5.50 to fill two prescriptions, which is the average these days after a visit to the doctor. This means that a family will be paying about $ 1 8. 1 8 for a visit to the doctor. I remind the Senate that about 70 per cent of the workers in this country receive below the average weekly earnings. Such people will be paying out a considerable amount to visit a doctor. This Government has to bear responsibility for the costs of health care in this country rising considerably. 
We are debating a Bill which will increase the cost of pharmaceuticals. It will cut the pharmaceutical benefit which people were enjoying. It will increase the pressure on people who are already under great pressure. It will press them even further into poverty. I wish to discuss that matter, as  Senator Baume  did, as part of the Government's proposals for health care. It is in that light that I see it. I, along with other speakers in the debate this afternoon, have to point out that pensioners who are outside the charity of the pensioner health benefit card will face increased costs. Before this increase in the cost of pharmaceuticals there was increasing evidence that people were not having made up the prescriptions written for them by their medical practitioners. They were not having them made up because they could not afford the charge of $2.50 a prescription. So they will not be able to afford the new charge of $2.75 a prescription. These people now pay extra to the health funds, extra for visits to the doctor and extra for medical care all round. It means that fewer and fewer people will go to the doctor in the first place. It means that more and more people will not have those prescriptions made up and so their very medical care will be jeopardised. 
The Pharmacy Guild of Australia recently put out a news release. I will read what is stated in it. In case anybody thinks that I am making it up, I point out that I do not carry any particular brief for the Pharmacy Guild. I think I know where it makes its living from. However, the Guild 's news release made some sense. It states: 
The Government had not only increased the monetary burden on all sick people, but had failed to take account of the needs of the disadvantaged groups in the community. 
Although the eligibility for the pensioner health benefit card has been extended to a much larger number of pensioners, there is still a tremendous number of people in the community to whom that eligibility does not apply and there are enormous numbers of unemployed people who do not benefit from eligibility for the pensioner health benefit card, who become ill and who will have to pay these increased costs. The news release went on to say: 
While the Government a year ago recognised the financial plight of people classified by doctors as disadvantaged and agreed to pay for the cost of a medical consultation, they still expect these same people to pay the full contribution towards the cost of medication arising from that consultation. 
The Guild had put up a proposal to alter the scheme. The news release went on to say that the proposal had not been accepted by the Government. It pointed out that the whole issue of the cost of pharmaceuticals should be of grave concern to doctors who could not with confidence expect their patients to take the medication they had prescribed. We have a situation in which people who are ill and who can afford to go to the doctor for advice cannot then afford to take his advice and use the medications that he prescribes. That is a ridiculous, idiotic situation for a country to be in. 
We are told as well that the list of pharmaceuticals for which pharmaceutical benefits are available is to be pruned. It has been said in the community- not, I agree, by the Government specifically- that the contraceptive pill is to be removed from the pharmaceutical benefits list, lt will be a matter of paying the higher cost or taking the risk. People who have no money to pay, whose expenses are so high that they have to prune expenditure on things like pharmaceuticals, will take the risk. I wondered, in passing, whether the Government had done any costbenefit study on what increases would occur in the payment of family allowances resulting from the contraceptive pill being removed from the pharmaceutical benefits list. I ask that, before the Government takes that action and removes the contraceptive pill from the list, it conducts a costbenefit study as to how much more it will pay out in family allowances if that happens. 
We have said consistently in the last two or three days that the costs ordinary people now have to pay for health care have risen enormously. Doctors' fees have risen tremendously. People will have to pay the first $20 of the fee for any procedure. Already we are seeing evidence in our offices of people having to pay a bill for a series of items. Previously a person who was ill and who went to the doctor received a bill for one item for the visit. That person is now receiving a bill for a series of items all for amounts under $20, all of which will have to be paid by the patient. Some of the bill can be claimed from a health insurance fund but only if the person can afford to be in one in the first place. 
The charges of health funds have risen, as I said when I began my address. Despite what  Senator Walters  has said, all authorities associated with this area acknowledge that the charges of health funds have risen enormously. The Australian Medical Association has said so and I imagine that it would know the position. The general practitioners, the Doctors Reform Society and the health funds themselves have acknowledged that the costs will rise very much. Massive increases will occur right across the board in those areas. It was difficult enough for families to afford health insurance when they were paying out $400 or $500 a year for cover. Now, families are faced with going without any medical cover whatsoever and wondering what will happen to them or paying out $700 a year for health insurance. With other taxes being imposed and with an enormous petrol tax being imposed, people have less and less money to pay out. Of course, we know what will happen in so many instances. A mother who finds that she is ill will decide that she cannot afford to go to the doctor. She will save whatever money she has to pay for her husband 's medical expenses should he be injured or in order to look after her children. 
These sorts of increases in health costs will again put great pressure on public hospitals. Already the Western General Hospital in Footscray, which covers the vast western area of Melbourne, is asking local doctors and local health centres to do all they can to keep patients out of the hospital because the hospital facilities are being extended far beyond what the hospital can cope with. A local newspaper quoted the hospital as saying:  in the very near future outpatients at the Western General Hospital may soon have to take a full day off work to see a doctor. . . People are already waiting in outpatients for four to five hours. From September, they will need to take a day off work. 
That is a bad situation for an area whose people are very much part of that 77 per cent who earn less than the average weekly wage. They are very much disadvantaged in other ways because of the lack of services in that area. They cannot afford to take a day off work to go to the hospital for care. On the other hand, they cannot afford to pay the doctor for the care they need. They cannot afford to pay to be covered by some of the health funds. The western suburbs of Melbourne often have been called disadvantaged, not at all because of the people who live there but because of the disadvantage they suffer through lack of services. Not many people have ever called the eastern suburbs of Melbourne disadvantaged, but when it comes to hospital care the people of the eastern suburbs are very much disadvantaged. This situation has been a scandal in that area for years. I quote from a recent article in the  National Times  which sums it up: 
In early 1 977 the Government commissioned a committee to investigate the availability of casualty services for road accident victims around Melbourne. 
The report has not yet been released but it found that there was an urgent need for a casualty department in Melbourne 's eastern suburbs. 
A casualty department is needed as is an enlarged public hospital area. Recently a scandal was reported by a lady of some renown among charitable people in Melbourne. Dame Phyllis Frost, a lady who is very level-headed and sensible, reported recently that an eight-year-old girl who lived next door to her in the outer Melbourne suburb of Croydon died after swallowing quinine pills. Dame Phyllis, who is in charge of fund raising for the Maroondah Hospital in the same area of Melbourne, tried everything to save the girl. The child died on her way to hospitalnot to Maroondah Hospital, which is only three miles away, but to Box Hill Hospital, 12 miles away. These hospitals are going to be under even greater pressure in the future. An elderly man, and a very dear friend, who from time to time came into my office to work, some two weeks ago had a stroke in my office, which is only five minutes away from the Box Hill Hospital. My staff called a doctor and an ambulance and he was admitted to the Box Hill Hospital within 15 minutes of having had the stroke. He was there for two and a half hours waiting for somebody to look at him. During that time nobody looked at him because nobody was available. When a doctor finally came and examined him he was told that no beds were available in the hospital and that he would have to be moved to a private hospital some three miles away. 
I am trying to point out that the hospital facilities in all areas of Melbourne, apart perhaps from some of the northern areas, are under great stress now. With the increased health care costs they will come under even greater stress, and some areas will not be able to cope with the problems. In this Government's rabid search for schemes to cut costs, regardless of the final cost, I think it is going to absurd lengths, and in some areas it is increasing costs. In that context I want to raise the subject of community health services, which have been told that they must now charge for their services. The Health Commission advised: 
Following agreement between the Commonwealth and State Governments, the Commission instructs Health Centres that effective from the 1st September, 1979, charges will be raised for Privately Insured patients receiving professional services in centres where doctors are employed on a salaried or sessional paid basis. 
The income derived by the Community Health Centres from such charges will be credited to the Centres gross Operating Costs in such a way as to reduce the Community Health Program 's contributions by both the Commonwealth and the State. 
On the surface, that has a certain logic about it. But can I go just a little further and deal with the establishment of community health centres. In Deer Park, in the western suburbs of Melbourne, there were no medical services in the area, which has a growing number of young families. There were literally no medical services there, and so the Deer Park Community Health Services was established. That service now has been asked by the Western General Hospital to do all it can to keep its patients out of the hospital. 
We have the ridiculous situation where health centres are being asked to charge privately insured patients for the professional services they receive. In the first place, this is an entirely unworkable system because it encourages people who are in private health insurance funds to drop out of those funds. Patients of the centre who have private medical cover are disadvantaged alongside a patient who has no medical cover. Secondly, it creates a  Catch 22  situation. If a patient is covered by a private medical fund he has to pay at the centre; if he is not covered he does not have to pay. People are left wondering whether they should go on paying for private insurance and pay at the centre or drop out of a private insurance fund and get their health care free. But how does the centre find out whether people are covered by health insurance? It is very easy to prove that a person is covered by health insurance but it is very difficult to prove that he is not covered. 
In another area, additional costs will now be incurred by health centres which follow the Health Commission's orders. They will have to increase their staff to handle the necessary accounts and to cope with the work load that will arise from this system. Salaries will have to be paid to the extra staff brought into the health centres and additional expenses will be incurred by way of payroll tax and other administrative expenses. One wonders how much of a gap there will be between the income derived and the costs incurred by the scheme. In that respect, I repeat the statement in the Commission 's letter: 
The income derived by the Community Health Centres from such charges will be credited to the Centres gross Operating Costs in such a way as to reduce the Community Health Program's contributions by both the Commonwealth and the State. 
But who will pay the extra costs entailed in bringing the system into being? Who will pay for the staff, the payroll tax and the administrative expenses? Who will pay for all that great bundle? It means that a health centre which was supplying a great service in an area where no services existed is now in the extraordinary position of having to winkle through all its patients and sort the sheep from the goats. It has to spend time and money charging people in a system that previously was worrking well for everybody concerned. People will be forced back to the hospitals, and in that regard, I quote from a letter I received from the Deer Park Community Health Services: 
An alarming aspect of such a scheme would be the result of a transfer of work load from Community Health Centres to the Casualty/Out Patient sections of the public hospitals. Whereas over a period of time it has been proven that to a large degree the existence of services from our Centre has lessened the work load at the Western General Hospital, the Royal Children's Hospital, Footscray Psychiatric Hospital and Royal Park Psychiatric Hospital. The effects in the long run would be to revert to the work loads, long queues and waiting hours of the past. 
It seems such a pity that a concept which was working so well should now be thrown back into the melting pot. It is the end of a concept that was conceived with the express purpose and intention of producing primary health care, paramedical and other ancillary services under one roof to all members of the community. The centre provides a service for a young, growing community, which is very much at risk in today's circumstances. I shall illustrate the sort of community serviced by the centre. This year there have been 2,550 new registrations at the Deer Park Community Health Services. The age groups involved are interesting and point up my contention that this service is very much needed by a young growing community. Of those 2,550 new registrations, 33.2 per cent were of persons between the ages of one day and 9 years; 29 per cent between the ages of 10 years and 19 years; 1 9.5 per cent between the ages of 20 years and 29 years; 9.8 per cent between the ages of 30 years and 39 years; 3.5 per cent between the ages of 40 years and 49 years; 2.5 per cent between the ages of 50 years and 59 years; 2 per cent between the ages of 60 years and 69 years; and 0.5 per cent between the ages of 70 and 79 years. The service is provided for a group of people who are very much at risk and very much affected by unemployment, higher costs and rising taxation. 
In an area with a population of 17,000, medical attendances last year totalled 36,436, paramedical and welfare attendants totalled 35,498 and health, education and other meetings accounted for 11,677 attendances. The costs of the centre- this is before the interference from 1 September- were $6.26 a head. If the Government is looking to cutting the ever-rising costs of health services it should look to this area. Nobody could say that, in a population of that size and complexify and in view of the numbers of visits and the sort of care offered, a cost of $6.26 a head was in any way excessive. If the Government really wants to reduce costs, the $7m saved on the pharmaceutical benefit scheme is nothing compared with the sort of money that could be saved by this scheme. The Australian public wants positive health preservation policies which this sort of scheme puts forward. 
Finally, I will give the Senate some idea of the sort of services available at this community health centre. The services include those of doctors, a welfare officer, a psychologist, a physiotherapist, a chiropodist, a dentist, an optometrist, a psychiatrist, a family planning clinic, a slimming club, immunisation, acoustic testing and pathology. None of those services even existed in that area of Melbourne before this community health service was established. It will be an appalling tragedy if this scheme to charge people in private health funds does anything to break up this tremendous service that is being given to people of this area. As well as the services I have mentioned the centre has a community contact scheme for people who are lonely, worried and frightened and who need to communicate with other human beings. The centre covers all sorts of things that people can do. People can learn skills such as needlework, copper work and weaving to fill in their leisure time. The centre also caters for groups in the community such as Alcoholics Anonymous- Al-anon- and GROW and other groups involved with calisthenics, jazz ballet, boy scouts, residents' associations and art. In other words, it provides an all round service to assist people to cope with the trauma and the pressures of day-to-day living. I think it would be, as I say, a tragedy if the Government were to interfere with this scheme and bring in a scheme that will cost the community in general and the governments a great deal more money. We want positive health preservation policies. I support the amendment.  (Quorum formed). 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. It appears that the State Government in Victoria has ignored whatever powers it has to control X-ray equipment. The Australian Radiation Laboratory has had great influence in this area and has been responsible for research into the effects of X-rays. As the Minister's Department is responsible for the Radiation Laboratory, can he advise the Senate of steps being taken by his Department to safeguard the community from overuse of X-rays? 
I present the following petition from 20 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we the undersigned, believe in and support the idea that Australia should join in with the current American, Russian and Canadian efforts for SETI- Search for ExtraTerrestrial Intelligence- using existing facilities and personnel. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 

 -Like Senator Davidson, I thank  Senator Tate  for having raised the matter. I must say though that on looking at the motion that  Senator Tate  moved I am too ashamed as an Australia to talk about the second half of the motion which states: 
Encourages every action which might be appropriate to relieve suffering and deprivation affecting many of the world 's one billion five hundred million children. 
I am too ashamed to talk about children outside Australia such as children in Africa who have been starved and enslaved. As an Australian I am too ashamed to talk about children in Kampuchea and India who have been starved and killed; about children in South America who have been starved, enslaved, left without education and without hope; and about children in East Timor who have been starved and killed and, I believe, abandoned by Australia. I bring to the attention of the Senate the life and the environment of a section of our three million children who are under the age of 1 2 years. Some of these children have never lived at home with their parents, or, at best, they have lived there for a short time. Some of them within a fortnight of being bom went to an institution, and are destined to live out their lives in that institution and never go home. Some have lived in the hospital in which they were born for very many years until, because of the death of another child, a bed has become available in an institution and they have been discharged from that hospital and sent to the institution, the only home that they are ever destined to know. These are the children who in this rich, well ordered Australian community are born mentally or physically retarded. 
Some of those children were fortunate enough to go home to a warm, familiar surrounding with parents who battled valiantly to give them some sort of normal life, without any assistance by way of education, health care or relief from the overpowering 24 hours a day, seven days a week problems that they are faced with all their lives. The parents live in terror of their death because they do not know what is going to happen to those children after that. Some of those parents, because of outside pressures, such as pressures of having no work and having other children to look after, have had to let their children go to institutions. I have talked to some of those parents who are appalled and bewildered by what they have to abandon their children to. They are bewildered because those in authority- those people whom they see as being authorities- who should know, say to them: 'Put your children in this institution. That is the best you can do for them. That is the only thing you can do for them. Because of your other responsibilities you must put your children in this institution'. They are appalled at the institution that they find is available in which to put their children whom they bore, whom they love and regard as human beings. They find they have to literally abandon them to institutions that are lacking in homely comfort, individual and educational care. They are institutions about which, at best, one can say keep those children covered and warm and keep them fed. What they are covered in, what they are fed with and how they are fed leave their parents with great feelings of guilt and of inability to cope. 
The parents abandon their children because they are told to do so by people whom they believe should know better. They abandon their children to institutions that in many instances were built for adults in the nineteenth century and are still standing. They abandon them to institutions that are over-crowded. Many of them carry one-third more than the number of adults they were designed for. They are abandoned to institutions where one night nurse has to look after and be responsible for 36 children, some of whom are quite incapable of moving. So one wonders what would happen if a fire broke out in those institutions. Indeed there is one large institution in Melbourne in which helpless children have been living since 1963. At this moment it is having a fire prevention system put into it which can deal with fire were it to break out. So we have lived on the edge of a razor blade there. They live in institutions in these sorts of conditions, without these sorts of health and life preservation systems. In some areas there are 30 centimetres between the beds and, I remind honourable senators, there is one nurse to look after 36 children. They live in institutions where there is no privacy, where there are toilets without doors and where there are communal bath facilities. In one institution it was reported that young girls in mixed wards with no toilet facilities had to use small aluminium pots in the day room. 
This is the sort of dignity that our children are left with, that they are abandoned to. They live in institutions where they have no private rooms of their own to live in; they live in large communal dormitories, and they sleep in small iron baby cots that were designed for children up to the age of 18 months. They have no clothes of their own, they are dressed from communal wardrobes. Is it any wonder that their parents live in despair and fear, and hate themselves for what they have done to their children? But the governments of this country offer them nothing else. There is little or no education for these children and there is little or no training of any kind for them. I suppose one can say that in the sort of society in which we live today there is not much hope for bright children who have gone through school, have passed their exams and have done well but who still do not have much of a future and will not have a job. Those children who the community assesses as being permanently retarded may lead the community to say that it cannot afford to waste its resources on them. What if a child is not mentally retarded but physically retarded; he is physically retarded but fully intelligent, inside a stupid body that will not work, trapped inside a body and inside an institution? 
As the honourable senator says, we need Rosemary Crossleys There is a small group of children, about whom I have talked before in the Senate, in the St Nicholas Hospital for the Retarded in Melbourne. In that hospital there was a little girl, Annie MacDonald, who was put there on the advice of the people who should know- her parents- when she was four years of age and who lived there for 15 years of her life. Annie MacDonald had to go to court to get permission to leave that hospital. She had to prove that she had enough intelligence to be able to exist outside the hospital. A neutral assessor was asked to report to the court on Anne MacDonald 's intelligence. He reported in this way: 
Her concentration was very good indeed and she received instruction extremely well and retained those instructions quite well. Questions to her were at times quite lengthy but she attended well and carried out all tasks with efficiency and accuracy. Her powers of concentration and attention were extremely good and her memory also was extremely good. 
I remind the Senate that this is a little girl who has cerebal palsy and who, when I first met her, could not control the movements of her arms, legs, head, tongue or eyes and yet in those 15 years she had lived in this institution she had learned to communicate with other people by means of moving metal letters on a board. At times it seemed that she did that with a great deal of difficulty because of this uncontrollable movement. This is the little girl on whom the psychologist is reporting in these terms: 
In fact, her performance was errorless on the sample questions and the pro rated verbal IQ so derived was found to be 1 10, that is, above average- whereas the non-verbal pro rated 1Q was found to be 101. 
The overall estimated IQ was found to be 106. It could well be that with further hours of testing, in view of the slowness of the alphabet board method, she could achieve even higher IQ functioning. 
There is no doubt however that she possesses a verbal IQ which is above average at least and that she is capable of quite sophisticated forms of communication. Clearly, she is capable of giving quite sound and logical instructions to her legal advisers. Examples of her rather sophisticated responses included the knowledge that the population of Australia is 13 million- that is within the acceptable range of a correct response- that water boils at 100 degrees, that one travels in a north-easterly direction from Adelaide to Brisbane. As quickly as the examiner delivered a question in relation to the price of a certain item in that two such items  would cost 31c what would be the price of a dozen, she recorded the figures of$ 1.86. 
In giving difficult single word answers to a verbal abstraction similarities task, she was able to specify that a dog and a lion were alike in that they are mammals. Furthermore, in referring to the similarity between an eye and an ear, she said they were sensory organs. Her vocabulary was quite sophisticated. She knew that the word impale meant to pierce, that reluctant meant unwilling and when asked for a single word to describe compassion, she indicated, through her alphabet board, the word 'sympathy'. 
Following observation, communication and appropriate and comprehensive intellectual testing of this person it is concluded that she possesses above average intellectual strength at least with potentiality of intellect extending even further. She is a rational person of sound mind who is capable of giving quite adequate instructions to her legal advisers. 
Annie MacDonald had lived in an institution for 15 years without any education. Whatever she had learned, she had learned by observation, by watching television and listening to people. She had been surrounded by people who thought that she was a vegetable; she had been surrounded by people who in front of her talked about the fact that she would not live long. They anticipated when she would die, thinking- as so many of us do- that because people are retarded, they are also deaf. It was not until a lady named Rose Crossley came to work at the hospital and saw some gleam there, some glimmer and some desperate attempt to communicate with somebody, that she was able to set up a very rough form of communication with letters on a metal board being moved around by a hand and arm that found it very difficult to move in the direction in which her brain said to move. 
In all that time, Anne MacDonald had persevered, had stayed alive as a person and had achieved that sort of intellect. What haunts people like Rose Crossley and Anne MacDonald is how many others are buried in institutions around Australia; how many others are imprisoned in stupid bodies inside institutions because we are too lazy or do not care enough to try to find the people inside those bodies. What could be done if the governments really were concerned about children and found the Anne MacDonalds long before they had existed for 14 years in those sorts of conditions. 
I have talked before about Anne MacDonald and a small group of children at St Nicks, but there have been other children at the hospital, children who were not lucky enough to be close to Rose Crossley and were not lucky enough to have somebody draw them out. Another little boy was supposedly born with what seemed to be mental retardation and because his parents were not physically strong people, the doctors advised them to put him in St Nicholas Hospital. 
But they were loving people and they kept up a close association. They pestered people until they got him into a day centre outside the hospital. He would go to that day centre and return to St Nicholas Hospital to sleep at night, and his parents would take him home to their flat at the weekend. After a little time they thought that that was ridiculous; they could have him at home with them and be a family again. They told St Nicholas Hospital that they would like to take him out of the hospital and take him home where they could live as a family, and they would take him to the day centre. They received a similar response from this hospital to that taken from an example of another family, who wrote the following letter: 
Two weeks back we advised St Nicholas of the day of discharge, the 15th June 1979. Nothing whatever was done to support or encourage us by the Staff. On 1 5 June the boy was examined by a new male doctor who had never set eyes on him before that day. The sister of the ward had just been appointed to her position and was openly hostile in her attitude towards us. We were not permitted to sign the correct document but only the usual weekend paper. At the last moment we were brutally informed that the Superintendent Psychiatrist did not want our boy removed from the Hospital but he refused to see us and would not say why, even though he knew three months ago of our intention. What upset us most was that after six years as a patient, no one turned up to farewell him. However, we took him out and nothing on this earth will make us take him back. 
That parent, in a letter to me, seemed to sum up in these words what so many parents feel about children in this sort of situation: 
As we see it, everything hinges on one essential factor. The question which should be asked and constantly kept under review is this: What conditions exist to promote and advance the personal and social self-esteem of each mental patient? By way of contrast, consider the treatment of a criminal convicted by law and imprisoned for his offence. He is fed, clothed, housed, shut up and never allowed to forget, even after his release, that he is under surveillance. We believe that the readiness of a growing child with cerebral palsy to improve physically, mentally and spiritually, really depends on the freedom we give him to form a constructive selfimage as a person in his own right. If we deny him that freedom by the many forms of bastardisation prevalent in State Institutions then he has no other possibility but regression bom om of hopelessness. In that case the ancient Greeks were logically perceptive in exposing unwanted and deformed kids, by leaving them to die on the nearest mountain. 
In that lies a lot of sense. If we do not care about these children, if we do not care about the quality of life they are going to live, why do we let them live in the first place? That is how parents feel, but who is to help them? In Victoria we have large charity appeals to provide facilities for these sorts of children but much of the money that is raised by television appeal, by all sorts of razzamataz, goes to public relations firms. We do not look after the severely retarded children with that money, we look after the children that can be accommodated socially. The severely retarded children, the children with whom there are real difficulties of communication and assistance go to institutions. The State abrogates its responsibility to educate all children. It educates the children that are easy to educate. The Premier of Victoria was fronted with this problem some years ago. In September 1978  Mr Hamer,  the Premier of Victoria made this public comment: 
Elsewhere children moderately or severely handicapped arc regarded as a health or mental health responsibilityVictoria regards them as trainable and educable. 
That is so much malarky. Victoria does not regard them as anything but a liability and there are not too many other States in Australia which regard them as anything else but a liability. They are not trained, they are not looked on as human beings. They are shut away now as much as they were ever shut away in the dark ages. They are shut away and forgotten and the authorities hope that the world will not raise the subject. 
The State department in Victoria continually cries poor mouth. If you raise the situation of these children it says: 'Oh yes, yes'. It knows that something should be done but it has not got the money and can never find the money. At the moment in Victoria the parents of 80 severely handicapped children whom they find it very difficult to cope with physically can find no places and there are no services in the community to assist them. But wards built in Victoria as long ago as five years in at least two residential institutions have never been opened because of lack of staff. There are 30 graduates at this moment available in Victoria that the Victorian Government will not employ. Graduates from a certificate course specialising in mental retardation have been forced onto the dole or into other jobs because the Health Commission could not find them work and would not find them work. The 30 graduates have not been employed by the Commission even though they have a letter from the Premier,  Mr Hamer,  promising them jobs. This is despite a critical shortage of staff in Victorian mental institutions and for community support schemes. The course that those graduates did is estimated to have cost the Government about $60,000. It was $60,000 wasted. There are 80 children outside institutions and innumerable children buried in institutions for whom governments will do nothing. One of the interesting facts is that maybe many of these children should not be in institutions at all. 
The South Australian Government, which has been mentioned in this Senate many times this week, not always in a very truthful way, cared about these handicapped people. South Australia went out to see what could be done for handicapped people. It found that many handicapped people wanted independent normal lives. It found that not only did that mean that they needed help, care, education and assistance; it found that if those services were provided independent people could achieve normal independent lives. It found, as governments in other parts of the world have found, that not only did it bring human beings into the world but that it was very much cheaper than burying people in institutions. One asks: Where is the vision, care, love and positive thinking that might lead to the solutions that will bring people out of that dreadful twilight world into the world we know? 
Amongst children who are mentally retarded is the group that most people know, mongoloid children; children who suffer from Down's syndrome, children who have been written off for years as being impossible to educate, impossible to use in the world. We have had to put up with them and generally put them in an institution. There is a doctor in Victoria, Graham CluniesRoss, of the Preston Institute of Technology, who has been working on a project to accelerate the development of Down's syndrome infants and young children.  His  report on this work states: 
Developmental progress data are reported on 36 Down 's syndrome infants and young children who have been involved in an early educational intervention project for between 4 months and 2 years. The project incorporated parent training and home-based instruction as well as centre-based instruction. The development of all children was accelerated, with achievements at and above normal levels being attained in several cases. Younger children were particularly advantaged by virtue of entering the project with higher developmental-quotient scores, and they progressed at least as rapidly (in some cases more rapidly) than older children. 
I want to pick out the most interesting parts of this report. It states: 
Included among the requisite components are: Commencing intervention as early as possible in the child 's life; involving parents in their child's education; using a structured framework for curriculum design and teaching; formulating curriculum objectives around normal developmental sequences; conducting frequent criterion-referenced assessments of performance and using these data as a basis for decision making; having the program implemented by an integrated inter-disciplinary staff team: and providing follow-through programs for children as they advance beyond early intervention. 
This doctor worked along these lines because he found that in other parts of the world outstanding results were being attained. Outstanding results have been reported from the program for 
Down's syndrome infants and children conducted at the University of Washington. Children who have been in the project for up to five years are reported as having advanced to a level where they are achieving 95 per cent of the tasks expected of normal children of similar chronological age. This contrasts sharply with the typical pattern of development in Down's syndrome children reared at home in apparently normal family circumstances but without the benefits of early educational intervention. That is one area concerning mentally retarded children that we have wiped off. It is one area that shows some hope that these people have something to offer to the world, that there can be some sort of breakthrough. 
Recently in Melbourne newspapers a report appeared about a  Dr Anthony  Buffery, a 29- year-old paediatric neuropsychologist who has recently been appointed senior lecturer in psychology at Melbourne University's Austin Hospital Clinical School. He would like to see brain damage and the emotional jolt that goes with the term disappear from the popular vocabulary and cruel labels such as 'cabbage' and human vegetable' regarded as obscenities. He poses the question: Can the circuits of the human brain be re-tuned like those of a hi-fi set? As circuits of a hi-fi set can be patched up, it might be possible to teach the brain to use different circuits to handle the work of an afflicted area. 
It is really depressing when one moves into the world of the children in this twilight zone to find no government intervention, no government research programs, no government programs to search out answers to the problem of why these children were put in this position in the first place, no government programs to assist them when we do find that they are in the position of being retarded. We need direct government assistance to accelerate research in these areas, to open up mental health institutions to new ideas and to education, to bring these people into a world of normal living. The Federal Government, through its Minister for Education, can grant money for research in these areas. The Federal Government, through its Minister for Education, can ensure by means of specific purpose grants that education programs are commenced in these institutions so that the children can give to the world what they have to give. 
Back in 1977 there was a great outcry in Victoria about ' minus ' children, the children in institutions who were not as normal as other children. A report was called for and prepared, but unfortunately that report is now called the lost report. It was presented in 1 977 and has gathered dust in government pigeonholes ever since. The report, which was on the plight of Victoria 's mentally retarded children, was prepared almost three years ago by a 12-member governmentappointed committee comprising doctors and specialists in social welfare and treatment of the handicapped. It has never been released to the public, never been debated in Parliament, but nevertheless it is worth quoting. Its description of life inside a government home for mentally retarded states: 
Our residential training centres are an indictment on the people of Victoria. 
A typical ward in one of these institutions consists of a large dormitory with no privacy, a day room in which all activities have to take place, very often including eating, and inadequate and public or semi-public toilet bathing facilities. 
Bathing is often on a scheduled, mass-production basis with residents lining up naked at one end and emerging, in varying degrees of cleanliness, at the other. 
Most residential training centres in the State are surrounded by pleasant and spacious grounds . . . these grounds are seldom used . . . largely because of staff shortages and the degree of supervision that many of the residents require. 
The report stated that there were insufficient chairs for the residents and seating might consist only of two or three hard benches. It continued: 
Beds are often cold and uncomfortable  . . and . . . small: in many instances beds have to be small to crowd sufficient into space available for the number of residents. 
Residents often suffer severly from the cold. 
That is Victoria's lost report, a report that was made in 1977, a report that has never been acted upon, a report that condemns people to limbo. This week the Acting Director of Mental Retardation Services in Victoria,  Dr Rosemary  West, resigned. As reported in the  National Times,  these are the reasons  Dr West  gave for her resignation: 
Residential institutions are hopelessly overcrowded and understaffed. 
Most of the institutions are about 100 years old and arc massive fire and health risks. 
General hospitals and other institutions are forced to take mentally retarded people because there is no space elsewhere. 
Wards built as long as five years ago at two residential institutions have never been opened because of lack of staff. 
People forced out of institutions because of lack of room are often dumped in privately run special accommodation houses where the conditions are frequently horrific. 
Mentally retarded people are assaulted by staff because of enormous stress the staff are forced to live with. 
An expert report to the Premier two years ago has been ignored. Action has been taken on only one of its recommendations- the major one. The Government rejected the committee 's advice that an Office of Mental Retardation be created as a statutory authority. Although the Premier, 

 Mr Hamer, received the report in August 1977, he has not yet tabled it in Parliament. 
Despite a decade of rapidly increasing and, by 1979, virtually total acceptance of the report's guiding principle- letting the mentally retarded live as normal a life as possible- very little has been done to translate this concept into practice.  1 say again that the horrific part of that report and of the whole scene is that there may very well be people in those institutions who are not mentally retarded, who are as well versed and as intelligent as the members of this Parliament- I might be cynical enough to say 'as intelligent as even members of this Parliament'- who are locked into that situation and whom nobody will rescue. Long ago in this Senate, following me in a debate,  Senator Kathy  Martin said of me: 'We could have set  Senator Melzer's  speech to music'. I took that to heart, and in this speech I have tried not to dwell on the purple prose, not to point out in emotive phrases the terrible life that children in this area can live, but to give some evidence of the lives they live. It is no longer the time for music. It is no longer the time for tears. The tears have to be turned into action, and this Government has to show solid plans to bring these children into the real world. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources inform the Senate what new contracts have been entered into since 1972 for the sale of Australian uranium? 
-Has the Minister for Social Security seen a statement by the Victorian Minister for Community Welfare Services that payments of pensions under the States Grants (Deserted Wives) Act will stop on 1 January next year? Does the Commonwealth Government expect to be paying supporting mother's benefit to these women who previously received pensions from the Victorian Government? What were the recommendations from the State welfare Ministers on the payment of a lone parent pension? I remind the Minister that she expected the report last May and there has been a question on this matter on the Notice Paper for some weeks. 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment the following question, upon notice, on 28 May 1979: 
1 ) Did the Attorney-General, on 23 May 1979, refer to complaints from Australian oil explorers that they were not allowed to have seismic ships in the Barrier Reef area. 
Were members of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment told, during the week of 13 to 18 May 1979, by a member of the Great Barrier Reef Authority that there was such a ship in the area at that time. 
Are there any seismic vessels in the Barrier Reef area at this time: if so: (a) how many; and (b) for what oil companies are they working. 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment the following question, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1979: 
) Has the Minister received any information relating to seismic vessels in the Great Barrier Reef area, following his answer to a Question without Notice on 24 May 1979 (see Senate  Hansard,  page 2083; see also Question No. 1637, placed on notice on 24 May 1979); if not, does the Minister intend to seek the information. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 30 August 1979: 
1 ) Have some applicants for Australian citizenship: 
received letters from the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs refusing their applications on the grounds that they did not have an adequate knowledge of the responsibilities and privileges of Australian citizenship; and 
been told at their first interview with departmental officers that they had been refused because their English was not sufficiently fluent. 
What standards are required of applicants, before Australian citizenship is granted, and what are the relevant guidelines. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
What new contracts have been entered into for the sale of Australian uranium since 1972. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. The Minister will be aware of a report now published in the United States, written in mid- 1 975 by William Colby, the then Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, on the overall United States intelligence requirements up to 1981. This CIA document judged that South Korea could develop a nuclear weapons capability over the next decade. Does this mean that this Government will now review its intention to allow sales of uranium to South Korea? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 23 August 1979: 
What is the actual cost of refitting the two Boeing 707 VIP aircraft recently purchased by the Government (see the answer to Senate Question No. 1658,  Hansard,  21 August 1979, page 73). 
How many Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) personnel are specifically employed on this work; what rank are they; and what specific equipment had to be purchased for work to be carried out. 
Will the salaries, allowances and other expenses of the personnel be paid by the Department of Defence or the Prime Minister's Department. 
Were the costs of crewing and maintaining the aircraft in connection with the recent Commonwealth Heads of Government Conference in Lusaka covered by the Prime Minister's Depanment or the Department of Defence. 
Is the cost of the Prime Minister's use of RAAF aircraft and personnel usually met  from  the Defence appropriations or is there a separate vote to cover these matters. 
My question is directed to the Deputy Leader of the Government in the Senate. I ask: In view of the incidents that have occurred around Australia in the last few days concerning the use of liquefied petroleum gas in cars and vans, what action has been taken by the Government to up-date Australian safety standards? Does the Government accept that it has a role to play in setting a standard in this area? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources advise whether the land on which the township of Jabiru is being built adjacent to the Ranger mine project site is land excised from the Kakadu National Park and subject to Federal administration? If this is so, why is the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly assuming a planning role over the area? Will this mean a change in the size and nature of the township? What action is the Government taking in this matter? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and concerns women's refuges and the funding for them. There is disquiet in the community because there appears to be a prospect of continuing funding being cut. Until now the addresses of these refuges have been kept with great confidentiality for obvious security reasons. Can the Minister advise whether the Federal Government has issued instructions which would mean that there would be no funding unless these addresses were made available to welfare departments and social workers in the States? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, 1 present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
National Biological Standards Laboratory (NBSL) and Australian Dental Standards Laboratory (ADSL) at Symonston, Australian Capital Territory. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs advise this Senate why, when there is high unemployment all over Australia and especially in the provincial centres, this Government has the Australian Embassy place advertisements such as it did recently with a daily newspaper in Hamburg, Germany, calling for immigrants in such classifications as computer programmers and operators, mechanical fitters, mechanics, turners and fitters, boilermakers, refrigeration mechanics, plumbers, carpenters, butchers, pastrycooks, bakers and ladies hairdressers? Why is it that we say, to quote the advertisements, that we will welcome inquiries from any other tradesmen not mentioned above when there are excellent young people here, especially in our provincial areas, where there is absolutely no job available to them, who are well educated, willing to work and, above all, anxious to learn a trade? 
I refer the AttorneyGeneral to questions that have been raised about the alleged social security fraud case. In answers the Attorney-General has given he has stated that he had recommended a pardon for a  Mr Nakis  and that his officers were involved in discussions regarding the payment of a reward to  Mr Nakis  for evidence. I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Is it not unprecedented both to grant a pardon and to offer a sum of money for assistance to the police? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Was there a meeting of the Executive Council to approve the pardon of  Mr Chris  Nakis or was it done directly between the Attorney-General and the GovernorGeneral? If a meeting of the Executive Council was held, who were the Ministers present? 
My question, which is addressed to the Attorney-General, follows the answer that he gave to  Senator McClelland.  Is it true that six or more people have been granted a pardon or an immunity from prosecution in return for their evidence in the alleged social security fraud case? How many people in all have now been granted either pardons or immunities from prosecution because of the evidence they will give in this case? Have these people been paid or offered, or have they asked for, a reward in connection with the evidence they will give? Is it proposed to pay any reward that is to be paid in Australia or in Greece? 
