Will the Minister representing the Prime Minister institute inquiries into the reason why security police officers recently visited the offices of all Queensland members of the Commonwealth Parliament situated in Brisbane, without first having the courtesy to advise such members of the proposed visit? 
Will the Minister for Works investigate the possibility of reducing the incidence of noise occurring as a result of the rebuilding programme at the Commonwealth offices in Brisbane and thus permit public servants and Commonwealth court proceedings in the existing building to function in some degree of quietness while the programme is in progress? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health: Is it a fact that under the proposed Government health scheme a worker supporting a wife and earning $42.50 a week will receive full cover but a worker supporting a wife and 5 children and earning $48.76 a week will receive but two-thirds of the full cover? If such is the case, does it not appear to be a serious anomaly? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government who represents the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister ever conferred with the Queensland Premier on the proposal to introduce legislation to assert and establish what the Commonwealth conceives to be its legal rights in relation to resources from the low water mark to the outer limits of the continental shelf? If the answer is no, would it not have been more courteous to a sovereign State to have conferred on such  proposals? If the answer is yes, will the Prime Minister make a Press statement giving the approximate time and place of such discussions and the precise nature of the information conveyed to the Premier of Queensland? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. By what authority does the Government act in refusing an Australian passport to an Australian when such applicant has never been found guilty in law of any offence or offences against the laws of Australia? Could such a refusal be construed as a denial of the fundamental right that a man is deemed to be innocent until such time as he is proved guilty? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I ask the Minister whether his attention has been drawn to the statement in the columns of this morning's edition of the Queensland 'Courier-Mail' and attributed to the Queensland State Treasurer, the Honourable G. Chalk, in which he stated, inter alia: 
Queensland is losing more and more control over its own affairs to the Commonwealth and this undesirable trend can lead only to a stronger central government and weaker State governments'? 
Will the Prime Minister, after reading the statement, answer such criticisms if they are inconsistent with the facts? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence a question. Does not the Government owe to the people of Australia, particularly to relatives of servicemen in Vietnam, an explanation of the rise in casualties there in recent weeks, Does not the Government realise that the people of Australia will not accept lightly a steadily rising rate of Australian casualties at a time when United States troops are withdrawing from Vietnam and US casualties are declining markedly? 
Has the Minister representing the Treasurer knowledge of the text of a news copy dated 10th March 1970 in which the Postmaster-General, the  Hon.  Alan S. Hulme, M.P., criticised the Treasurer of Queensland, the  Hon.  G. Chalk, M.L.A., for alleged inaccurate financial statements made to a Liberal supporters' meeting held recently in Brisbane? Has the text of the news copy the support and approval of the Commonwealth Government? If such criticism is justified, why was it not made by the Treasurer rather than the PostmasterGeneral? 
1 direct, a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. What method does the Department of Labour and National Service employ to ascertain the respective State unemployment figures at the end of each quarter? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
By what authority does the Government act in refusing an Australian passport to an Australian, when such applicant has never been found guilty of any offence or offences against the laws of Australia. 
Could such a refusal be construed as a denial of a fundamental right that a man is deemed to be innocent until such time as he is proved guilty. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. Will the Minister for Labour and National Service make his officers available in any one State of the Commonwealth to conduct a survey of the number of employees whose wages and conditions are governed by Federal awards to ascertain the number of workers who have availed themselves of the benefits of long service leave in the calendar year 1969? In such survey will the Minister disregard any pro rata leave availed of as a result of termination of employment, and also any lump sum payment made in lieu of such leave to relatives of deceased workers? 
I would like first to ask the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  who represents the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  in this chamber whether the States were consulted before this legislation was introduced. I believe in conciliation. Honourable senators will recall that at the time of the Governor-General's Speech the States were up in arms over some of the points mentioned in it. I believe it is far better to consult with the States than to introduce legislation which will cause dissatisfaction. In those circumstances I ask that the Minister answer that question. 
I refer next to proposed section 329a Like other honourable senators I find this to be a most cumbersome provision which I believe would be a lawyer's picnic if it were ever tested in court. I shall address myself no further to that, other than to say that I believe that the Opposition's objection on the score that this measure should have a limited life is reasonable in view of the fact that the proposed section is cumbersome and could cause untold difficulties in future. While referring to that 1 draw the attention of the Senate to ihe fact that a most serious situation could arise if we ever found a vessel contravening the provisions of the Bill. I shall not endeavour to relate what the consequences would be, but it is proposed that the penalty to be imposed on a shipping company shall be $2,000. I suggest that a situation of this nature should attract a far greater penalty than $2,000. 1 invite honourable senators to consider bow much the workers are fined for a crime not nearly as severe as polluting Australian waters. When the situation of the workers is borne in mind it will be seen that a great degree of mercy is being shown to the operators of vessels. Like my colleagues I believe that the Opposition has been quite reasonable in suggesting that it will not appose the legislation but at the same time expresses the reservation that the legislation should be reviewed after 6 months. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise. Has the publication 'Australia's Heritage' been reprinted recently? As this reprinted publication carries the imprint 'Printed in Australia' will the Minister ascertain whether it was in fact printed in Australia? If the imprint is correct, why was the publication imported from Hong Kong on the motor vessel Eastern Star'? 
Will the Minister representing the Postmaster-General give consideration to requiring official and/or non-official suburban post offices to cease the practice of closing for 1 hour each working day for lunch breaks when staffs at such offices can be employed on a roster basis? 
asked the Minister representing the Ministerfor Repatriation, upon notice: 
Will the Minister give reasons why Australians serving in the Ubon base, Thailand, are denied benefits conferred on Australians serving elsewhere overseas. 
Will the Minister give consideration to referring this matter to Cabinet in order that Australians serving at the Ubon base might be entitled to claim repatriation and other benefits, as is the case with American servicemen stationed in Thailand. 
I have prepared sufficient notes to deflate the Government's supporters to such a point that they would hang their heads in shame. They have initiated a debate tonight and now have but 5 members in the Senate to listen to what has been said. They should hang their heads in shame, and I close on that note because I believe it is not worth replying to some of the wild accusations that have been made by  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Rae.  I believe it is below the dignity of the Senate and of Senators to reply to them when they the senators who made them have not the courage nor the courtesy to stay and listen to what has been said. Therefore I content myself with these remarks: That if there is any violence in the streets it can be sheeted home entirely to the words of  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Rae  and those who are looking for violence on the occasion of the march. When I say violence, we are not going to promote violence but at the same time their words have tonight incited the people, particularly the workers of Australia, and if there is violence in the streets then  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Rae  can hold themselves entirely responsible for it. 
I ask the Acting Minister for External Affairs: Is it a fact that the much referred to official request from the Government of South Vietnam to commit Australian combat troops has never been published? Can the Minister give the reasons why the Government has not made known the text of the request or published such a vital document? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report on page 1 of today's 'Canberra Times', which states that Commissioner J. B. Holmes of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, in a judgment handed down on the application by certain trade unions for a public holiday to celebrate the Captain Cook bi-centenary, said thai he found it difficult to believe that Canberra would not proclaim a day to celebrate the Cook bicentenary? In view of the Commissioner's a nod is as good as a wink to a blind horse judgment, will the Government now act to give effect to the spirit of it? 
It is indeed refreshing to see the Senate with one purpose in mind, to see a unanimity of thought on how to tackle the problem of primary production in Australia. We all recognise that there are problems within the primary industries and it becomes a matter of how, between us, we may tackle the problem. I suggest that it should not be difficult to resolve the situation because the Australian Labor Party proposes to move an amendment which should fit the bill admirably. The approach from the Australian Democratic Labor Party is that there should be a royal commission to inquire into the primary industries. I suggest that that would be a most protracted way of attacking the problem.  Senator McManus  has qualified his resolution by saying that he would support any short term measures that are introduced to support primary industry, but the substance of his motion is that there should be a royal commission. I repeat that it would be a most protracted way of endeavouring to find a solution to a problem which is with us at present. 
I have had taken out by the Research Service of the Parliamentary Library a survey of royal commissions which were held between 1953 and 1967. In that period several royal commissions were conducted. To indicate just how protracted their inquiries can be, 1 point out that the Royal Commission on Television was set up on 12th February 1953 but did not present its report to Parliament until 29th September 1954 - 19 months later. The Royal Commission on Espionage was set up on 3rd May 1954 and presented its report to Parliament on 14th September 1955 - 16 months later. The Royal Commission on Alleged Improper Practices and Improper Refusal to Co-operate with the Victoria Police Force on the Part of Persons Employed in the Postmaster-General's Department in Victoria in Relation to Illegal Gambling was set up on 23rd May 1962 and presented its report to Parliament on 23rd May 1963-12 months later. The Royal Commission on the loss of HMAS Voyager' was set up on 14th February 1964 and presented its report to Parliament on 13th August 1964 - 7 months later. The Royal Commission on the Statement of Lieutenant-Commander Cabban was set up on 31st May 1967 and presented its report to Parliament on 13th March 1968-10 months later. 
I think honourable senators would agree that the Royal Commissions to which I have  referred would be very minor in their extent compared with a royal commission such as has been suggested by  Senator McManus.  I suggest that a minimum of 3 years would elapse before a report could be available from a royal commission such as he proposes, and in all probability it would take considerably longer than 3 years. Nevertheless,  Senator McManus  has suggested what he conceives to be the correct procedure. He has qualified his resolution with other statements. However, I do not think the qualification meets the bill. 1 believe it is important to do something which will give a lead to the community. 1 do not think that the amendment which has been moved by the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  fits into this category. The amendment states in effect that the most appropriate way to investigate the present problems of primary industries would be to establish industry sponsored committees of inquiry. At a later stage I shall refer to the Quarterly Review of Agricultural Economics to show that that would be almost impracticable if we are to rethink some of the problems associated with the industry. It is no good continuing to think as we have in the past. Surely we must have more progressive thoughts in this direction. 1 do not believe that an industry sponsored committee would have the facilities - I am not suggesting that it would not have the capabilities - for the forward thinking which is suggested in the document to which I shall refer later. 
Not only do I think that the suggestion of the Australian Labor Party would be better but I also believe that it. would be better. I shall deal with this aspect at a later stage. The situation is that, although we must have forward looking policies, it is nevertheless important to have some degree of self analysis in order to see whether some of the difficulties which we are experiencing at present can be attributed to our own faults. 1 would suggest that one of the major difficulties in Australia, has been the inability of the Government to grapple with the question of the harnessing of water. How many millions of gallons of water flow into the sea annually? We have not done a great deal about harnessing this water. I can remember the time - it was perhaps 40 years ago - when  Dr Bradfield  put up a proposition - I do not know whether it was to the Queensland State Government or the Commonwealth Government, but that is immaterial - for a water conservation scheme throughout Queensland known as the Bradfield scheme. At that lime the scheme would have cost approximately $14m. Everybody said that that was too much to spend on such a proposal. Although they approved of the proposal in principle they felt that the money was loo substantial to be spent in that direction. 
Lel me refer to the situation ut present. Only yesterday I was speaking to members of the Walgett Shire Council, which has been advocating for some time a  water  conservation project in its area. I am not suggesting that its scheme is perfect. All 1 am saying is that the Walgett Shire Council has put up propositions which it claims have nol been examined. The Council's proposition w;is that from its point of view such a water conservation scheme would be of greater benefit than the Snowy River scheme. If the Council's claim is true  I  would suggest that we are not being very forward thinking if we do not examine such a proposition. I return to the thoughts expressed by the Minister for Air in moving an amendment to the motion to the effect that there should be industry sponsored committees of inquiry. In this instance we have an industry sponsored committee of inquiry. Ils members have gone out of their way io endeavour to influence the State or Commonwealth Governments that there should be a water conservation scheme in the Walgett area, but we have done nothing about it. I believe that in this respect we have failed quite a substantial number of people throughout Australia. 
Queensland has experienced drought  after  drought, lt has been said on innumerable occasions that there should be water conservation projects in certain areas of Queensland, ft has been also said that had such projects been undertaken many years ago we would not be in the parlous situation in which we are today. I say this quite objectively.  Mr Acting Deputy President.  1 do nol say it in a spirit of carping criticism. I believe f hat' it is necessary to look at what  has happened in the past to ensure that the same mistakes are not made in the future. 
If that is not a reasonable proposition then 1 believe we will not make any progress in the future because we will be starting on the wrong basis. I do not wish to debate the relative merits of the Dartmouth and Chowilla proposals, but I believe that when it was recommended that a dam be constructed at Chowilla about S6m was spent on preliminary work in this area before the project was abandoned. For the life of me I. cannot see how a responsible Government could embark upon spending about S6m of the public's money on a proposal and then abandoning it. I do not think it is good planning. Most certainly it is not good husbandry. 1 wish to make a few comments in relation to (he rising costs to farmers. It is inevitable in an affluent society that costs must rise. It is useless wringing one's hands and bemoaning the fact that prices are continually rising. The immediate answer will be that this is due to higher wages. 1 am reminded of an occasion when I appeared in the State Industrial Court in Queensland and the  President  of the Industrial Court, a Supreme Court judge, was hearing evidence on a basic wage application. The employers advocate was bemoaning the fact that rising costs and inflation were crippling the industry. He said that the workers should not receive additional wages, lt has always appeared to me to be most pertinent that the Supreme Court judge turned to the employers advocate and said: 'We agree that inflation is not good for the Australian economy, but who is going to lead the way back?' The workers cannot lead the way back. A system must be devised which will prevent or endeavour to prevent the increased costs of wages and prices being passed on to the farmers. It is acknowledged that the farmers find it most difficult to puss those prices on any further. Therefore, if we were to have a look at the past and examine our failures and endeavour to correct them 1 believe that we would be more successful in the future. 1 do not think that there should be any panic about the present situation. I believe that sufficient forethought and a pooling together of the brains of Australia to tackle the problem would be sufficient to alleviate and arrest the situation. I am fortified in this regard by an article in the 'Quarterly Review of Agricultural Economies'. A report refers to the 'Australian Farm Situation, 1969-70'. The sum mary on page 1 of that document reads as follows: 
Unfavourable seasonal conditions and market opportunities have resulted in reduced output of most cereal crops and sugar, and even though livestock production is expected to set a new record, total farm output will probably be lower than in 196S-69, with a smaller accumulation of wheat stocks. Total exports of rural origin are expected to teach a new volume record: increases in exports of wool, beef, mutton, lamb and rice should more than offset a substantial fail in sugar exports. Wheat and dairy exports, although greater than last year, will probably be below the levels reached 2 or 3 years ago. and a further increase in wheat stocks is expected. 
Prices received by Tanners for wool and several other products have declined, while aggregate costs have increased slightly. Net farm income, unadjusted for stock changes, is estimated at S%9m, a fall nf S251m or 21% from the previous year's figure.  1 would suggest that all is not lost, when the serious droughts which have occurred throughout Australia are taken into consideration. I believe that  with  proper  planning  these droughts can be dealt with  in  future. Let me turn to page  8  of the document to which I have referred. This will show whether a committee as suggested by the Government could assist in this direction. Page  8  of the 'Quarterly Review of Agricultural Economics' states: 
Of rapidly growing importance as a market For many of Australia's farm products is Japan. Although a developed country, Japan has strictly limited potential for increased local production. Rising incomes together wilh rapidly changing tastes suggest a widening potential for sales nf a range of Australian products such as beef, ch: C.c coarse grains, sugar, wool and perhaps cotton. This market 011ers good prospects for growth in the short term as well as in the long term, provided our production can be successfully tailored to Japanese requirements. 
I suggest that the industry sponsored committee of inquiry could not hope to take advantage of the potential outlined in the paragraph I have read. The proposition to be put forward by the Australian Labor Party could and should be able to cope with the situation. The Labor Party believes that the Australian Agricultural Council should meet. I will stand corrected on this point, but to my knowledge the Council was  formed  in December 1934 and 1 have not heard a great deal of its reports. It may be said that we are talking politically. If one has a look at the composition of the Council that argument is destroyed immediately because the personnel of the committee are, in the vast majority, members of parties other than the Australian Labor Party. 
I am not talking politically, I am talking objectively. The Australian Labor Party is trying to overcome the problems of the primary industries and if members of the Australian Country Party want to interject and show they are not interested in that proposition, then it is unfortunate for them. 
The terms of reference of the Australian Agricultural Council are so wide that the Council can do many things for primary industry. For instance, the Council has the following functions: 
Generally to promote the welfare and development of agricultural industries. 
To arrange mutual exchange of information regarding agricultural production and marketing. 
To co-operate for the purpose of ensuring the improvement of the quality of agricultural products and the maintenance of highgrade standards. 
To ensure, as far as possible, balance between production and available markets. 
To consider the requirements of agricultural industries in regard to organised marketing. 
To promote the adoption of a uniform policy on external marketing problems, particularly those pertaining to the negotiation of  intraCommonwealth  (of Nations) and International Agreements. 
To consult in regard to proposals for the grant of financial assistance to agricultural industries. 
To consider matters submitted to the Council by the Standing Committee on Agriculture. 

 Mr Deputy President, what wider charter could anyone want than that? 
Provided it operates, (rue. It is the function of the Government to see that it does operate. I stated a while ago that I had never heard of any reports from the Council, and nobody has told me anything about any such reports. The situation is that this body was set up and its services have not been utilised. Whose fault is that? It is not the fault of the body itself, lt is the function of the Government to see that the organisation operates as intended. I repeat that this is not carping criticism on my part. I am trying to be objective and assist the primary industries. I commenced my speech on the note that I hoped we would all agree that there is a problem in primary industry and that we would submit our views on the correct procedures to be adopted to attack the problem. T close on that note. I hope I do not criticise stupidly any proposition put forward by honourable senators. I submit that our whole proposition is by far the best if it is allowed to work. I say the amendment that will be moved subsequently by the Australian Labor Party is practical as a charter to do the job. Our amendment would enable the job to be done in a most capable manner and so assist the people whom some of my colleagues on the left say are in such a difficult situation at the present time. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the Government give consideration to reversing its previous decision to deny taxation concessions for donations to reputable organisations seeking funds from Australians for overseas relief and development as an inducement to increasing aid 10 developing countries. 
In the first place let me say I am disappointed that no member of the Government has attempted to defend the action of the Executive in overriding a decision of the Senate. Honourable Senators will recall a quite lengthy debate on this issue when the Senate resolved that there should be no lifting of the embargo on the export of merino rams until such time as a plebiscite was taken of wool growers. The Executive of the Government completely overrode that Senate decision. I well recall another occasion when the Executive adopted a similar attitude and overrode the express wishes of the Senate and the House of Representatives. On that occasion honourable senators on the Government side were quite irate, and rightly so. But on this occasion we find them very silent indeed. I hope that during the course of the debate tonight honourable senators opposite will attempt to justify the action of the Executive in overriding the decision of the Senate. 
To my way of thinking it is indeed a most serious situation when the Executive can take away from Parliament its rights. I believe it is wrong for the Executive to have adopted such a high-handed attitude. If this course of events continues I suppose we might as well pack up Parliament and leave government entirely in the hands of the Executive. Of course the people of Australia will not allow that state of affairs to exist. I believe the Executive must take stock of the whole situation. If it is going to continue to act in this way then I believe honourable senators and members of the House of Representatives must revolt against such high-handed action. We have recently been acquainted with the views of the Government when honourable senators on the Government side have said that the Australian Labor Party was trying to take out of the hands of Parliament the work of Parliament. On this occasion the charge can be levelled seriously at the Executive. It has taken the control of the Senate away from the Senate. That attitude is to be strongly deplored. Let me remind you,  Mr Deputy President,  and honourable senators, that on at least 3 occasions during the short period I have been associated with the Senate, similar attempts have been made. 
I shall deal with some aspects of what has been said by government members. Let me refer to  Senator Maunsell  who said that the wool growers in western areas of Queensland were satisfied that the ban should be lifted. If  Senator Maunsell,  who is part of the Government team, is so confident I suggest he should give effect to the decision of the Senate to take a plebiscite of wool growers. If honourable senators opposite are satisfied that the wool growers of Australia are quite content that the ban should be lifted then they have no reason to fear a plebiscite and the decision of the Senate. But apparently they do not feel so confident when they dodge the issue in that direction. I do not wish to quote the Minister out of context, but I do believe he said that one of the reasons which should justify this lifting of the ban was that we in Australia should grow more wool. I suggest that we should set about growing more wool. 
The other night in a debate I referred to the Walgett Shire Council which made representations, which went unheeded, for the provision of a water supply. Let me read some figures which have been supplied by the Walgett Water Users Association. They refer to the direct losses from drought in 1965-66. Their estimate is based on a typical count of sheep. They have worked on a total of 6 million ewes. With an average yield of 8 lb per head the total wool clip would be 48 million lb, so over 5 years the total wool clip would amount to 240 million lb. The Association, working on a basis of a loss of 40c per lb as a result of drought, estimated that there was a loss of $96m. Estimating the initial cost of ewes at S6 each, the ewes were worth $36m. On the basis of 24 million lambs at 80% over 5 years valued at $4 a head there was a loss in money values of S96m. Some 144 million lb of wool was cut a year and at 30c per lb there was a loss of S43.2m, making a total loss of $271.2m. If the Government would investigate water conservation in a workmanlike manner I believe that not only would we have more wool, we would have also a far more productive and a far more profitable industry. It is useless for the Minister to say that if we do not export the rams we will not have more wool. We can have more wool; we can have more production; we can have more mea,; we can have more of everything in Australia. All that is required is for the problem of water conservation to be tackled properly. 
In coming to its decision on a previous occasion the Senate said that there should be a plebiscite of wool growers. The Government said: 'Where will we get the statistics for a plebiscite of wool growers?' Let me remind my friends on the Government side that on two occasions to my knowledge there have been plebiscites of wool growers on certain issues and there was no difficulty in determining who among the wool growers should exercise a vote. It is futile for the Government to hide behind that lame excuse. Neither did the Government have difficulty when it wanted to take a plebiscite of dried fruit growers recently. If it was able to take a plebiscite of dried fruit growers I suggest that it would be equally simple to take a plebiscite of wool growers. 
 That to be determined by regulation; that to be determined by decision of the Senate. The situation is that the Government has not tried to determine in which v/ay a plebiscite should be taken. I repeat that it has disregarded completely the decision of the Senate and has held the Senate in contempt by its actions. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  recently issued a Press release in relation to the lifting of the ban. I believe that the Press release was full of contradictions which can be shown if it is analysed critically. The Press release stated that the Minister drew attention to the competition to wool by synthetics. I remind honourable senators that to meet the challenge the wool industry produced a lighter, better quality cloth. In many instances the wool industry has received a very fine return by the inclusion of wool with many of the synthetic fibres. The Minister appeared to draw some relief to his mind by referring to the export of polwarths, which he claims are 75% merino, and of zeniths which he claims are 85% merino. This is possibly true, but the Minister failed to state that it would take perhaps generations of cross breeding to take away the heavy meat grain and the coarse wool fibre of those breeds to get them back to the fine wool aspects of pure breed merinos. The same can be said for Lincolns and Border Leicesters. So it can be seen that the Minister's statement does not stand up to close analysis. 
There are many other contradictions in the statement. For instance, the Minister said that the original decision was purely political. I remind honourable senators that even if it were political it met with the approval of everyone in Australia, and surely that is most important. The decision continued to remain political, if we care to describe it, at the express wish of the people because the people' did not move against the decision of the Government. I know that shearers and even wool growers applauded the Government's decision at that time to place an embargo on the export of merino rams. 
 Senator Prowse  says that it is a mistake but there are many peop!e in Australia who say that it is not a mistake. Let me quote from an article which appeared in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 14th April 1970, only last Friday, under the heading 'Graziers stirred to anger over merino ram ban'. 
 Mr Peter  Diegutis. For the information of the honourable senator the text of the article is as follows: 
Australian trade unions, the Federal Government and the Committee for the Retention of the Merino Ram Embargo were denounced this week for their part in the merino export debacle. 
The three-pronged criticism was made during an emotional debate at the NSW Graziers Association annual conference in Sydney. 
In an unusual chain of resolutions, the meeting first reiterated its traditional opposition towards exporting merinos from Australia. lt then reproached the retention committee and the trade unions for the way in which they prevented the rams from going overseas. 
Finally, the meeting chided the Federal Government for not backing up its decision to permit export sales by enforcing delivery. 
Debate on the question of re-introducing the embargo on merino exports revealed some difference of opinion among delegates. 
A resolution, moved by  Mr M.  M. Clark, of Warialda, called on the Association to seek re-introduction of the embargo, lt was carried by a majority of 62 to 32. 

 Senator Prowse asks, in effect: Who is opposed to the lifting of the embargo? That surely is the answer. The article goes much further but I will not weary the Senate by reading all of it. However I will say that it criticised the unions, it criticised the Government and it criticised a lot of other people. There is one section that perhaps is worth reading. It states: 
Another councillor,  Mr A.  P. Connell, felt resentment that the Committee's action had lumped graziers together with unions, the DLP and the Communist Party. 
So, according to the graziers of Australia, the Australian Democratic Labor Party has found some new friends in the Communist Party. There are other aspects of this matter which I believe require ventilation. However time does not permit me to examine them, in the most serious mood in which I can possibly approach a question let me say that the Executive - the Government  -  rr* overridden the decision of the Senate, i.i those circumstances I believe that it has held the Senate in contempt. This is not the first occasion on which it has taken such a course of action. I trust that it will correct the error of  its ways, let the Parliament make a decision and then abide by that decision until such time as the matter is brought back to the Parliament for further consideration. My time has almost expired. I close on that note. The Executive has been rather foolish about the whole situation, lt has treated members of the Senate as though they were school children unable to make a decision on the merits of the case. I repeat that I have not yet heard one member of the Government endeavour to defend the decision of the Executive. 
Will the Minister representing the Treasurer ascertain the reasons for the delay in the delivery of bound volumes of Hansard? If shortage of staff is the reason, will the Minister indicate in which departments of the Government 
Printing Office such shortages occur and the additional number of tradesmen who would be required to be employed to eliminate such shortages? 
In entering this debate I am reminded of the adage that fools rush in where angels fear to tread. Many legal luminaries have addressed themselves to the Bill, but I bring to it no formal university knowledge. My comments will be expressed as the result of my experience in the university of life. I sincerely congratulate the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  who represents in this chamber the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes),  on his forthright and objective statement. However, 1 believe that there is an indication that there has previously been neglect in this field. That is the obvious conclusion to be drawn from the Minister's statement. I would not like to congratulate him on one section and then criticise him on another. Nevertheless, I believe that in future we should ensure that we avoid the difficult situation we are in today. Particularly in relation to the requirement for additional legislation to come before the respective Houses, no draftsmen being available. In the Minister's second reading speech he said: 
The real problem, and 1 wish to emphasise this, consists in finding and obtaining those suitable to be taught and in retaining them. 
I believe that we should take into consideration what has been done in many areas of the apprenticeship field. I speak with some experience of this matter. It has happened that lads have been apprenticed to employers without adequate facilities to train them in all ~ sections of a trade. In those circumstances, the lads involved have had their services farmed out to other employers with facilities adequate to train them in areas not open to the employers to whom the lads were indentured. In the light of that experience I am wondering whether consideration has been given to the employment of cadets, possibly articled to the Parliament. In some areas where wider training in the law was available they could be farmed out to legal practitioners. I offer that suggestion because I know that this system has worked extremely well in the apprenticeship field. I commend to the Minister the thoughts expressed by  Senator Murphy. 
The Minister will appreciate from his own training and long experience in the political field that there are times when individual members of Parliament have problems with the drafting of Bills. We have heard today that some aspects of this Bill could require scrutiny. Rather than debate the matters in the respective Houses, I believe that if we had a draftsman available to us with whom we could consult on some aspects of the Bill it would make for a much more objective discussion in the House when the Bill was presented. 
J am referring to ali Bills. 1 have some thoughts on some aspects of this Bill which 1 believe could be drafted more satisfactorily to give better expression to what is intended. However, that is only my opinion. If I had the opportunity of consulting a draftsman who perhaps had been  seconded to the Senate he might be able to convince me quite easily that my thoughts were wrong, but on the other hand 1 might be able to convince him that there was some merit in what I proposed. I believe that we must give thought to how we can recruit people to this position which, as the Minister has said, is a most difficult one which requires special skills. I do not know whether 1 am right in offering this suggestion, but I do so in the hope that it will assist in some way. 1 propose that the faculties o»f law in the respective States should be encouraged to give special emphasis to some part of the work of a parliamentary draftsman. If they were to do that it would have an effect. ) have discussed this aspect with some of my legal friends in Brisbane and they have told me that during their years of learning no great emphasis was given to this aspect in their training. In those circumstances I offer 2 principal suggestions: Firstly, that a type of apprenticeship or cadetship, or whatever we may care to call it, attached to the Parliamentary Draftsman should be investigated so that we can have a continuity of people trained in this field; secondly, that the faculties of law in the respective States should be encouraged to give special emphasis to this type of training. 
ls the Leader of the Government aware of a report in today's Australian Press from Snout, Cambodia, to the effect that the town became the first Cambodian settlement of significant size to be destroyed by American arms, that American tanks smashed through the smouldering ruins unopposed after buildings had been Rattened by air strikes and that tank crews looted what remained? ls he aware that the report continues: 
One horribly maimed body of a little girl lay with 3 other civilians near a cluster of what had been shops.'? 
Do not these inhuman reports justify the action of ihe people in banding themselves together to demand a cessation of hostilities so that we may endeavour to live in peaceful co-existence with all mankind? 
 I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the fact that the S2,000m a year Australian finance industry will soon increase the consumer and credit rates it charges to the public and industry, thus adding to the financial difficulties which are being experienced by those sectors of the community? Does the Minister agree with a statement by the finance industry that these increases are due to the fact that the Commonwealth Government has deliberately pushed up interest rates to try to slow down the Australian economy? If the Minister denies the truth of that statement will be publicly denounce the finance industry and take the necesary steps to prevent the proposed steep increases in interest charges being imposed? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, by saying that on 23rd April I asked a question about certain bound volumes of Hansard not being yet available to members of Parliament and to the public. My original question had 3 ingredients - the reason for the delay, whether there was a shortage of staff and. if there was shortage of staff, whether the Minister would indicate in which departments the shortage existed so that the difficulty could be overcome. Yesterday I received a reply from the Minister but it does not answer the question. It gives some excuse for the late delivery of bound volumes of Hansard, but most certainly the second and third ingredients of my question have not been answered. Therefore, I ask: Will the Minister undertake to supply a complete answer to the question I asked of him on 23rd April about the reasons for the delay in the delivery of bound volumes of Hansard? 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
Thai leave be given to bring in a Bill for an Act to prohibit the export of merino rams. 
What if it is not acceptable? 
We are concerned not only with the individual subscriber to a medical benefits fund. We are concerned also with the health of the nation and with the availability of proper health and medical services to the nation. As  Senator Turnbull  has pointed out and as  Senator McManus  has stressed, we will face a grave dearth of general practitioners if the trends which will manifest themselves in the light of the proposed legislation are allowed to develop. That will be a tragedy for the nation. While we might have got some quick legislation we will have lost in the ultimate a good, extensive and diversified medical scheme with a ready supply of general practitioners whose proper place in the scheme of medical practice will have been accepted and embodied in the legislation. Surely those are considerations which warrant the adjournment of this legislation for only a fortnight. 
If the Government is not prepared to do that, I can only suggest that some other factor must be affecting its judgment because all the logic is behind this proposition and I would expect that we would obtain the support of the Australian Labor Party. There are only 14 days or so in question. The medical profession is on its last opportunity. It will know that and will know that if it cannot come up with agreement within its own organisation and with an acceptable proposition, then the Parliament is waiting to give its signature to the Bill substantially in its present form. 
I do not regard this merely as a battle of political tactics or something of that nature. This is essentially important. How would honourable senators feel if they were members of the federal body of the Australian Medical Association due to meet on the 1st, 2nd and 3rd June in an attempt to resolve this matter of such fundamental importance to the profession, to the patients and to Australia, and in the face of that this Parliament were not prepared to wait a fortnight to see a resolution emerge from that body? How would honourable senators feel? What would be their approach to the future organisation of the scheme? 

 Mr President, 1 appeal to the Senate with all the sincerity I can command: If the Government is unable, in spite of the reasons the DLP has outlined in its proposed amendment, to postpone the further consideration of the Bill, until the final opinion of the AMA has been discovered it should, for the additional reasons I have given - because of the importance and significance of the multiplicity of proposed amendments which we have not had time to consider - agree to report progress in Committee so that the opinion of the AMA can be discovered some 14 days hence and the proposed amendments can be considered in detail. 1 commend that suggestion to the Senate. This is the last opportunity this Parliament will have to launch a health and medical scheme which will be accepted by all sections of the Australian community. 
I support the amendment which  Senator McManus  has proposed on behalf of the 
Democratic Labor Party. I appeal to all honourable senators to support it. If they are unable to do so, L appeal to them to agree to report progress in Committee so that this and other matters can be considered in the relaxed and detailed manner that such important considerations deserve. 1 commend  Senator McManus's  amendment to honourable senators. 
I support the amendment which was so ably moved this afternoon by  Senator McClelland.  1 believe that it is in accordance with the desires of the people of Australia. I think it is very: important always to remember that one should try to estimate and judge the views of 'the people of Australia and make one's decisions coincide with their balanced views. Firstly, I wish to deal with the appeal of the Australian Democratic Labor Party to the Senate to withhold the passage of this legislation until such time as the result of the meeting of the Australian Medical Association on 2nd and 3rd June is known. I consider that if the AMA was so concerned about having its new views reported to the Government it would have been an easy matter for it to hold a meeting at a much earlier date than 2nd and 3rd June. The situation is that the Government has turned its back on the AMA. Consequently, is there any reason to believe that the Government will support any resolution which is carried by the AMA at its next meeting? In view of our experience in relation to this legislation it is doubtful whether the Government would do so. Therefore, I can see no real merit in the argument that we should await the decision of the AMA at the meeting which is scheduled for 2nd and 3rd June. 
In relation to the amendments which the Austraiian Labor Party proposes to move in Committee, I submit with respect that ali honourable senators have had ample opportunity to determine their attitudes to the proposals. This legislation was introduced into the other place on 13th April. lt was debated for 3 days in Committee The amendments that the Australian Labor Party proposes to move in this chamber will be substantially the same as those which were moved in the other place and which were debated for 3 days. Consequently, I suggest that it is quite reasonable to assume that all honourable senators have had an opportunity to determine their own views on these matters because they should know what the Labor Party will be moving in Committee in this chamber. 1 believe that the appeal of the Democratic Labor Party fails on this ground. 
I do not propose to deal with this legislation extensively. However I believe that history will show that this legislation is one of the most tragic pieces of legislation ever to be introduced into the Parliament. There has been so much division amongst supporters of the Government, the Australian Medical Association and various pressure groups that the way in which the various provisions of the legislation has been bandied about in the countryside in argument and discussion has become really ludicrous. But the legislation is now with us and it is therefore our responsibility to try to improve it to the best of our ability. 
I am sorry that  Senator Greenwood  is not present in the chamber. I believe that his contribution to the debate tonight was so cynical as to beggar description. He has made a comparison between the proposed scheme and the free hospitalisation scheme which is in operation in Great Britain. He did not have to go that distance. He could have made a comparison between the proposed scheme and the free hospitalisation scheme in Queensland.  Senator Greenwood  relies for his information on something he has read about Great Britain's free hospital system. He came into the chamber tonight and without producing any evidence whatsoever said that people who do not pay some part of their medical costs will over-use the services provided. What if some people do over-use these services? I would suggest that they would be in the minority, anyway. What about the people who go along for free hospital services because they cannot afford to pay for the services of a medical practitioner? If a free hospital service were not available to them it is quite likely that they would become very sick indeed. If that happened they, would become a burden on the community. 
It is all very well for  Senator Greenwood  to say that everybody should pay part of his hospital expenses. The fact is that some people are in difficult financial positions and do not have the wherewithal to pay the fees of a medical practitioner. In those circumstances they become a burden on the community inasmuch as they cannot attend their work place and therefore do not receive any wages. Consequently, they have to be granted social services. Although a minority of the community may over-use the services, I believe that that minority should be overlooked in view of the fact that the people who comprise this minority can go along and receive adequate treatment which will enable them to be productive units in industry.  Senator Greenwood  said that if we had free hospitalisation, patients would be lining up before doctors or public servants and would be treated in a cavalier manner. This has not been the experience in Queensland. Honourable senators from Queensland will confirm the accuracy of my remarks. It is quite wrong for  Senator Greenwood  to make accusations against the medical profession and public servants generally and to imply that they have no interest whatever in the welfare of the people. 
I wish to address myself to some aspects of the second reading speech of the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin),  who represents the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  in this chamber. The Minister said: 
The Bill provides for the fund benefits payable by organisations to vary from State to State and consequently it will be necessary for the contribution rates charged by organisations also to differ accordingly. 
On 5th March 1970 1 asked the Minister a question in relation to this matter. My question has not been answered. I would appreciate it if the Minister, when she replies to the debate, will explain the matters I have raised in my question of 5th March. 
It is No. 86. My concern is for the worker who may be working in Queensland, South Australia, Victoria or another State and who contributes to a fund. At the request of his employer, he transfers his employment to New South Wales. Under those circumstances is he required to pay additional contributions? Is he still covered by the contribution he paid in his home State? What is the position? I asked the Minister to endeavour to answer, that question because it raises a difficulty. I will not say any more about the question, except to say that it is question No. 86 of 5th March 1970. The Minister, in her second reading speech, referred to the eligibility level for full health insurance for low income families to $42.50 per week. The Minister said: 
The Bill also provides for graduated assistance toward the costs of contributing for health insurance to families with weekly incomes not exceeding S48.50. 
At an earlier stage I indicated to the Senate that many workers were in receipt of a wage less than the amount proposed at that time. I had a table prepared indicating the minimum wage paid in all States under Federal awards. Unfortunately, the Minister elected not to allow leave to have that table incorporated in Hansard. Consequently honourable senators were unable to see that table. Nevertheless I expect that the Minister contacted the Department of Labour and National Service and had a copy of the table made available. I do not know whether that is so, but I assume that it would be so. Under the present circumstances the $42.50 does not mean a great deal because as from Friday, 15th May, the minimum rate paid under State awards in Queensland is $42.80. Honourable senators can see that the $42.50 is exceeded already. I submit that quite a number of employers pay wages over the award. If we assume that employers pay $1 a week over the award, the weekly pay would be $43.80. It is true that the Bill makes provision for some gradual process up to $48.50, but it does not need a great deal of imagination to figure out that the worker on the $42.80 base rate would not have to work a lot of overtime to take him past the highest point for which the Government caters, and that is the $48.50. Consequently, it is not easy to nominate a figure and say that X number of workers or people in the community will benefit. 
Would the Minister please explain what machinery will be used to determine the rate. Is it a weekly wage? I asked my question some time ago. Is it a pure weekly wage, being the award wage? Is it to include overtime, attendance bonuses or bonuses paid at the end of the year? Is it to include child endowment? The Minister says that most certainly this will not include child endowment. How is it to be determined? If the Government says that it will be determined on the previous 12 months earnings, that will not work because the worker will increase his weekly earnings by a decision of the court, by the generosity of the employer, by overtime or by something of that nature. Consequently it is not easy to say that the figure is $42.50. In these changing times workers will press for higher wages by on-the-job methods or through the arbitration system. Consequently it appears to me that the figure will have to be reassessed continually. I would appreciate if the Minister could give some indication of what machinery will be used to determine that $42.50 or the gross of $48.50 to which she referred in her second reading speech. 
I would appreciate- if the Minister would indicate to the Senate whether the Queensland Government is to receive the full entitlement of $2 a day for each bed occupied in lieu of the 80c a day it receives now. It appears to me that the Bill does indicate thar it will. Nevertheless, in my humble opinion, it does not say so precisely. Therefore, I would appreciate if the Minister could indicate the situation in regard to that matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it proposed that a New South Wales contributor under the Government's amended Health scheme will pay an additional IS cents a week more than, say, a contributor in Queensland. 
If such is the case, what will be the position of a Queensland worker who temporarily transfers his employment to New South Wales, for, say, a period of 3 months. 
Will such transferred worker be required to pay the additional 15 cents or will he continue to pay his normal contribution. 
Irrespective of the payment such a worker will be required to make, will the Minister ensure that his interests are adequately protected. 
The new family contribution rate to the major Queensland medical fund will he 64 cents per week. This represents an increase of 4 cents per week on the rate currently payable for the ceiling benefits in that State. New South Wales contributors will be required to pay 75 cents per week, representing an increase of IS cents per week. I should explain that the combined Commonwealth and fund benefits will be based on the most common fees charged by doctors in each State. The common fees are generally higher in New South Wales than other Stales, hence the necessity for the higher contributions. 
, (3) and (4) The Government fully recognises that contributors will occasionally incur medical expenses outside their own States. Accordingly, the new medical benefits arrangements will provide that, where a bona fide resident of any State receives a medical service in another State where the most common fee for that particular service is higher than in his home State, medical benefits will be paid at the rate applicable in the other State and higher contributions will not be required. Bona fide residence will be the key factor in such cases. 
I do not wish to interfere in the points that have just been discussed. 1 want to touch on another aspect. I will say in the first place that I do not care what is said by the Australian Dental Association, the Australian Medical Association or anybody else. This Bill is before us and we have to analyse it. It is of no use for the Minister or anybody else to say that we have to listen to the views of the Australian Dental Association later and we may bring in some further amendments. That is no good. Surely we have to know what is before us today. We have to analyse what is in the Bill. I find it most difficult to appreciate that a Bill of this magnitude should come before us without, shall I say, proper consideration by the people responsible. 
Apparently they are neither working nor parties. I am not trying deliberately to misinterpret what the Minister has said. My understanding of what she has said is that if an oral surgeon performs his duties in a public hospital the patient qualifies. 
I will use the words of the Bill: 'in an operating theatre of an approved hospital'. 
I would like to make a brief observation in support of the amendment. The Minister, in her second reading speech, referred to the adjustments that may be necessary. I think this sentence is a very important one: 
Such adjustments may be necessary as more comprehensive data, collected over a longer period, comes to hand regarding fees commonly charged by doctors; mainly in regard to medical procedures infrequently carried out. 
Those words contain a lot of qualifications which indicate that the scheme may not be reviewed as regularly as it should be. 
The Parliament should decide Chat. 
I agree with the period of 2 years and I will give the Committee my reasons. I cannot understand the Government's reluctance to accept this amendment. It has been pointed out - and it is my understanding of the Bill - that clause 9 (2.) specifies a period at which the regulations shall cease to be in force. It is 1 year and 16 days after the commencing date on which the regulations were notified in the Commonwealth 'Gazette'. The implementation of clause 9 (2.) would create a void. Nothing else in the Bill determines when or how the scheme will be reviewed. We believe that there is nothing magical about the 2-year period. Nevertheless, we believe that a specific period should be stated. As far as we can ascertain, it would be to the advantage of all concerned if the period were the 2 years as indicated in the amendment. 
I think that the supporters of the Government are confused about the interpretation of this amendment. That is the difficulty that is presenting itself today. Quite frankly, I do not think honourable senators opposite know what we mean. 
I will tell you. Before 1 do that, some honourable senators opposite have injected into the discussion - why I will never know - suggestions about trade unions. Honourable senators opposite have said that trade unions are compulsory organisations. I remind honourable senators opposite that every piece of arbitration legislation and every set of trade union rules makes provision that a member can resign his membership of the union. 
Do you dispute what I say? That is in every set of rules in the Commonwealth. Honourable senators opposite should not try to inject into the discussion something about trade unions because obviously they know nothing whatever about them. The amendment seeks to provide that the person who has paid, through his income tax, should receive the Commonwealth benefit. If I am in a fund I can claim substantially the amount which the doctor charges. If I am not in a fund, I pay the full amount which the doctor charges. But I have already paid, by way of income tax, the basic Commonwealth benefit. How can the Commonwealth get the money to pay these benefits, other than by taxation? So I, as an individual who elects not to join a fund, am paying twice. I have already paid through my income tax and I have to pay the amount which the doctor charges. Is that fair? Honourable senators opposite have suggested, or have tried to create the impression, that by this amendment we seek to provide that everybody must receive the total benefit, whether he is a member of a fund or not. That is not correct, and I wish to put the record straight. A person who elects not to join a contributory fund has already paid the basic Commonwealth benefit by way of income tax. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is it customary for public servants, who are charged with neglect of duty, etc., to be charged under the provisions of the Crimes Act; if so, arc there not other measures that could be used rather than action taken under the Crimes Act. 
-I have been stirred into rising by the Minister's final remarks. Why would men of eminence refrain from serving on a committee because their names were published in the Commonwealth Gazette? There can be no substance in that argument or in the argument about pressures upon them. The fact is that every doctor in Australia is pressured by the drug companies trying to sell him their wares. The names of men serving on health, industrial and commercial committees are known to the community at large, lt is true that pressures are exerted on those men. I speak with some authority as a member of the executive of an apprenticeship committee. My name and the names of my colleagues are published in the Government Gazette, lt is true that pressure comes from certain directions, but the members of committees have to determine the correct attitude to be adopted to a particular problem. I believe that there is no substance whatever in the altitude adopted by the Minister. 
Silting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the silting I addressed my remarks to the pressures that are applied to members of committees. I think it would be an acknowledged fact of life that pressures of all descriptions are applied to members of committees, lt would not matter what walk of life one chose, one would find this to bc the case. Therefore it seems to me to be completely illogical for the Government to say that it cannot accept the amendment- moved by  Senator McClelland  because pressures might be applied to members of the Committee. Who knows whether the pressures that would be applied io the members of the Committee will be to the advantage of the Committee, of the health services or of Australia generally? For that reason I believe it is wrong for the Government to continue to adopt the attitude that it cannot accept the amendment. I am surprised that the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  (Senator McManus)  expressed opposition to the amendment. He would know of the pressures that are applied in the trade union movement. If one takes the pressures a step further than the trade union movement 
Yes, but you have not seen the light yet. That is to your disadvantage. It would be to your disadvantage that you have not seen the correct light. 
If we take the matter a step further, if the Government does not want to publish the names because pressure will be applied why would it publish widely the names of persons appointed as conciliation Commissioners? To me it is completely illogical. 
The Minister may have her thoughts on this matter. If she does not know what goes on in other spheres of life, that is her misfortune. The fact remains that pressures are applied in every walk of life. Honourable senators would he in exactly the same position. Pressure groups do see honourable senators to  present  a point of view, lt is for honourable senators to determine whether they should accept the point of view presented to them. They should make up their own minds and determine whether it is a good point of view in the interests of Australia or otherwise. 
 Senator 
McClelland enters another realm. That would be exactly the same position. I repeat that it is futile for the Minister io hide behind the excuse that pressures would be applied to members of the Committee if their names were known. This happens in every walk of life. I repeat that I have some personal knowledge of the profession to which the Minister referred. Salesmen representing respective drug companies canvass the medical profession to seek support for the commodity they promote. They apply pressures. Under those circumstances J would hope - possibly a faint hope - that the Democratic Labor Party would change its attitude to the amendment and that honourable senators generally would vote in accordance with the wish expressed by the amendment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
In view of the allegations, made by the  Chairman  of the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council, that the Department of Health deliberately misinterpreted Cabinet decisions and that this has finally resulted in the abandonment of plans for the Calvary Hospital in the Australian Capital Territory, will the Minister make a full statement on the matter to the Senate. 
The allegations made by the  Chairman  of the A.C.T. Advisory Council concerning alleged deliberate misinterpretation of Cabinet decisions about the Calvary Hospital project are not based on fact. The Department of Health cannot and does not vary the substance of Government commitments. When the Government first made a commitment on the Calvary Hospital in October 1966 it was on the basis of a hospital up to 200 beds in size with the capital cost subsidised by the Commonwealth on a S3 for SI basis up to a ceiling contribution of S3 million by the Commonwealth with the Little Company of Mary to provide up to $1 million. The Commonwealth was to provide a maintenance subsidy with debt service charges accepted as part of maintenance costs. At least 60 beds were to be available by 1970. 
After a year of planning and negotiation the hospital architects advised that the estimate for a 200-bed hospital of appropriate standard was $5.5 million. Various alternatives within the Government's agreed level of commitments were discussed between the Department of Health and the Little Company of Mary. The Department of Health could not, of course, vary the level of Government commitment. In December of 1967 the Church authorities approached the then Prime Minister about the Government's level of. commitment to the Calvary Hospital project and in January of 1968 the then Prime Minister replied to the effect that the Government was prepared to provide assistance for the construction of a 200 bed hospital at a capital cost comparable to that which would be incurred by the Government if it were itself directly providing the facilities. This undertaking by the Government was a variation of the original offer to provide assistance on $3 for SI basis up to a ceiling contribution by the Government of $3 million for a hospital of up to 200 beds. The ceiling figure under which the early planning of the hospital was carried out was, in effect, removed and a new comparative basis was introduced in regard to cost. Planning by the Church authorities was recommenced on this new basis. 
After planning had proceeded for another year, two factors were reported by the Department of Health to be causing concern. These were that, because of delays in architectural matters the possible timetable for construction of Calvary Hospital was apparently falling behind, and that the estimated costs of Calvary Hospital had again increased. In November of 1968 the hospital architects had advised that the estimated cost stood at $7,287 million. Negotiations ensued revolving around time and cost estimates. The cost estimates for Calvary Hospital were higher than the estimates of the costs which would be incurred if the Government were to build the hospital itself. The design of the hospital was judged by both the Department of Works and the Department of Health to be uneconomic, largely because the services designed into it were apparently sufficient for close to a 300-bed rather than a 200-bed hospital. After discussions and explorations of means of maintaining the project, it became apparent that further Government decisions were needed to resolve the matter. 
The facts of the situation were placed before the Government in December 1969. A decision was subsequently made by the Government that stage two of the Woden Hospital should be expedited as the most practical early means of obtaining additional hospital beds for the A.C.T. and that the construction of Calvary Hospital should be deferred. Further discussions have now taken place with the Little Company of Mary with a view to the construction in Canberra of a 300-bed hospital to be built to the Order's plans. The Government is willing to provide, as previously, substantial financial assistance, and to have the project under construction in 1974. The Government has not abandoned the project. 
In addressing myself to this Bill I propose to be brief because I believe that sufficient has been said in applauding its provisions to indicate that honourable senators generally are in support of the measure. I believe that all honourable senators would support anything which will assist the country people of Australia - not only in Queensland. Most certainly this measure should assist the people of Queensland. However, at this stage I defy anybody to say which people in Queensland will derive benefit from this power station. We have heard a lot of airy-fairy talk about who will use power from the station. We have heard it suggested that the power house will have insufficient output to meet the requirements of that area in 10 years time. But at this stage I am unaware of anything positive which has been put before the people of Australia to say who will be the users of this power. I believe that it is wrong for the Commonwealth and the State of Queensland to enter into an agreement of the magnitude of the one referred to in the Bill and expect this Parliament merely to rubber stamp it. 1 concede that it would be necessary for the Commonwealth and State governments to negotiate on a project of this nature, but I believe that it is wrong that we in this place should have put before us an agreement which has been signed, sealed, and delivered, as a result of which any criticisms of the agreement that we may care to make would be futile. Nevertheless, let me say at this point that 1 object strenuously to the amount of interest that it is proposed to charge for the loan made under this Bill. It must be remembered that the money to be advanced comes from the people of Australia. I cannot for the life of me see why the Commonwealth Government should charge interest at the rate of 6.4% per annum. The interest alone will require a considerable amount of repayment to the Commonwealth 
Government. I do not believe that the Commonwealth Government should treat the States in this way. If interest is to be charged I suggest, with respect, that it should be no more than a service charge for the services which are being rendered. lt must be remembered that the States make up the Commonwealth. I reiterate that for the life of me I cannot see why interest at the rate of  6.4%  should be charged. This will impose a crippling burden on the people of Queensland and to a substantial extent will nullify the value of the measure. Clause  3  of the agreement states: 
The Commonwealth shall not be required to make any payments under this agreement unless and until the State produces evidence satisfactory to the Minister that the Slate has entered into or proposes to enter into agreements, arrangements or options for the consumption of electrical power by organisations which will have in the aggregate a total requirement of installed generating capacity of approximately 600 megawatts of the proposed capacity of the said thermal station. 
Can anybody say that they have been told who will qualify under that clause? It is true that negotiations between a State Government and overseas consortiums must be to some extent of a confidential nature, but I believe that when we are spending substantial amounts in this way the people of Australia should have some knowledge of whether the requirements of that clause have been complied with. So far  1  have not read anywhere of the requirements of that clause being met. 
I revert now to the fact that this agreement was signed on 8th April  1970.  It now comes before the Parliament, apparently merely so that we may approve of it and so that the Parliament can put its rubber stamp on the agreement. Whether we agree or disagree, we have had no opportunity to criticise any parts of the arrangement. I, for one, would have been most critical of the agreement if, before it was signed, it had come before us stating that interest at the rate of  6.4%  was to be levied on the people of Queensland for the loan of this money.  1  can instance other cases - one was the Mount lsa railway project - where the people of Queensland have been taken for a ride by the Commonwealth Government. I do not believe that the Federal Government should take advantage of the weakness of negotiators on behalf of a State government. If a State government has not the capacity to negotiate properly, fairly and equitably, then it is not the function of the Federal Government to commit the State to liabilities of this nature. Again, it is most unfortunate that today - when this measure is before the Parliament - we read in the Press that members of the Queensland Cabinet have been issued with preferential shares. Like other honourable senators I am not suggesting anything sinister in that allocation of those shares but  1  say, with respect, that it is a most indiscreet action for Cabinet Ministers who have the inside running with these measures - they know the prospects of this power house - to be dabbling in shares associated with this company. 
As far as I know, no, but if members of the Labor Party did then I am most certain that they would not be privy to what has gone on in the negotiations between the  Deputy  Premier of Queensland and the overseas people who will use this power station. Most certainly they would not be privy to the negotiations that have gone on between the Queensland Cabinet and Comalco, one of the principals in this power station scheme. So do not, for goodness' sake, bring anything connected with politics into it. The fact remains, and I defy anybody to say anything lo the contrary, that no Cabinet Minister should be dabbling in shares of this nature whilst this measure is before the Parliament. If honourable senators say anything to the contrary then, as usual, they are denying their own Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  because he is the very one who said: 'No member of my Cabinet will have anything to do with the shares of this company.' So if  Senator Webster  likes to continue to deny his own Prime Minister he is at liberty to do so. That is the state of disarray in which they find themselves today so we will not quarrel with it. However, for the purpose of the record I believe it should be made known precisely what has been alleged in the Press as to the number of shares held by Ministers of the Queensland Government. 
In the first place, the Queensland Treasurer and  Deputy  Premier,  Mr Chalk,  has been allotted  1,500  shares.  Dr Gregory  Gordon Chalk, his son, received  300  shares; 

 Mrs Ellen Clare Chalk received 500 shares and Miss Meredith Clare Chalk received 200. That is all tor the  Deputy  Premier of Queensland and his family, but it goes much further than that because he is not the only one in the Cabinet who is involved. The other Queensland Cabinet Ministers to receive shares include the Minister for Industrial Development.  Mr Campbell,  700 shares; the Minister for Works and Housing,  Mr Hodges.  1.200 shares - I think he is also the Minister-in-Charge of Police; the Minister for Conservation, Marine and Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Hewitt,  1,200 shares; the Minister for Local Government and Electricity,  Mr Rae.  1,500 shares: and the Minister for Health,  Dr Tooth,  1,200 shares. Thar is a fairly substantial parcel of shares that has been allocated to members of the Queensland Cabinet but apparently the  Deputy  Premier,  Mr Chalk,  sees absolutely nothing wrong with that because when he was approached for a comment he said: No comment. That is my business'. With respect to Cabinet Ministers I suggest that as he is the  Deputy  Premier of Queensland it is the business of the people of Australia and not his personal business. 
 They may all have got them. Perhaps they have not had time to go through the share listings. We have indicated that we are not opposing this measure. However. I believe there is room for criticism and 1 have indicated that because of the percentage of interest that is being charged by the Commonwealth Government to the State Government the people of Queensland will eventually pay a substantial sum of money in interest charges. Let me conclude on the note that I hope that with all this talk of big business from the United Stales of America and other parts of the world establishing industries surrounding this power station those responsible for the power station will not forget the little people of Queensland. In the outback and in the more remote areas of Queensland they are called upon to pay extortionate electricity charges. They pay considerably more than anyone anywhere else in Australia and I trust that as a result of this measure they will receive the benefit of much more economical electricity charges. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Air. Has the investigation into the 20 18-galIon kegs of beer requisitioned for the sergeants mess at the Amberley Royal Australian Air Force Base and subsequently loaded at the Castlemaine Perkins Ltd Brewery by a private vehicle and delivered to the Grand Hotel at Labrador, in Queensland, during the period of an industrial dispute between the proprietor of that hotel and the Federated Liquor Trade Employees Union been completed? If the investigation has been completed will the Minister furnish the investigators' report to the Senate? 
I address my question to the Minister representing tha Minister for the Army. Is it a fact that 20 18-gallon kegs of beer left the Army base at Enoggera in Brisbane during the currency of a recent industrial dispute? Is it also a fact that these kegs of beer were transported to the Grand Hotel, Labrador, by Army vehicles? Have the empty kegs been returned to the base or to the Castlemaine brewery? Was an inquiry commenced into this incident? If so, with what results7  ls action proposed io investigate the operations of the Australian Services Canteens Organisation, which controls the supply of liquor to defence establishments, to ensure that similar actions are not permitted in the future? 
I rise quite reluctantly to speak on the motion for the adjournment because I know of the pressure of business that is on the Senate. However, I believe that the matter that I wish to raise is one of urgency which requires an investigation by the Government. If my analysis of the situation is correct the matter to which I propose to refer shows the complete insincerity of the Government towards the people of Australia. I refer to the fact that it is quite easy for Government supporters to parade their virtues and to support campaigns which say: Buy Australian made goods; spend your money in Australia and it will have a boomerang effect. But then we see that a book of 1 ,029 pages which was recently published by a Government department has been printed in Hong Kong. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has sponsored the printing of a book entitled The Insects of Australia', the imprint of which states: 
First published' 1970 
Printed in Hong Kong by Dai Nippon Co. (International) Ltd. . . .  lt goes on to state that the colour plates were printed in Australia. Of the 1.029 pages in ihe book, the 10 pages of colour prints were printed in Australia, the remainder of the book being printed outside Australia. This work could quite easily have been done in Australia by competent tradesmen. I charge the Government with insincerily, because it parades as its thoughts that Australians are particularly good workers who have very high standards of skill, lt tells employers that it is doing a wonderful job for Australia in promoting private industry. But behind the backs of the workers and the employers one of the Government's own departments has work done in Hong Kong that could have been done quite adequately in Australia. If 1 may say so, the work, if dons in Australia, would have been superior to that which we see in this publication. 
Where is the sincerity of a government which allows one of its own departments to take from workers in the printing industry in Australia approximately, on my conservative estimate, 25,000 man hours of work? If that is an indication of sincerity 1 have yet to be shown what insincerity is. 1 believe that the Government can quite easily be charged with insincerity for its action on this occasion. Not only is it insincere to its own thoughts and expressions about assisting Australia through trade promotion but also it is insincere in its treatment of the workers in the printing industry who have assisted the Government. People in the printing industry have gone out of their way to find employment for migrants who have worked in the printing industry in other parts of the world. When they have come to Australia employment has been found for them. 1 repeat what 1 have said on other occasions, that officers of the Department of Immigration will say that if they had from other industries the same co-operation in finding employment for migrants that they have had from the printing industry their task would have been much easier. But what thanks do those in the industry receive for co-operating with the Government? We find that the work involved in printing this document of 1,029 pages has been stolen from the workers in the printing industry in Australia and given to a printing firm in Hong Kong. 
lt would be at least 3,000 man days, at  a  conservative estimate. 1 do not want to talk in terms of international competition in private industry, but a further aspect to this question is that the Japanese firm is operating in Hong Kong and perhaps is depriving Japanese people of work. The Japanese trade union movement has been fairly active in endeavouring to improve the wages of workers in Japan. 1 believe that it was a most insincere action by a Commonwealth department to take from good Australian workers work which could have been done quite adequately in Australia. If the Government referred some of the work in the book to practical printers it would find that it is substandard. 1 suggest that if a third or fourth-year apprentice in the printing industry in Australia were to execute work of this nature he would be criticised by his employers. I believe that the Government can be charged seriously with insincerity, for the reasons 1 have stated. I trust that the Minister will see that an inquiry is held into this matter to ascertain why a department of the Commonwealth has allowed work of this nature to go to Hong Kong when it could have been performed in Australia by Australians. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise make the necessary inquiries to determine whether the imprint on the second edition of the book 'Australia's Heritage' is authentic or whether the book was actually printed in Hong Kong and then transported by ship to Australia? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for National Development make urgent inquiries to ascertain the reasons why orders for steel placed by Queensland firms with Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd are only approximately 50% fulfilled, the result being a diminution of job opportunities for workers in the metal trades in Queensland? 
Itrust that history will not record that the introduction of this measure was simply another case oftoo little too late'. The combating of droughts which occur in Queensland is something that must be tackled seriously. Indeed, the same could be said aboutthe droughts which occur in other parts of Australia. I do not think it isto the credit of a lot of peoplethat there has been so much procrastination in relation to this scheme. When one bears in mind the loss in sugar production which has been sustained by Bundaberg and its surrounding areas in the last 3 years as a result of drought one can quite readily appreciate that the amount of money involved in this grant could have been spent 3 times over and Australia would still have been in a better position financially than it is at present. Bundaberg and its surrounding areas rely substantially on the sugar which is produced there. The last 3 crushings in this area have been negligible. As a result, all industry and commerce in the area - indeed, in Queensland - have suffered. Had this proposed scheme been embarked upon some years earlier this area would not have suffered the loss which it has suffered. Indeed, the people who live in Bundaberg and its surrounding areas would not have been placed in the disastrous position in which they are placed at present. 
In his second reading speech the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  who represents the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  in this chamber, pointed out that the Queensland Government submitted its original water conservation programme to the Commonwealth for consideration in 1967. However, it was not until 1970 before any final conclusion was reached on the outcome of its proposals. Apparently the Commonwealth Government is not entirely satisfied that it has been provided with the necessary information. Either that is the Commonwealth's attitude or it has procrastinated on the issue because, as I said earlier, this venture was put forward by the Queensland Government in 1967. If the Queensland Government did not provide the Commonwealth Government with the necessary material on which the Commonwealth Government could make a decision then the Queensland Government was at fault. However, if it did make the necessary material available to the Commonwealth, I believe that the Commonwealth must stand condemned for the fact that it has been tardy in introducing a scheme of this nature. 
The inclusion of clause 7 highlights the fact that the Commonwealth is not sure that all the available information has been relayed to it. Clause 7 provides that the 
State is not entitled to financial assistance under the Act: 
where the Minister has requested the Slate to furnish information in relation to the design or construction of the work - unless the State has duly furnished that information; 
Surely we could have reasonably expected that in a period of 3 years the information would have been available. In those circumstances I suggest that the amendment proposed by  Senator Keeffe  is most appropriate and should be accepted by the Government in order that all the material may be available to the Senate. 
Dramatic changes have occurred in numerous industries since the fifties. In the field of the professions, dramatic changes have occurred also. In the field of medicine heart transplants and kidney transplants have taken place. Many attempts have been made to arrest the dreaded disease cancer. Progress is being made in that direction. In the field of science, astronauts are travelling to the moon. In industry generally, computers are used widely. Everything is changing. We hope that these changes will be to the advantage of mankind generally. It always appears to me that, in matters such as workers compensation, no change is envisaged. In this regard, we seem to run along in the same pattern. This has been evident in the workers compensation field over many years. We increase the amounts of compensation and we patch up the scheme here and there, but we never seem to get to what I believe is the real problem in workers compensation. That is an attempt to provide the worker with his full weekly wage whilst he is on compensation. 
When all is said and done, no worker wishes to be on workers compensation. He injures himself in the course of his employment. As a result, he suffers financial loss. He injures himself in endeavouring to provide profits for his employer and in assisting Australia in industry generally. 
As a result of his efforts in that direction he is rewarded not with the wage that he would customarily attract but with a substandard wage. With all the changes taking place in the world today I wonder whether anybody gives serious consideration to the family that is living on workers compensation. I suggest to the Government that it give serious consideration to this aspect of an injured worker s plight. I know that many people will say that some workers will malinger. It is true I. suppose that a percentage will malinger, but I think it is generally accepted that the Australian worker is a decent honest citizen and is anxious to work. Anyone who has been on workers compensation will know that after a week an injured person usually finds himself moping around the home and is anxious to get back to work. 
Despite al'l the dramatic changes taking place in industry generally, in the professions and in the field of science and education, we do not seem to be able to reach the stage of providing full wages for a worker who has been injured in the course of his employment. It is a strange anomaly that when a worker is sick he is provided with his full weekly wage. He is guaranteed under the law of the land that for a certain period during the year, depending upon the conditions of the award or industrial agreement under which he works, he will receive the full wage while he is sick. But under the workers compensation legislation an injured person is regarded as a second class citizen. In the vast majority of cases the injury is not the fault of the injured man. I do not accept the view that workers are usually at fault when accidents occur to them. My experience is that the majority of accidents which result in a worker going on workers compensation are due to negligence. Quite frequently employers are not aware of the dangers existing in their workshops. If employers looked around more carefully they would see inherent dangers in some work practices. lt should be accepted that a worker does not go on compensation by choice. He does so in the main because of some untidy housekeeping in the place in which he works, lt appears to me to be rather cynical that we should provide an injured worker with a wage considerably less 'han that which he ordinarily earned, lt is all very well to say that he should get X dollars a week. But a worker today obtains considerably more than his set weekly wage. In a lot of instances a worker is provided with over-award payments. If he is a shift worker he receives extra mon:v for shift work. If he works on a Saturday or on a Sunday he is paid a weekend penalty rate. This extra money that goes into the home is not taken into consideration when compensation for an injured worker is determined. Consequently he is in a fairly difficult financial position when he is injured in the course of his employment. 
 I will come to thai point in a moment. 
 The honourable senator may hold that opinion but I am speaking of the average run of the mill Australian worker who accepts one form of employment only. He is the one with whom I am concerned at the moment. With regard to the Commonwealth employee the same situation exists as for an employee in outside industry. Many workers do not take their full sick leave entitlement. I believe that a pool should be established in which the money for sick leave entitlement could be accumulated. Then, when an employee fell sick, he could avail himself of the funds in that pool. The balance in that pool could be used to assist in building up the standards of workers compensation generally. I offer that suggestion to the Government. I believe that it will be readily acknowledged that, whether a person works in private industry or is employed by the Commonwealth, he is in a most serious financial difficulty when he is on workers compensation. 
 Many awards have cumulative clauses but frequently at the completion of an employee's working life he forgoes a vast amount of sick pay entitlement. He receives nothing when he leaves and the employer is the one. who benefits. This Bill provides that the dependants of a deceased worker shall receive SI 2,000. That amount may appear on the surface to be fairly substantial but on an analysis that is not so. It means tor example that upon the death of a breadwinner who was in receipt of $6,000 a year, the wife is entitled to only about 2 years' salary. After those 2 years she has to fend for herself. Notwithstanding all the mental strain and anguish caused by the death of her husband she is faced at the end of 2 years with the difficulty of sustaining herself and perhaps her children. Anyone who can envisage the feelings of the widow in those circumstances will agree that §12,000 is not a generous amount. Only the other day a Bill was passed in this place which provided for §30,000 to be paid to the dependants of a person killed in an aircraft accident. 
 lt does not matter if it is a maximum. The §12,000 provided  in  workers compensation is the minimum and the maximum and the fact remains that whereas upon the death of one worker the dependants are entitled to §12,000,  on  the death of another the dependants are entitled to a maximum of $30,000. 1 do not believe that is a fair and equitable distribution of the wealth of this nation. 
The farmer elects to run his own business and that is  a  matter for him. Nobody can do anything about it. He can enter industry and be covered by the same provisions which apply to workers generally. If the honourable senator suggests that something should be done for farmers, I remind him that his Party has been in office for a long time and, so far as I am aware, has not done anything in that direction. I do not wish to get on to the subject of workers compensation generally but  I  believe there is an ingredient creeping into workers compensation that is not to the advantage of all. I refer to the fact that some employers are very safety conscious and, as a result, some insurance companies provide them with a bonus if none of their employees go on workers compensation during the year. This can be a dangerous proposition. I hope that this will not occur  in  respect of the Commonwealth employees compensation legislation. 
1 support the amendment moved by  Senator Bishop.  My remarks will be very brief. It appears to me that the Government is set for a confrontation with the trade union movement. The Government will not listen to anything that will be said in relation to this Bill because it is determined to push it through. Nothing is more certain than that there will be a confrontation with the trade union movement. 
 if you had said Amen' a bil more frequently you might not be in the condition that you are in tonight. I ask the Minister to look at the clauses of the Bill. There does not appear to be any right of appeal in them. A man can be charged and his case heard but he has no right of appeal. 
Just listen to Little SL Echo. He believes that he has all the time in the world at his disposal. He breaches an agreement to speak for about 30 minutes by speaking for about 40 minutes, then he supports a motion to gag the debate and now he questions something I have said. 
1 can do very well without your help. 1 ask the Minister to answer the question that I have raised in all seriousness, notwithstanding the inane interjections of  Senator Gair  and  Senator Little. 
I again appeal to the Minister to consider the elimination from this legislation of any provision requiring that fines imposed in the past must be paid. I remind the Minister that we are considering the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Tonight we have heard a great deal of talk to the effect that arbitration is at the crossroads, that something is wrong with arbitration. Of course something is wrong. Workers will not accept the fact that their leaders are to be fined under the provisions of an amended Act that has had so much publicity. Their leaders are to be asked to pay fines that have been imposed previously. 
If the Minister believes the workers will accept that state of affairs he is sadly mistaken. A fairly snide reference was made tonight to  Mr Hawke,  the new  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. However, when the ACTU decided to advise the unions not to pay any fines imposed under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act the  President  of that body was  Mr Albert  Monk. I am sure that the people who offer the criticism of  Mr Hawke  that he is too militant would not say the same of  Mr  Albert Monk, lt has been suggested tonight that the influence of  Mr Hawke  has caused the unions to adopt their present policy towards the payment of fines. I repeat that when the decision was made not to pay the fines  Mr Albert  Monk was  President  of the ACTU. If the Minister has any influence whatever on the Government, I ask him to do his utmost to see that the provision for payment of past fines is removed. Otherwise a confrontation with the trade union movement generally will occur. The ACTU has made its decision and is bound by that decision. At the last meeting of the Interstate Executive of the ACTU that body reaffirmed its resolve that the lines would nol be paid. In the name of conciliation and in the name of peace in industry I ask the Government not to pursue ils present policy which I believe will be disastrous for arbitration generally. The penal provisions should not be in the Act, and to continue to permit them to be applied will, to my way of thinking, be disastrous for industry and for arbitration. Some honourable senators have been saying tonight that there is something wrong with the arbitration system. Of coursethere are things wrong with the arbitration system, and I suggest that it is because of these things that union leaders have been fined for doing something that union members have told them to do. 
Leaders of trade unions are fined. Of course they can be fined. 
You are looking at . one now. I have been fined. 
1 am not proud of this, but neither am I sorry. The members of my union at a general meeting told me to do something and I did it. I am proud of the fact that I observed the direction given to me by members of the union. 
I was fined as an officer of the union. If there is anything wrong with arbitration today it is because conciliation is being cluttered up with the legal fraternity. I regret that I am digressing, but  Senator Greenwood  introduced this matter. If 1 may give an example, I once saw the Industrial Court sit for 2 days before it realised that a prosecution had been taken under the wrong section of the Act. In that case 2 barristers, instructed by solicitors, argued the merits and demerits of the case for 2 days. The cost of those proceedings- 
I could not say how much it cost, but if 1 am not mistaken the cost was in the vicinity of £800 at that time. How can anyone justify that? 
If the Minister said that the legal fraternity was hungry ( might agree. The situation is that the workers will just not tolerate the present state of affairs. If arbitration is to succeed I suggest that we must get away from the Nolans and Cohens and other barristers. I have heard employers referring to opinions by Nolan and Cohen, but they would not know what arbitration was about. If there is any dispute as to what I say in that regard, let me remind honourable senators that I am fortified in my opinion by none other than  Sir Henry  Bland. Honourable senators will find in the records that when  Sir Henry  was with the Department of Labour and National Service in 1967 he warned the Government that the white collar unions were becoming restive and that there would be serious difficulties because those unions knew that they were going to face the same consequences as the blue collar workers. But the Government took no notice of him. At that time he went on to say that there was too much of the legal fraternity in the arbitration system and that the sooner we got rid of the lawyers and made arbitration the work of laymen we would be so much better off, because we would have a far greater degree of conciliation. I urge the Minister to endeavour to influence the Government to accept this amendment. If he does not, I say without fear of contradiction that there will be a confrontation with the trade union movement and it will not only disrupt industry but it could have the very effect of helping those people to whom  Senator Greenwood  referred tonight as wanting to destroy arbitration. I know that some people want to destroy arbitration but the Government's action in trying to force people to pay fines of this nature will assist those very people who want to destroy arbitration. I ask the Minister - I do not appeal to him - to give favourable consideration to what has been said. If the Government does not heed what has been said then, with due respect and I do not say it in the form of a bluff, the Government is headed for the greatest industrial turmoil Australia has seen for many years. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Is it a fact thai in Queensland there is a delay of approximately 4 months before installation and connection of telephones to private homes can be effected because of a lack of the necessary equipment? If such is the case, can the Minister advance any reasons for what appears to be such a lengthy delay? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What financial advantage is gained, by way of taxation concessions, by companies and/or professional people who invest in primary production. 
Is the investment of capital as 'tax farming' providing unfair competition for bona fide primary producers, and is this type of investment resulting in unwise use of land. 
The principal income tax concessions availableto any taxpayer engaged in primary production are: 
Accelerated rates of depreciation. 
The cost of plant and machinery, other than passenger vehicles, used wholly and exclusively for agricultural or pastoral pursuits is allowed as a deduction by equal instalments over a five year period. Similar deductions are allowable in respect of structural improvements used in a business of primary production, including improvements providing residential accommodation for employees engaged in that business, wherethe improvements are situated on land used for agricultural or pastoral pursuits. The special depreciation for residential accommodation is limited to an amount of $6500 for each employee and, where the cost of the building exceeds this amount, normal depreciation is allowed on the balance. In the case of structural improvements situated on land in the Northern Territory, the taxpayer has an additional right to have the total cost deducted in the year in which the improvement is completed. 
An investment allowance deduction on new plant 
A special deduction equal to twenty per cent of the cost of new plant, excluding road vehicles, for use in a business of primary production is allowed in the income year in which the plant is purchased. 
Deductions for specific kinds of capital expenditure. 
Broadly stated, capital expenditure relating to improving the carrying capacity or productivity of land is deductible in full in the year in which it is incurred. This includes expenditure on the eradication or extermination of pests, the clearing of land, the preparation of land for agricultural or grazing purposes, the drainage of lowlying land, expenditure relating to the conservation of soil or water and fencing to keep out animal pests. 
A right of election to spread the following receipts or profits over five income years: 
insurance recoveries on losses of livestock or trees; 
profit from sale of livestock due to compulsory resumption of land; 
profit from sale of livestock due to loss of pastures or fodder because of fire, flood or drought; 
profit from sale of livestock due to tick eradication campaign; 
profit from compensation received for compulsory destruction of livestock. 
Averaging of income. 
An individual taxpayer, but not a company, may be entitled to have his income averaged over five years for the purpose of determining the rate of tax payable for a particular year of income. 
There are many aspects to be considered in forming judgments as to what constitutes unfair competition, whether unfair competition exists, and whether land is being used wisely or not, and these are obviously not subjects on which broad generalisations can be made. Certain specified requirements have to be fulfilled by any parties seeking to obtain the various taxation concessions accorded primary producers which are set out in the preceding paragraph. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Did any miner who was in the process of negotiating a sale of tin incur financial loss when devaluation occurred; if so, to whom should such a miner make representations to determine if he is entitled to financial compensation. 
I am not aware whether any miner who was in the process of negotiating a sale of tin incurred financial loss when devaluation occurred. 
Any such miner or other exporters of tin should furnish details concerning the circumstances of their lossesto the Secretary. Department of Trade and Industry, Canberra. 
1 rise to support the urgency motion moved by  Senator O'Byrne.  Firstly  I  wish to indicate that  I  accept without reservation the challenge issued by  Senator Sim  to declare myself in support of the workers in rural industry.  I  support them without equivocation and  I  will always support them.  I  want to throw down a similar challenge. The name of  Mr Bob  Hawke has been mentioned in this chamber this evening by no less distinguished persons than the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman), Senator Young  and  Senator Sim.  I challenge them to invite  Mr Bob  Hawke to their respective States and to debate with him any subject affecting the Australian community that they choose. Are there any takers?  I  think not. 
The honourable senator's representation for the farmers and the Country Party consists of suggesting that we ban everything connected with margarine.  His  colleagues here do not support him so he is one man out. The honourable senator will bring about the downfall of his beloved Bjelke-Petersen, the Premier of Queensland, by advocating such a policy. It nearly brought about the downfall of the Queensland Government. So, the honourable senator had better go and apologise to his colleague instead of trying to take up my time on this matter. lt has been said that drought, depressed overseas markets and the cost-price squeeze are responsible for the parlous condition in which primary industry finds itself today. We could concede that those are some of the ingredients. But what has the Government done to try to overcome these problems? Let me take the matter of drought - the first one I mentioned. 1 have here an article that appeared in the Brisbane Courier-Mail' on 1st August 1969. The heading reads: "State's "pressing needs" given snub by PM'. The article states: 
The Premier  (Mr Bjelke-Petersen)  told the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  yesterday that the Stale had three pressing needs - drought aid, a new super-powerhouse and a new water conservation scheme. 
Do honourable senators know where that meeting took place? It was in a motel room. The Prime Minister did not have sufficient time to go to the Premier's office to discuss these issues which were most important to Queensland. That article will be tabled for the convenience of honourable senators, if necessary. In the same article a statement by one of the Government's beloved people,  Mr Peter  Bell, was reported as follows: 
The United Graziers Association  President (Mr C. B. Peter Bell)  yesterday described as a bitter disappointment  Mr Gorton's  reported reluctance to accede to Queensland's request for increased drought aid. 
Apparently he is in the same category as the other people whose names have been taken in vain tonight by members of the Government parties. Let them challenge  Mr Peter  Bell as to the Government's sincerity in the allocation of drought aid. Let me give one further instance. An article in today's 'Courier-Mail* carries the heading Drought Move is not Enough' and states: 
Graziers in the Maranoa shires of Bungil, Waroo, Balonne and Waggamba have threatened non-payment of rates unless they receive remissions by 1 1th September. 
If the graziers carry out their threat, the four local authorities will loose hundreds of thousands of dollars. 
So, the graziers are complaining. But when we bring on an urgency motion of this nature we are accused of employing cheap political tricks. I suggest that honourable senators opposite go and accuse their colleagues of employing cheap political tricks because they are saying exactly what we are saying. 
It has been said that the Government has plans for the future. I have before me an answer to a question on notice which was presented in this chamber today. The question asked not by one of the Australian Labor Party senators but by one of the Government senators. He asked: 
Has an appraisal been made of the detrimental effects on our dairy, meat, dried and canned fruits and other primary industries, in the event of United Kingdom entry to the European Economic Community. 
What steps are being taken to safeguard our rural export interests in the United Kingdom in such circumstances. 

 Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson presented the following reply: 
lt is not possible to assess accurately the implications that U.K. membership of the European Economic Community will have for Australia's primary industries until the terms of Britain's entry are known. The negotiations on the United Kingdom's application to join the E.E.C. are due to begin on 30th June. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry has recently left for Europe to personally assess the situation and to bring the position in relation to Australia's export interests to the attention of the British Government and to the authorities of the European Economic Community. 
There is not one word in that answer to suggest what the Government's plans are. Surely sufficient notice has been given of the more than likely entry of the United Kingdom into the European Economic Community. But there are no plans. What plans has the Government had for drought relief? lt is true that it has given some subsidies. Bui that  is  not curing the cause; that is dealing with the effects. What has it clone in providing water conservation? Its efforts in that direction have been pathetic, to say the least. The Minister for Air maydisagree with that statement. He may say to me: 'You are prejudiced'. Of course I am prejudiced. So let us take the word of an independent voice. I refer to the Rockhampton 'Morning Bulletin', which is regarded by Liberals in that area as their Bible. On Friday, 11th August 1967. that newspaper said: 
Only the political purblind in Central Queensland can fail lo see the sense in the newly announced Australian Labor Party policy on northern development, for it contains much that all political interests throughout the region have been seeking for many years. The proposed programme was announced by the member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  -  who represents in that electorate a majority of members of the Country Party -  and is clearly his brainchild. For bis work and his advocacy he deserves the fullest praise. 
The basis of the ALP policy is the retention of the Snowy Mountains Authority for investigation, design and construction of power and water projects. This has been sought from the Federal Government, with increasing urgency, by Queensland's Stale Government. 
Again it has been snubbed by the Federal Government. They have taken a motel room in which to have a talk about something. The newspaper continued:  ll has not got very far, and the Authority's dis.bandment. as a construction group, has already been foreshadowed. 
We know now that it was more than an indication. The newspaper continued: 
ALI' policy envisages the use of the Snowy Authority in the development of river systems in the Fitzroy, Burnett, Pioneer and Herbert systems, and for the steady development of other water resources in the State's pastoral areas.  1 ask  Senator Maunsell  to remember what this newspaper said: lt also lays great stress on the need for urgent supplementary programmes to give central and northern regions of Queensland the chance to attract industry, and touches on a tentative scheme of taxation relief to offer industry further financial reasons for breaking out into the provinces. 
This is, of course, a policy by a party not in power, and must be reviewed in that light, lt is nevertheless thoroughly welcome, since it is the most solid support northern development has yet been given by any parly, in power or out of it. 
This Government was in power at the time. The newspaper continued:  ll is bound to spur the Government into going at least part of (he way towards matching it, for such a clear-cut northern development policy cannot be ignored. To do so would be to court disaster in this region 
Before this, there had been no real policy issuing from Canberra relating to balanced development of the Australian tropics. The recommendations of the Stanford Report, on the total development of Australia, had been largely ignored.  and so far ss central and northern Queensland were concerned development was a matter of unrelated, piecemeal handouts. 
That describes precisely what the Government is doing in 1970. It is giving unrelated, piecemeal handouts. It is not tackling the cause of the problem; it is tackling only the effects. Until such time as the Government gels down to these very things and tackles the cause we will continue to experience the same difficulty and provide subsidies here, subsidies there, subsidies everywhere, and not cure anything. That is the problem that is with us today. Do not accept my word for what I am saying. I am using the authorities that members of the Government parties would own. In the 7 o'clock news broadcast tonight a gentleman named  Mr K.  H. Black was reported as speaking for farmers and wool growers and saying that the Government, by its Budget proposals so far as primary producers were concerned, had signed our death warrants. He said that the Government had failed to stabilise costs. I will touch on that matter shortly.  Sir Henry  Bolte followed and he was most critical of the Budget. He said that he is a country boy and he looks after the interests of country people. 
Honourable senators opposite try to attribute the blame for the cost-price squeeze to the workers. They could implement a policy lo overcome this cost-price squeeze problem, but they have not the courage to do so. All honourable senators opposite have to do is what  Mr Bob  Hawke has asked them to do, that is to introduce a system of price control. But the people who look after their interests, who provide money with which to fight election campaigns, may be affected by such a policy, and as a consequence honourable senators opposite will not introduce the policy. Notwithstanding the fact that primary industry could be down on its knees begging for some help in this direction, honourable senators opposite have not the courage to implement a policy to overcome the cost-price squeeze. I do not know whether it is their conviction, but most certainly they have not the moral courage to introduce price control. If they talk to some of their supporters and to business people in the community they will be told that price control has to be introduced. There must be price control on essential commodities so that we can overcome the difficult position in which not only primary industry but also other sections of industry are placed today. 
Let me deal with the position of country people. No-one has a higher regard for country people than I and a number of honourable senators on this side of the chamber have. I have spent nearly as much time in country areas as any honourable senator - except those honourable senators who live in country areas. I repeat that I have tremendous admiration for country people. Notwithstanding the drought conditions in Queensland today, country people cheerfully battle on. They are smiling but they cannot afford to smile. At the end of each day they say. 'Well, that is one more day over and one day closer to rain.' But rain does not come, and because of the policies enunciated by members of the Australian Country Party the day of salvation for these people will never come. 
Now I turn to the workers and to members of the business community in these country areas. If honourable senators go to these areas they will find that these people are most despondent, and quite rightly so. Shops are closing in little country areas and workers are leaving the areas. In a little town called Blackall - and I refer to that town because  Senator Maunsell  would know it very well - one can walk down the main street- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Was it an oversight that the Treasurer failed to indicate any upward adjustment of child endowment payments in the 1970 Budget? If this omission was not an oversight, can the Minister explain why an upward adjustment was not announced? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Budget stands in its own right. It represents the judgment of the Government as to what the shape of things should be in the next 12 months in terms of taxation, social service benefits, defence and the needs of all departments. The Government has introduced its Budget and accepts full responsibility for its proposals. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service knowledge of any recent instances, apart from arbitration decisions, in which demands have been made by workers for more money for less time worked? If the Minister is aware of such demands by workers, does he regard those instances as isolated or widespread? 
Can the Minister  for Housing indicate the average cost per square foot of building brick homes and timber homes for the respective State housing commissions? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. Has his attention been drawn to a statement by Professor Zelman Cowen, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Queensland, that it is disturbing to see one man or woman standing in front of 250 students for 55 minutes at a lecture? Accepting that such a statement from an authority like Professor Cowen is factual, 1 ask whether the condition referred to by him is typical of other Australian universities or whether it is in the University of Queensland alone that such unsatisfactory lecturing procedures obtain. Does the Minister agree with Professor Cowen's statement that such a state of affairs is disturbing? Will he investigate avenues to overcome the seriousness of lecturing at universities under such conditions? 
Has the attention of the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities been drawn to a statement made by the Queensland Minister for Mines,  Mr Camm,  M.L.A., that he proposes seeking the approval of the Queensland Government to enable sand mining to be undertaken at Cooloola, an area on the north coast of Queensland, where unique coloured sands are situated? If the Minister believes, as do thousands of Queenslanders, that implementation of a sand mining policy at Cooloola would be to the detriment of tourist promotion in Queensland and Australia, will he use his good offices to deny permission to mine the sand masses at Cooloola? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science been drawn to a recent statement made by the Principal of the Armidale Teachers College,  Mr A.  R. Crane, in which he is alleged to have said that a crisis in teacher education was developing throughout Australia? Will the Minister obtain the text of  Mr Crane's  address and examine its contents to ascertain the reasons prompting such a forthright and critical statement? 
On behalf of the Opposition, I indicate that we do not oppose this Bill. Nevertheless, I believe that some observations should be made in the interests of the people of Australia and of the printing industry. This bounty is not entirely satisfactory. However, I do not criticise the Government for introducing the Bill. The Government believes that this is the best way to attack the problem. It certainly will assist. Nevertheless, other measures and other means of assisting the industry could have been employed to the advantage of the Government and the industry. In that regard I mention books, copy or material sent to overseas countries to be printed. We believe that the success that this Bill will achieve by the provision of a bounty could have been achieved if a tax were placed on the film or the material sent overseas. As a result Australians would not be paying a bounty on the product, but the employer or the individual who sent the material overseas would be required to pay the tax. I offer that suggestion, as I have done previously, to the Government. 
I suggest that it would be a particularly good idea if the Minister brought into consultation the unions and the employers to ascertain whether the printing industry is being geared tq the 1970s. Quite frankly, 1 have seen adopted within the industry practices that have operated for many years. It is not only the small printer who is adopting these out of date measures; the big printers are in a similar category. 1 question whether the industry is gearing itself to the requirements of the 1970s. 1 believe that fruitful discussions could be held if the unions, the employers associations and the Minister were to meet on this aspect. The matter is not just one for the present. Apprentices are coming into the industry. They are being trained in methods that were employed when I first served my apprenticeship. These methods are not adopted in other areas of the printing industry. Consequently a lad serves his 4-year or 5-year apprenticeship and is trained in methods that are not successful in 1970. lt is true that those methods were successful when I served my apprenticeship, but they are not successful with the modern trends in printing. 1 seriously offer that suggestion to the Minister. 1 also believe that the Government should take into consideration its position in relation to books printed overseas for Government departments. I have raised this matter before. I have had no reply from the Minister. One example is a publication, issued by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, which was printed overseas and could have been printed in Australia. The situation is a most serious one. It is a serious matter when private employers are sending material overseas to be printed, but I suggest with respect that the situation is even more serious when the Government allows work, which could and should be done in Australia, to go overseas. 1 have also questioned the late arrival of copies of Hansard. I have not had the opportunity for some time to see what takes place at the Government Printing Officer in Canberra, but it appears to me that something is wrong when copies of Hansard are not available to members of Parliament for perusal. 
No, not the daily Hansard. I mean Hansard in book form. I again raise the issue on this broad basis. Something must be wrong somewhere else, as well as at the Government Printing Office. Copies of the National Service Act cannot be bought anywhere. If people want to obtain copies of that Act to ascertain their obligations or entitlements, copies should be available. Recently when I tried to buy a copy I found there was none available. I had to get photostat copies of the Act from the Records Office. I also tried unsuccessfully to buy a copy of the consolidated Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Surely copies of these Acts should be available for distribution. 
It is not only disgraceful but very embarrassing if somebody comes to my office and wants to know something about the National Service Act or the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and 1, as a member of the Federal Parliament, have to say: 'I am sorry, the Commonwealth is unable to make copies available to us*. Perhaps that is stretching the matter a little. Nevertheless, the fact remains that these publications are important documents. They are important to the people, particularly those who are involved in spheres in which the Acts operate. Copies should be readily available for the general public. I hope that the Minister will bring into consultation with him the unions and the employers to ensure that the industry is gearing itself for the 1970s. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Statistician is currently undertaking a detailed study of the feasibility of establishing sufficient comparability between State industrial accident statistics so that the national situation may be more accurately assessed? If so, can the Minister indicate the progress of such study and whether the report when completed will be made known to the Parliament before it is implemented? Can the Minister state why at this advanced stage in industrial regulation it is only now that we find that Australia-wide information in relation to industrial accidents is inaccurate for statistical purposes. 
I congratulate  Senator Douglas  Scott on his initial contribution to this Senate. I believe his maiden speech was well prepared, well presented and in my opinion it was an outstanding effort. He is worthy of the congratulations of all honourable senators for the way in which he presented his maiden speech. Having said that, I know that  Senator Douglas  Scott expects me to say that the Australian Labor Party will be trying to take his seat away from him at the next Senate election. Nevertheless, that point does not affect his contribution at this time. I support the amendment moved by  Senator Murphy,  f do so with a great deal of enthusiasm notwithstanding' what  Senator Withers  has just said. In my opinion and in the opinion of the Australian Labor Party the Budget is deceptive. The Budget is negative. Let us have a look at this first word 'deceptive*. How do we arrive at the conclusion that the Budget is deceptive? On the one hand it gives to some sections of the community supposed relief from taxation but on the other hand it increases hidden taxation to such a point that it nullifies any advantage which may appear at the initial event to be gained. Consequently in our view it is a deceptive budget. As to its being negative, I propose to address myself to that later. 
I question whether in the history of politics in Australia anyone has heard so much universal disapproval by the people of a budget. Not only are members of the Australian Labor Party condemning it: all sections of the community are condemning it. The trade union movement has condemned the Budget and supporters of the Government might say that one would expect trade unionists to do so, but it has been condemned also by the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia, the Chamber of Commerce, the Royal Automobile Club of Queensland which is a motoring association, the pensioners - most certainly they have not approved the Budget and have been trenchant in their criticism - and, last but not least, that powerful organisation in South Australia, the Young Liberals Association. There could not be a broader cross-section of the community to condemn this Budget as being unworthy of the Government of Australia. That is exactly what is being done by all sections of community. Why have they done this? 
You do not know because you do not read. You are not interested in what people say. You are not interested in people; you are interested in big business. You are not interested in trying to protect the interests of the people. If you were you would look at this Budget and see that the Country Party has put it over the Liberal Party. The Liberal Party is in isolation. These days it takes 3 parties to run the Government. It takes the Country Party, which is miles ahead of the Liberal Party these days, it takes the Liberal Party and it takes the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
I am not condemning big business. I believe that I have had as much dealing with big business as has the honourable senator or anyone else in this place. But let me deal with the subject that I am pursuing. A broad crosssection of the community has condemned the 1970 Budget because it does not meet the requirements of the 1970s. The Government is not prepared to say whether this is an inflationary Budget, nor is it prepared to say whether the country is in good physical condition and whether the Budget will assist or cause a deterioration in conditions in Australia. The Government's own publications say that the country is in a very good financial situation. The introduction to the 'Treasury Information Bulletin' No. 59 of 1970 is in these terms: 
This Bulletin presents the main statistics so far available on economic trends up to the end of 1969-70. Although the picture is far from complete it shows clearly enough that 1969-70 was a year of strong growth in both output and demand. 
How many times have we heard honourable senators on the Government side criticise the workers of Australia who produce for Australia? Surely it is the workers who produce for Australia. This document says, in effect, that the workers have done a good job for Australia yet we hear supporters of the Government say that the workers are a lot of scallywags. 1 just do not recall the term that  Senator Maunsell  used today in such a disparaging way but it was a term that was not worthy of an honourable senator. 
I hear an interjection about  Mr Hawke.  The other night I issued a challenge to honourable senators opposite to debate any issue with Bob Hawke in their electorate but they declined to do so. They all ran for cover. There was not one taker. They were all silent. There was no response from them. It is unfortunate that we should hear in this Senate - I say this seriously and I hope that honourable senators on the Government benches will listen to what I say - this form of character assassination of someone who is not here to defend himself. That kind of behaviour is not in the best interests of the community.  Mr Hawke  is doing a particularly good job for the workers and I am proud to be associated with him. He is an honourable Australian, a good Australian. Apparently the Chamber of Commerce in Perth thinks so too because the Chamber invited him to Perth today to discuss with its members, 1 have no doubt, matters of importance of which they believe he has some knowledge. 
Now I shall deal with some of the other inane interjections that have been made. There was an interjection about big business. Let me refer to Mount Isa Mines Ltd, I suppose one of the biggest businesses in Australia. Who helped to make the profits earned by Mount Isa Mines Ltd this year? Of course it was the workers. It was the combined skills of all the workers engaged by that company. Government supporters are talking now about law and order as they seem to do on the eve of an election. I ask them this question: 'Have you seen any industrial discontent at Mount Isa notwithstanding the fact that it made a profit of S54m? Have you seen the workers there demanding some part of that money?' You have not and you have never attempted to find out why in your ignorance of industrial matters. I will tell you why. Mount Isa Mines Ltd entered into an industrial agreement with the workers of Queensland, such agreement to remain in existence for 2 years. The agreement does not deny workers the right to take industrial action if they care to do so nor does it tie the company other than to honour the agreement that it has made with the workers. The company honours the agreement to the fullest extent. 
One of my misguided Country Party colleagues says that it is industrial blackmail. That indicates the stupid and infantile approach to industrialism today of honourable senators opposite. 
Even the title of the relevant Act is the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Mount lsa Mines Ltd enters willingly into conciliation and arbitration with the workers of Queeusland - it does not have to do so - yet the honourable senator made the inane remark that it is industrial blackmail. 
I could give you tons of information about the last strike if you want me to do so. I was involved in it and I know a lot about it. Had Mount Isa Mines Ltd shown the same tolerance to the workers during the strike as it does today that prolonged industrial dispute would never have taken place. 

 Senator Withers spoke about what he believed to be difficulties within the Labor Party. I wonder whether  Senator Withers  and his colleagues on the Government benches ever examine their own consciences and look closely at their own parties. I wonder how honourable senators from Western Australia -  Senator Withers  comes from that State - feel about one of their colleagues being denied endorsement recently. I wonder how honourable senators on the Government side feel about the independent member of the DLP in the 
House of Representatives, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who immediately prior to the last Federal election said: 'I have no confidence in the Prime Minister of Australia'. 
How many times has the Liberal Party endeavoured in Queensland to discipline, if you like the word, or chastise, if you prefer that word - perhaps a preferable expression is 'withdraw endorsement from'Senator Wood, because he wanted to express his views? Do not tell me that honourable senators opposite do not know about that. They are not game to face up to their responsibilities. They should look in the mirror and examine their consciences and the structure of their Party. They will find that there was far more bitter internal warfare in . their own Party than was ever in ours. I am sorry that I must speak in this way, but I am forced to do so because  Senator Withers  introduced this matter and 1 am answering on behalf of my Party.  Senator Withers  is holding up his hands in horror. He may well do so, because he has been shot down in flames. 

 Senator Withers also complained that the Opposition does not put forward financial proposals in relation to the Budget. Surely he is aware that it is the responsibility cf the Opposition to criticise the Budget, not to put forward proposals at this time. During an election campaign the parties put forward their proposals for the following 3 years. At the last Federal election an overwhelming number of voters endorsed the proposals put forward by the Australian Labor Party.  Senator Withers  should realise the stupidity of his criticism. 
Government supporters claim with a great deal of pride that they believe defence is imperative for Australia. They say that we must do everything to ensure that our defence is paramount, but actions speak louder than words. Notwithstanding increased costs and the effects of inflation, and the claim by Government supporters that pegging workers' wages will prevent price increases - those price increases have occurred - the appropriation for defence in this Budget has been increased by only 3.1 per cent over last year's defence expenditure. Taking into consideration the inflationary spiral of the last year, defence expenditure is actually to be reduced in this Budget. 
I say in all seriousness to Government supporters that they should examine objectively what is happening in the national service scheme. I could quite easily say things that might hurt, but I do not propose to do so. It appears to me that those people who advocate national service have had an opportunity to do something about defending their country, but have not exercised their right. They have committed young people to national service by an unfair method of roulette. This is why I ask honourable senators opposite to do what they can to correct what I regard as a stupidity. 
I know lads who, on discharge after completing their national service, have complained to me that their period of national service has been substantially wasted. Whilst accepting the obligation of national service they have been frustrated in their efforts to learn the requirements of the armed Services. Half their period of training has been spent walking around parade grounds picking up bumpers and goodness knows what else. I ask the Government to examine this scurrilous waste of manpower whereby lads are engaged in menial tasks after having been conscripted for another purpose. 
Another point in relation to national service is that many Government supporters do not realise the extent of the financial sacrifices that some lads are making. I know of many tradesmen who have been called up for national service. The difference in the payment they receive for 6 months of national service and the wages they would have received as tradesmen for 6 months can be at least $1,000. They could earn about $1,000 more in 6 months as tradesmen than they receive for that period as national servicemen. These lads should not be asked to make such a financial sacrifice. 
I ask the Government to examine the scheme in order to ensure that lads who are conscripted for national service do not lose financially as a result. I believe it is a tragedy that lads who have gained a professional degree, after completing their final year of university, are thrown into camp for 2 years. They are obliged to lose a substantial interest in their profession after working so hard to obtain degrees. I believe that if the Government examines the national service scheme it will find that what . I am saying is correct. I believe that the period of national service of 2 years, is too long altogether. 
I turn dow to a section of the Budget to which reference has not yet been made in this debate. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in his Budget Speech referred to sheltered workshops. Many honourable senators are interested in this type of activity and in trying to help people unfortunate enough to be maimed. 1 wonder where the Government got the idea for the scheme which is described in the Budget Speech in these words: 
It is also proposed to encourage sheltered workshops to graduate more of their employees to work in open industry by paying the organisation a training fee of $500 for each eligible employee who is placed in open employment for not less than 12 months. 
A cynic might say that the Government is snapping its fingers at sheltered workshops. Surely it. is the desire of all sheltered workshops to rehabilitate people - to place them in employment. Putting aside a cynical approach one might ask: How are they to qualify for the fee of $500? Is it with 1 employer or a series of employers? I suggest with respect that the Government would be far better employed in taking another look at the whole matter and deciding to make a grant rather than to provide in the way proposed for people sufficiently trained to enter open employment. A sheltered workshop may train a person for 4 or 5 years for open employment. It costs a lot of money for that training. On the other hand, a sheltered workshop may help with about 6 months training someone who is not particularly handicapped before that person enters open employment, thus qualifying the organisation for the training fee of $500. I suggest that it is an unfair situation. 
I come now to the increased postal charges that are to be levied on the public. It is a strange thing that last year the Post Office made a profit of $8m, but the people who use its facilities are to be called upon to pay more. I have always believed that when an enterprise is profitable - and I repeat that the Post Office made a profit last year of $8m - it should not have to increase its charges. Honourable senators opposite will probably resent my saying that we on this side of the chamber know that they are anti-working class. They are opposed to the workers. We know that in this chamber they have condemned postal workers in Australia. I do not have to remind honourable senators of the debate in which they did that. We all participated in it and we know the views of members of the Government parties. Let me therefore deny all that has been said by Government senators concerning workers and workers' leaders by referring to the annual report of the Australian Post Office for the year ended 30th June (969. At folio 6 it says: 
Apart from matters of pay and conditions of service, most of the unions have been concerned wilh improving efficiency of departmental operations in the interest of the public as well as to provide a more satisfying work environment for their members. 
 In addition to facilitating effective communication between staff and management, union officials have usually brought to bear a degree of knowledge and experience which has enabled  them  to highlight any need for a more positive approach or quicker action which they feel might be justified in times of changing technology and increasing productivity and prosperity. 
They are not the words of any honourable senator in Opposition today; they are the words used in the annual report of the Australian Post Office. So please do not let us hear any more rubbish from Government senators who endeavour to ridicule workers and trade union leaders. 
My time has almost expired, but before 1 resume my seat I want to make 2 observations. The first relates to the 50c increase that has been granted to pensioners. I do not know whether I move in different circles from those in which anybody on the other side of the chamber moves. If honourable senators opposite move among the cross-section of the community among which I move, I am sure that they must have heard people say: 'It were better that the Government gave the pensioners nothing than the miserable pittance of 50c that has been offered to them'. I say no more than that, except that I hope that Government senators will put themselves in the position of a pensioner trying to eke out an existence on the paltry amount of money that is paid to pensioners today. A substantial part of their income is eaten up by electricity charges and matters of that nature, without taking into consideration other things. 
What has been left out of the Budget? In the first place, the Government has failed horribly in relation to child endowment. We spend millions of dollars bringing migrants to this country. Yet good Australians who rear a family in an atmosphere that we applaud, in the main, are denied an adjustment of something that has been in operation for years. Surely the Government must hang its head in shame when it realises that it has failed parents by not providing better child endowment than is paid today. We have also heard in the past of the Government's policy of abolition of the means test. Is there any reference to abolition of the means test in this Budget? That policy is brought out only as a carrot offered to the people at election time. The Government has promised in the past that it will abolish the means test. This Budget does nothing in that direction. On the previous occasion an election was coming up and the Government said: 'Now we have a tapered means test*. But the taper has been extinguished. There is no more tapering of the means test. 
Members of the Government parties pride themselves on having observed their policy of reducing the incidence of taxation. If we look at the new scales of taxation we see that what the Government has done for the average person in Australia is minimal compared with what it has done for people in big business. For instance, a worker with a taxable income of $5,000 a year will save about $114 as a result of the magnificent reduction announced by the Government. But the workers have already been offered by the National Employers Policy Committee - under no industrial blackmail, I point out to  Senator Webster;  this offer has been made off the cuff - a 2 per cent wage increase, and they said that that is insufficient. So we can expect that the workers will receive considerably more than that from the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. If they win an increase of $400 in the next 2 years, their savings by way of this taxation concession will be exhausted completely. It will be a losing proposition because the tax saving on a taxable income of $5,000 a year is about $114 and on a taxable income of $5,400 a year it is about $129. So, they will be about $16 up. That is really magnificent! 
What about the people whom the Government represents? A person with a taxable income of $25,000 a year receives a reduction of about $244. Who wants the money - the fellow earning $5,000 a year or the person receiving $25,000 a year? Let us not forget that people receiving $25,000 a year can employ what is regarded as legitimate tax evasion, but the worker cannot do that. The 'Taxpayers Bulletin' of 18th August 1970 refers to the case of a fellow whose wife is supposed to do some filing, answering of the telephone and entertaining at home.  Mr President,  do you know how much he is allowed as a taxation deduction for that? He is allowed $780 a year. What wife of a worker or ordinary person in the community does not do work of that nature for charitable organisations, sporting organisations and bodies of that nature? 
The honourable senator says that because she represents people such as the fellow who is allowed that amount of money as a taxation deduction. I hope I represent the worker, who cannot chisel on his income tax. 
 If the honouroble senator regards that as illogical, he should tell the worker on the job why he cannot deduct anything for his wife who is engaged in activities such as Meals on Wheels, assisting lads in sporting organisations, assisting charitable organisations and spending money on this and that. He cannot deduct anything for that, but the colleagues of honourable senators opposite can. That is where the system is manifestly unfair and where the schedule of taxation concessions is totally wrong. 
I believe not only that the amendment moved by  Senator Murphy  is justified but that we would be unworthy of being called the Opposition if we did not draw attention to the deception of the Budget and the negative type of Budget that has been presented. Surely the Government is deceptive when it gives something on the one hand by way of tax relief and takes it on the other hand by way of increased charges and hidden costs. Surely it is a negative Budget when it fails to do what the Government in the past has promised to do; that is, to pay attention to the abolition of the means test or alternatively, if it has not the courage to do that, to proceed with a further tapering of the means test.  I  commend to all honourable senators the amendment moved by  Senator Murphy.  I ask  Senator Young  and his colleagues to have a look at what the pensioners are receiving today, if  Senator Young  does that, perhaps he will not be so vocal in his support of this iniquitous Budget. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
In view of the justifiable dissatisfaction being publicly expressed by nurses employed at the Canberra Community Hospital, will the Minister meet representatives of their organisation and objectively discuss their grievances, with a view to rewarding them with a decent standard of work-  ing conditions and a wage that more adequately represents their undoubted worth to the community. 
The Prime Minister and I met with representatives of the nurses employed at the Canberra Community Hospital on Tuesday, 26th May 1970. 
The Prime Minister informed the delegation that whereas the Government could and would, give consideration to plans to improve nursing education and other facets of nursing in the Australian Capital Territory, it could not interfere with the decision handed down by the Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
Subsequently, on 8th July, my representatives and representatives of the Acting Minister for Labour and National Service and of the Canberra Community Hospital Management Board met with the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Federal Secretary of the Hospital Employees Federation of Australia. At this meeting it was agreed that the parties would jointly request the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to make available a Presidential Member of the Commission to chair a further conference of the parties and to arrive at such conclusions as that Presidential Member saw fit. The parties agreed to abide by such conclu- . sions. 
Since then, wage increases as suggested by the Presidential Member for Sisters Grades 1, 2 and 3 have been implemented together with the flow-on of these increases to higher grades of nurses, and increases for nursing aides and student nurses. In all cases, the wage increases were awarded through the proper arbitration authority, namely the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that in Queensland there is a delay of approximately 4 months before installation and connection of telephones to private homes can be effected, because of a lack of the necessary equipment; if so, what is the reason for such an apparently lengthy delay. 
In the majority of cases, recent experience in Queensland has been that telephone services have been provided within about four weeks. However, because demand for new services has risen sharply In that State, some temporary shortages of exchange equipment and line plant are occurring in particular areas. In these cases, unfortunately the Post Office is not able to provide services as quickly as it would like. 
It is understood that the Honourable  Senator may  be particularly interested in the Everton Park area which is served by the Mitchelton exchange. There are no spare numbers on that exshange and it is not possible to proceed with connection of. new services pending an extension to the capacity of the exchange towards the end of this year. This work is in progress. At present more than 20C applicants are waiting for service on the Mitchelton exchange and by the time they can be satisfied, some will have waited more than six months. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What is the guiding principle of the Department in determining to which category bulk postage is allocated. 
Do publications which are published by co-operative organisations and which aim at promoting safety factors, explaining laws of general interest to a wide section of the community and explaining planning schemes and their implications to the community, attract priority, and would such publications qualify for category 'A'. 
Newspapers and periodicals registered at  a  General Post Office are eligible for Category 'A' classification if they come within one of the following groups: 
publications consisting in substantial part of news, information and articles of special interest to people in country areas and having  a  substantially greater number of copies sold to persons in country areas than sold to persons in other areas, or 
publications published by religious, charitable or welfare organisations consisting in substantial part of news, information and articles about their activities or concerning matters relating to religion, charity or welfare, or 
publications published by educational, scientific or technical organisations having  as  their principal object the dissemination of knowledge, and consisting in substantial part of news, information and articles relating to educational, scientific or technical, subjects or to primary production. 
Registered publications published by social, recreational or motorists organisations, organisations of employers or employees or of persons engagedin, or connected with business or a profession are not eligible for Category 'A' registration. 
While each publication must be considered individually, it is not likely that the type of publication described by  Senator Milliner  would be eligible for Category 'A' registration. . 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. As he will appreciate, many weekly wage workers are compelled to use public transport to travel to and from work each day. As the cost to the worker concerned could be as high as $1 a day, will the Minister give favourable consideration to allowing the legitimate cost of travel to and from work as an income tax deduction? Will he give the same favourable consideration to allowing, as an income tax deduction, the legitimate cost involved in travel to and from work when a shift worker is required to use his own vehicle for this purpose because public transport has ceased to operate? 
To my conscious knowledge, down through the years this proposal has been put both in debate and by way of question. As all honourable senators would know, the normal period in which the Treasurer considers any variations in allowances is in the pre-Budget period. Therefore, at this stage in the Budget session I express the view that nothing will be done now on the lines suggested although I point out that  propos- als in relation to changed allowances, new allowances, grants to various organisations and so on are examined every year. However, in fairness to the honourable senator and in accordance with my responsibility I will refer the request to the Treasurer. 
 T  direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. A statement put down in another place by the Minister for Social Services in relation to the work force in sheltered workshops contains the following statement: 
Sheltered workshops are, therefore, continually losing their most proficient workers with resultant loss of their productive capacity. Because of this there has been an understandable reluctance on the part of many workshops to encourage their best workers to attempt the step to open employment. 
Could the Minister indicate the names of the 'many workshops' to which he referred? 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of any shortages of skilled tradesmen at the Commonwealth Government Printing Office? If there is a shortage of such skilled tradesmen, in which sections of the trade do such shortages occur and how long ago was it apparent that it was necessary to recruit skilled tradesmen? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI recall that there was some problem in the Government Printing Office in relation to certain areas of employment. J will have to ascertain the facts and make them available to the honourable senator. As to the subsequent question that he asks arising out of his initial question, as soon as I can obtain an answer I will put it down in the Senate. 
1 believe that on an issue of this nature one could become very emotional and speak with some feeling about the present plight of Australia's pensioners. Quite frankly, I do not know that that would do a great deal for them at this stage. The Budget has been introduced, lt is obvious that pensioners will receive a 50c a week increase from this Bill. Therefore, I shall address my remarks, in the main, to an attempt to determine our attitude towards pensions. 1 know that the altitude of my Party is that the pension should be a living wage - a wage that will enable pensioners to live with some degree of dignity. I know that in the past Che attitude of the Government has been that the wage should be only a subsistence and that relatives of the pensioner should assist in maintaining the pensioner. In case I am challenged on that statement, I. refer to what the late Prime Minister  (Mr Harold Holt)  said. He made that abundantly clear when be was in Brisbane and was questioned on a session called 'Meet the Press'. He said that the Government's altitude to the pension was that it should not be and never should be enough to sustain a pensioner wholly and that it was the responsibility of the pensioner's relatives to assist to maintain the pensioner. If we start on the basis that that is the attitude that the Government still takes towards pensions, I suppose we could say that the 50c a week increase is adequate. If, on the other hand - and 1 believe any enlightened government should adopt this attitude - the pension paid to a recipient should be sufficient to maintain him in bodily comforts and to give him some dignity in life, then I suggest the 50c a week increase is totally inadequate. 
A dignity in life that would allow him to live in some degree of comfort. 
 I am sorry that  Senator Greenwood  disagrees with me on that issue. The point is that all would have a different standard of dignity in life. For instance, on retirement the requirements of a man who has been a worker all his life probably would not be as great as those of members of Parliament.  His  standard of living perhaps would not be as high and therefore he would not be required to maintain standards as high as those maintained by a retired member of Parliament. 
I will come to that point in a moment. Until such time as we contribute during our working life towards a pension that is commensurate with the wage paid on retirement, 1 think we will find it difficult to determine such matters.  Senator Greenwood  asked the question quite objectively and 1 accepted it as such. Dignity in life most assuredly is not available for some Australians who have to live in poverty. We should not query the degrees, but we should face the fact that Australians are living in poverty. I do not know how some pensioners keep body and soul together on what they receive today, if we visited some of the homes in which pensioners live, I believe we would agree that the standard of living is not a particularly high standard, f will not mention names of homes, but I have visited quite a number of homes which cater for the elderly. The standard of accommodation is most inferior. 
II  believe that if honourable senators on the Government side visited those homes they would find that the accommodation in some is of an inferior standard. J know thai the Minister in charge of the Bill, the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin),  visits a lot of old people's homes. 1 know she is conscious of the problems of people in those homes. I think she would agree with me that in some instances the accommodation is of an inferior standard. 
They are the matters to which I believe we should be paying attention, as well as to the benefits that should be paid. I do not think we will reach the stage of paying attention to those matters until we determine, in the first instance, in our minds and in the minds of the Government what is the correct attitude to take towards pensions - whether the recipient should be in receipt of a pension thai will maintain, him or her or whether we give to a pensioner a pension that is a subsistence only and require the relatives to come to the aid of the pensioner. Our attitude is that the pension should be sufficient to enable the pensioner to live as he should. 
I do not think Australians can be very proud that the pension entitlement to those who receive the pension is $15.50 a week. If one analysed the situation one would find that a lot of imagination would be required to believe that that would be sufficient for a pensioner to live in today's economy. The 50c a week increase referred to in the Budget is the pensioners' entitlement on this occasion. I do not know whether T move in circles different from those of other honourable senators but numerous people have said that it would have been better for the Government to have given them anything rather than to have given them a miserable 50c a week increase. Honourable senators opposite may disagree with me. I am not speaking of workers on the job or anything of that nature. I am speaking of a crosssection of the community and if honourable senators opposite have not heard that expression they must move in totally different circles from mine. 
I do not suggest that pensions should be reduced. That is an absurd interjection. 
That is typical of the inane interjections one attracts when trying to approach a problem that faces the Government and the people of Australia today. The honourable senator is living in the past. He is living so far in the past that shortly he will be out of the present. Much has been said about fringe benefits. Everybody would agree that pensioners have access to fringe benefits, but it would not make a scrap of difference in that respect whether pensions were increased by $2 or 50c a week. Those fringe benefits would still be there. They are constant and must remain constant in these times. It is useless when discussing pensions to talk about the fringe benefits to which pensioners are entitled. Bearing in mind  Senator Malcolm  Scott's interjection, in those days pensioners had very little. They were on the first step. Then their conditions improved and they advanced to the second step. The second step is the pension they are already receiving and the fringe benefits as well. For goodness sake let us not say that they are not to advance from the second step. They are entitled to come on to the verandah. From that view point we believe that the increase of 50c a week in the base rate pension is totally inadequate. 
Everybody in Australia throughout his working life pays for the social service benefits which are his entitlement when he qualifies by his age. Gone are the days when a stigma was attached to the pension. I think the vast majority of Australians today believe the pension to be their entitlement. When they finish work they are entitled to a pension. It is not a charitable gift from the Government. Every worker in Australia pays income tax and earns a pension entitlement. I would very much like to see in Australia the conditions that operate in overseas countries. I have in mind particularly Holland where a person on retirement receives 75 per cent of his wage or salary paid at time of retirement. That at least provides for him the standard of living to which he had been accustomed during his working life. He is paid a pension for which he established entitlement during his working life. I believe that that is the way the problem must eventually be approached in Australia in order to overcome the difficulties that confront us when each Budget is presented to the Parliament. 
Let me answer first the honourable senator for margarine who has said that it would take too long. It is a simple matter. Part of a person's income tax contributions would be put aside for social service benefits, or a pension, on retirement. It could be done and should be done. It is done now in some directions. The payment of fringe benefits is a move in that direction. With pension entitlements we have not gone along the road we should have travelled. I do not want to go into the history of social services, but this was the policy of the Government.  Sir Robert  Menzies announced that the means test would be abolished. How would he go about that? 
 I know why it was your policy. At that time it was a fairly popular issue and a vote catcher. Irrespective of whether the honourable senator's Party has changed its policy, the fact remains - and [ think he would agree with this privately - that until we get to that stage the Government will be in a difficult situation. 
If I am 20 years behind the times you are about 35 years behind the times because you were talking about pensions being reduced. The present situation is intolerable. Another government will be in power in the near future and a different approach must be made to social service entitlements. The social service legislation contains anomaly after anomaly. Let us take the example of 2 public servants working alongside each other for life. They could start work on the same day and retire together. One could have provided for his old age and contributed for an annuity sufficient to give him a reasonable standard on retirement. The other could have elected instead to pursue a good time during his life and not to save a penny piece. Upon retirement the man who has provided for his latter days receives nothing from the Government. The fellow who has lived it up during his working life qualifies for a pension. Surely there is no rhyme or reason in that state of affairs. 
Not necessarily. The man who gets $40 or $50 a week is denied the pension of $15.50 a week for which he contributed during all of his working life. It is an anomaly whatever way you look at it 
I am sorry that you have not been able to understand what I have been saying. 
If you understand the simple facts of life, perhaps 1 do not. I am saying that if you argue that an increase of 50c a week for a pensioner is sufficient yon do not understand the facts. 
Would you go back into the Dark Ages? Go back a little further. 
 i  repeat to the honourable senator that he is living in the past, but soon he will be living in the past out of this place. Let us try to be gentlermen. What will an extra 50c a week mean to a pensioner today? lt will be swallowed up almost immediately. For instance, there is an increase of 21 per cent in the sales tax payable on quite a number of commodities. I think it would be reasonable to assume, judged by past performances, that that increase in sales tax will be passed on to the public and the pensioner will have to pay his share of it. Do honourable senators opposite expect companies to absorb the increase in the company tax or do they think that they will pass on the extra charge? Telephone charges have been increased. Do honourable senators opposite expect companies to accept the responsibility of meeting the extra charges or to pass them on? 
The duty on certain petroleum products has been increased, too. Let us consider what the increased duty will mean to local authorities, lt has been estimated that the increase in the cost of diesel fuel and the increase in telephone charges will cost the Brisbane City Council in the vicinity of $400,000 a year. The Council will not be able to meet this additional cost. What will be the result? There will be increased rates, fares, electricity charges and so on and the pensioners will have to meet some of those increased costs. I do not suppose that anybody would deny a pensioner the right to smoke a packet of cigarettes a day, but if he smokes a packet a day he is up for an extra 21c a week for cigarettes alone. If he smokes lib of tobacco a week he is up for an extra 50c a week. Surely someone who has smoked throughout his working life and who has taken the risk of lung cancer and survived should not be asked to deny himself that small luxury upon retirement. 
If one adds up the increased costs which pensioners will be expected to bear one will find that the 50c increase which has been granted to them will be quickly swallowed up. I read in today's newspapers that some commodities have increased in price by 100 per cent. As I am not a housekeeper I would not know how many of these commodities are bought by pensioners, but I assume that they buy some of them. This is. a fairly steep increase .for them to meet. I could go on and on in this way. For example, tonight there was a news item to the effect that the employers had offered the trade unions involved in the national wage case a 2 per cent increase. The theory of honourable senators opposite is that when wages go up costs go up. Once again the pensioners will have to meet the additional costs. It has been said tonight that certain fringe benefits are provided to pensioners by local authorities in the form of reduced electricity charges, rates and so on, but this situation cannot continue because the local authorities can draw their revenue only from the ratepayers. The ratepayers are being asked to accept responsibility for what the Opposition believes to be the problem of the Commonwealth Government and that is providing pensioners with an amount which will assist them in the evening of their careers. Pensioners in Brisbane receive bus concessions, but these concessions are provided at the discretion of the local authority. Neither the State Government nor- the Commonwealth Government takes into consideration the fact that the local authority in Brisbane grants these concessions and no reimbursement is provided.  Sir, I  hope you will not rule me out of order in raising this question, blf do you know that the budget of the Brisbane City Council is larger than the budget of the Tasmanian Government? 
I will bring the pensioners into it by saying that the Brisbane City Council could advance a claim for being subsidised because it gives concessions to pensioners. I repeat that the local authorities cannot grant these concessions indefinitely because the burden which would be placed on the average ratepayer would be obnoxious to him. The question of where the money would come from to finance a greater increase has been seriously and conscientiously posed tonight by honourable senators opposite. It is not the responsibility of the Opposition to say from where the money could come; that is the responsibility of the Government However, I believe that if the taxation field were properly policed a vast amount of revenue would be available to the Government. The payment of a large amount of taxation is being legally but unfairly evaded at present. I will not canvass that aspect any further except to say that if some of the large expense accounts which are being claimed by some businesses as deductions do not constitute tax evasion, lawful though they may be, then I do not know what does. It is unfair that certain business should be allowed to claim such large sums. The community is being robbed of money which should flow to the coffers of the Treasury by way of taxes. That is one aspect which should be critically examined. I hope that one day it will be examined. 
 No. However, if the honourable senator were to have a look at the taxation concessions this year- 
Hallo, Dim Sim is in with his inane remarks, as usual. 
 I  have answered the honourable senator in part.If he were to have a look at the taxation concessions he would find that a substantial number of these concessions, which total about $850m, are unfair concessions.  I  believe a substantial part of the total concessions could be returned to the Treasury. 
I would say that the extent to which companies and a lot of other taxpayers touch the Commonwealth Taxation Office would be in the vicinity of $400m. 
Spit out the dim sim. 
At least 50 per cent. The amendment which was moved by  Senator Fitzgerald,  whichI support, states: 
At end of motion add: 'but the Senate is of opinion that - 
the increases proposed arc inadequate; 
social service payments generally are inadequate to maintain an acceptable standard of living: 
steps should be taken immediately to eliminate poverty; and 
. a contributory national superannuation system should be established and the means test eliminated.' 
Those honourable senators who wish to argue against the amendment would have to say, in the first place, that the increases proposed are adequate. Do honourable senators opposite say that the increase of 50c which is being made in the age pension is adequate?I think they would find it. most difficult to influence anybody in the community to believe that 50c is an adequate increase in the age pension. The second paragraph of the amendment states that social service payments generally are inadequate to maintain an acceptable standard of living. Do honourable senators opposite say that a person in receipt of a pension of $15.50 a week can maintain an acceptable standard of living?It has been said tonight that pensioners can earn an additional $10 a week if they wish. Honourable senators would know from their own business experience that it is most difficult for persons 65 years of age and over to obtain a job.I do not know the position in other States of the Commonwealth, butI would venture to say that very few employers indeed would be ready to accept for employment an individual over 65 years of age. There might be the exception, but in the majority of cases employers would not accept that type of employee. The third point in the amendment moved by  Senator Fitzgerald  reads: 
Steps should be taken immediately to eliminate poverty. 
Can we address the question to ourselves: Is there poverty in Australia? We have to look at the opinion of people who have done research in this direction for the answer to that question. They have found that there is poverty in Australia, and that is something of which we should not be proud. 1 know people who are living near poverty, if not in poverty.  I  know people of pensionable age who are living in homes and rented rooms, and by the time they have paid their rent they have very little to maintain a decent standard of living.  I  think we can say that there are people approaching, if not on. the poverty line. The fourth point in the honourable senator's amendment is: 
A contributory national superannuation system should be established and the means test eliminated. 
I agree that it should have been done years ago, but do not forget that this Government has been in power for the last 20 years and it has not seen fit to do anything of that nature. Surely some criticism must be levelled at the Government in that direction. When an election was pending - I referred to this the other night - in came the tapered means test. This was to cushion the effects of what eventually may be felt by way of the abolition of the means test. 
The object of the Government when it introduced the  tapered means test was to cushion the eventual effects of the abolition of the means test, but that has been forgotten now. 
 How does the honourable senator know it is an election year? Is he privy to Government secrets? The Government has not indicated, to my knowledge anyhow, whether the election will be this year or any other year. The position is not the same for a Senate election as it would be for a general election. 
 That might be. I am responsible for my own point of view on this issue and nobody else's. But I repeat that this tapered means test was an issue and it was blazoned by supporters of the Government that it was going to be a means of cushioning the effect of the eventual abolition of the means test. I hope I have approached this question rationally, without emotion, even though 1 feel for the vast majority of pensioners, as J am sure honourable senators on both sides of the chamber do. 1 hope anything I have said has been directed towards meeting their eventual lot. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. As it appears to be most difficult for workers to obtain homes for rent or purchase in Gladstone and in view of the fact that this is a fast growing city which, if allowed to grow without thoughtful town planning, will present difficulties, will the Minister agree that it is desirable for the Commonwealth Government to make appropriate overtures to the State Government and the local authority concerned for the purpose of urgently discussing and implementing a well-conceived practical town plan for Gladstone? 
I have 3 matters to raise on the consideration of the Bill at this stage. The first may be regarded as a case in isolation but nevertheless I feel that an injury to one is the concern of all. This matter concerns a young man working at a general post office. He had been employed by the Post Office for 18 years when he had a stroke. He agreed with the Department that he could not continue in his employment so there is no disagreement on that score. He then went to the Government Medical Officer who concurred that it would be impossible for him to continue in his employment. The Government Medical Officer recommended to the Post Office that this man be dismissed. He received all his entitlements. He then made application for an invalid pension. 
By a strange coincidence he went to the same Government Medical Officer. But the Government Medical Officer refused to certify that the man was entitled to an invalid pension notwithstanding the fact that in the first instance he had said the man was incapable of continuing his employment with the post office. This young man was not a highly skilled technician. He was an office worker. If he could not continue in his position at the post office - he agreed that it would be impossible for him to do so - then I believe he should have been entitled to the invalid pension. The situation has been overcome but I do not think we should have had to overcome it. 1 raise this matter in the hope that the Postal Department might consider, in similar circumstances in the future, ensuring that the same Government Medical Officer is not engaged for the purpose of determining whether the person concerned is entitled to an invalid pension. 
The second matter I wish to raise I also raised last night. I was wondering whether the Department would have a look at the inferior standard of accommodation which is provided by some organisations. They may be church organisations or charitable institutions but I do not think that alters the fact. I think all would agree that a person in the twilight of his life should have reasonable living conditions. I am not being critical of the people who run these organisations. I ask everybody to accept that it is not a criticism of them. Perhaps they have not the finance to do the job. I was wondering whether the Department could make a survey of some of these institutions to see whether it could assist. I believe that all honourable senators would agree entirely that if the Government found that an institution had not the finance to provide suitable accommodation but was anxious to continue to look after the aged, it should make finance available to that institution. Only last Saturday  1  visited an institution which I do not wish to name, lt is a charitable organisation doing an extremely good job under difficulties. I will give honourable senators an idea of the accommodation provided by pointing out that there were no baths for the inmates. Forty-five inmates were cared for in this institution but there were no baths. They were required to have showers. Honourable senators can appreciate the difficulties of the staff when elderly people are trying to have a shower. A further difficulty is the retaining of staff in these organisations or institutions when the accommodation is so inferior. I make that suggestion to the Government in that direction. 
My third point is that I would like the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  to explain how long the Heart Foundation of Australia has been co-opted by the Government to consider heart conditions. In its infancy the Heart Foundation was never intended to be used for this purpose. In Queensland people who have made application for an invalid pension because of a heart attack are required to go to the Heart Foundation.  1  am not suggesting that they do not receive a proper examination when they go before the Foundation but it appears to me that this was never the purpose of the Heart Foundation when it was inaugurated. In addition the Heart Foundation does not meet as regularly as one would like. No criticism whatever is meant of the Foundation in that direction. Its members are all busy medical specialists. My attention was drawn to an instance the other day of an applicant for an invalid pension being required to go to the Heart Foundation for an examination. It was exactly  1  month before the applicant could attend the Heart Foundation for the examination. I have raised these matters hoping that they will be of some assistance to the aged and also to the Government. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing)  (9.39)  -  Senator Milliner  has raised  3  points. I will commence with the second one because the honourable senator spoke along those lines in his second reading speech. I do not think he was in the chamber when I replied to the second reading debate. In my reply 1 referred to his comments and said that I was interested in the points he had made. I said I would be pleased if he could refer to a particular place or give some further information, or words to that effect. In effect I really answered this point when I replied to the second reading debate. 
Further to this there are one or two points I would like to make. I cannot think that the organisations to which the honourable senator referred are church or charitable homes run by church or charitable bodies which receive a subsidy under the Aged Persons Homes Act because standards are set down for these homes and they would be looked at. Therefore I think he must be referring to some other homes. I also wonder whether he is referring to nursing homes. The registration of those institutions is primarily a matter for the State Government. I would appreciate it if the honourable senator would give me the details of the institutions to which he referred. Then 1 could inform the Minister and see what can be done about the position. That is what I said in replying to the honourable senator when closing the second reading debate. 
I now want to refer to the first point raised by him in relation to the invalid pension. I understood him to say that the person concerned was ill and was told that he was not fit for work in the Post Office, yet he was still ineligible for an invalid pension. I am speaking in the dark about this matter. I do not know the person concerned and I do not know the disabilities involved. I understand he suffered from an illness but I do not know the details of his occupation or of the other job that he had. It may be that his job was one in which, for instance, hearing was important and that he lost his hearing and therefore was not able to continue in it but was eligible for another job where hearing was not so important. In such an instance he would be ineligible for the invalid pension. 
I shall give you details later. 
I take up the cudgels on behalf of my two Queensland colleagues in this Senate. I believe that we have heard tonight one of the most disgraceful accusations ever made in a Parliament that is supposed to be in a free country. I wish to emphasise some of the words that have been used by the Premier of Queensland - and he used them in respect of honourable senators in this chamber. If  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  is correct then I say it is the responsibility of the Government to charge these two senators with subversive activities. But the Government would not be game to do so because it knows that the charges could not possibly be sustained. Let me read the final section of the statement made by the Premier of Queensland: 
These subversive elements will be closely watched by my Government in the future and their activities against decency and the democracy exposed. 
Can we as members of the national Parliament accept such a challenge from the Premier of Queensland that we have subversive influences, subversive elements, within our midst? Are we to accept that or are we to challenge the Premier of Queensland to make known the evidence he has against these two senators? Surely the evidence that has been displayed in this document is completely the reverse of what has been said about subversive activities. The situation is that these people have engaged in lawful activities, and if they are going to be charged with subversion because they were associated with the Moratorium in Queensland then I stand alongside them and say that I associated myself with the Moratorium in Queensland. I challenge any senator on the Government benches to charge me with subversion. I marched in the Moratorium because of the fact that- 
I am proud to say I marched last week, I marched on the previous occasion and, subject to certain conditions, I will march in the future. That is my undisputed right. Government senators speak of law and order, but when one observes law and order and marches in a lawful procession one is charged with being disloyal. I ask: Disloyal to whom? I am loyal to my own conscience. I firmly believe that the war in Vietnam is a phoney. I do not want my children's children to be going to the war in Vietnam. I want no children of Australians to be forced into the war in Vietnam, and by my actions in marching in the procession I believe I displayed my sincere beliefs. Was it an unlawful march? If it were unlawful, why did the police in Queensland issue a permit for the procession to take place? You may use the emotionally toned words that  Senator Greenwood  used about the march. He said on the one hand that we must respect law and order and yet he criticises anybody who respects law and order and marches in a lawful procession. 
 There were no unruly demonstrations. There were no Vietcong flags. I saw one or two flags that are alleged to belong to the Communist Party. Peace does not belong to the Australian Labor Party, the Liberal Party, the Country Party, the Democratic Labor Party or the Communist Party. Peace belongs to the people of Australia. 
 I respect the ideas of any person. If he opposes the war in Vietnam, he should be allowed to show it by his actions. If a person supports the war in Vietnam and the sending of the youth of Australia to Vietnam, that is his entitlement. But I would hate to look at his conscience first thing in the morning. My conscience is clear on the issue. I believe that I acted in accordance with my conscience. But that cannot be said of the Premier of Queensland who, when he was called up during the Second World War, used the provisions of the law to get out of going to that war. I do not know whether honourable senators on the other side know this, but I have here the Premier's own public statement that he was called up- 
Is it a smear? I am pointing out merely what the Premier of Queensland said in a public statement. He said that he was called up for service in the Second World War but that he applied to be relieved of his responsibility to go to that war because he was running a farm and because he had some children to look after. He exercised his right. Surely hundreds of young lads are exercising their rights today and that selfsame Premier and members of the Government would deny to those young lads the right to exercise their entitlements under the provisions of the National Service Act. Surely we cannot be so inconsistent as to say that, on the one hand, the Premier of Queensland during the Second World War could exercise his rights and not be charged for being disloyal but that when young lads exercise their rights today under the National Service Act they are tobe charged with being disloyal, are to be regarded as unAustralian and everything else. 
I conclude by stating that I support entirely the activities of  Senator Keeffe  and  Senator Georges.  I have known them much longer than any member of the Government has known them. I have known them much longer than many of my colleagues on this side of the Senate have known them. I have never known them to be subversive in their activities. I would deny to them the right to be subversive  in  their activities. They are good Australians of whom we can be proud. I close on this note: I believe that this Senate has  been  offered an insult by the Premier of Queensland who has charged 2 honourable senators with being subversive elements. I trust,  Mr President,  that you will regard this situation in the same light as I have  seen  it and will call upon the Premier of Queensland to withdraw his charges made under privilege which he would not  be  game to make outside the Queensland Parliament. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 12.19 a.m. (Thursday) 
-I wish to address myself to the measures outlined in this Bill in 3 directions. However, before doing so, I would like to ask some questions of the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin),  who represents the PostmasterGeneral in this chamber, concerning her second reading speech. As the Minister is busy at the moment, I will comment upon what I believe were most unusual speeches by  Senator Webster  and  Senator Young  tonight. It appeared to me that both  Senator Webster  and  Senator Young  were most critical of the legislation, but each said that he would support it. They may have been critical of the legislation for political purposes. It may be their intention to say to their constituents that they were critical of the legislation. However, when the testing time comes I am sure we will find that they will support the Government and vote against the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Willesee  on behalf of the Opposition. There are one or two matters in the second reading speech of the Minister to which I wish to refer. The Minister said: 
It is anticipated that the Post Office trading results for 1970-71 would show a loss of $11m if no adjustment to charges were made. This would result from a postal loss of $30m and a telecommunications profit of $19m and is largely the result of increased wages totalling$58m, of which $45m will be a charge against trading operations. 
I ask: Will the Minister indicate how the anticipated loss of $11m would have occurred if no adjustments to charges were made? How did the Minister arrive at the fact that wages increases in 1970-71 would total $58m? It would appear to me as though some explanation is necessary, particularly in relation to the forecast of an increase of $58m in wages. MightI say at this stage that 1 am rather disappointed that the annual report of the 
Postmaster-General's Department for the current year has not been .tabled. 1 accept the fact that the Minister has said in all sincerity that a loss of Slim was anticipated if no adjustment to charges were made. Nevertheless, I believe that the Senate should investigate this figure to determine whether it is factual. The Post Office showed a profit of §4m last year. Certain services have been reduced since then and it has been alleged that there is greater efficiency in the Post Office. Computers have been introduced, too. When one takes all of these factors into account it is difficult to understand how a profit of $4m could turn into an anticipated loss of Slim. I believe that unless the Senate has the full details it is most difficult for it to determine its attitude to the anticipated loss of Slim. I hope that the Minister will be able to correct this situation prior to the conclusion of the debate on this Bill so that honourable senators will be in possession of the figures and will be better able to analyse the situation. 
I have had some difficulty in trying to determine how it could be anticipated that there would be a loss of $11 m if no adjustments to charges were made. It may be that included in the amount of the estimated loss is money which the Post Office would pay to the Department of Works for buildings which have been constructed. Information on this aspect was made available to one of the estimates committees the other day. I do not think I am divulging anything I should not divulge when 1 say that I know that other members of the committee as well as myself were a little surprised to learn that the Post Office paid the Department of Works for erecting its buildings whereas, for instance, the Department of Education and Science did not. There may be a reasonable explanation for this, but none has been forthcoming at this stage as far as I am concerned. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sir Magnus Cormack)  Order! It is quite proper for the honourable senator to refer to matters that took place at a meeting of an estimates committee. It has been printed in the Hansard of the estimates committees. 
I did not think I was divulging anything I should not divulge. I repeat that I find it hard to reconcile the fact that the Department made a profit of S4m one year and next year it anticipates making a loss of $llm. I repeat that I would have to have the figures before me before I could be convinced that this loss will eventuate. There has been a deterioration in services to the public in that there is now only one delivery of letters a day. The modernised methods employed in the Post Office by way of computerisation should have reflected a decrease in expenditure or. put the other way, an increased profit. In those circumstances I believe that the Senate is entitled to further information other than that a loss is anticipated. It is anticipated, I expect, by the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme),  but 1 do not think that is sufficient for Parliament to accept that statement at face value. The Minister said: 
Again it is not the role of the 1'ost Office to support religious denominations, charitable bodies, educational, scientific and technical institutions and the lite, however desirable helping the activities of these organisations may be. 
Whose role is it to assist these worthy organisations? We accept that they are worthy organisations in the community. The Post Office will not accept the responsibility. It will place additional imposts on them. Who will help these organisations? I suggest with respect that the approach referred to in the Minister's speech is a fairly cynical one. 1 question whether the Government is conscious of the effect that increased postal charges will have on 3 areas to which I shall refer specifically. I refer to the trade union movement, to charitable and religious organisations and to the general public. 
My colleague asks about the pensioners. In my speech on the Budget  1  addressed myself to the plight of pensioners. On this occasion I will include them in the category of general public. I do not believe the Government is conscious of the result these increased postal charges will have. A Queensland trade union estimates that the increased charges will cost it an additional $16,000 a year to post its trade union journal. The situation is a fairly serious one. One union will have to find a further $16,000 to meet the cost of posting its journal. At present it pays $9,552. That figure will be increased to $25,462. 
Our experience is that distribution at places of work is a most unsatisfactory method of distribution of trade union journals. They go to a firm's premises and are deposited in the front office. Goodness knows who would get them. The employer may get them. If he is an uncharitable employer he may see that the journals do not get to the employees. If that risk is overcome, a clerk or somebody in the front office has to be relied upon for the distribution of the journals to the workers at the back of the office. That is another risk. Then the shop delegate has to be relied upon to distribute them in the establishment. Assuming they have been distributed by the shop delegate to the workers in the shop, there is a further difficulty. The journals will be left lying around the shop. Some people who may not be entitled to read them may read them. 
 Senator Rae  said that the workers can read them the same as they usually do, but I disagree. I think they are factors which mitigate against mass distribution on a shop basis. I speak with some experience when I say that. There are 284,000 workers in Queensland, the vast majority of whom would receive trade union journals. The increased postage charges on these journals will impose a burden on a substantial number of trade unions. We estimate that the increase will be in the vicinity of $70,000. If the figure for the rest of Australia is added to that, it is a conservative estimate that the total increase to the trade union movement will be in the vicinity of $500,000. If the further administrative costs to the trade union movement are added - and I refer to increased telephone rentals and to the increased cost of letter postage - on a conservative estimate it will cost the trade union movement, the workers of Australia, about Sim a year to meet the increased charges contained in these Bills. 1. question whether the Government is aware of the staggering figure that it will cost workers in industry. 
There are 2 ways in which the trade union movement can do it. Firstly, it can reduce the size or frequency of publication of the journal or eliminate it. Secondly, it can increase its membership fees. They are at a fairly substantial level now. It costs me, and all the members of the Union to which I belong, $1.7 a half year for union contributions. The fees we pay are not the highest. It is a little difficult to ask workers to pay more than that. 
 I will underline that statement. The next time  Senator Greenwood  criticises workers for increasing the price of the commodity they sell, I will suggest to him that he should take a different attitude from the one he has taken tonight. I will underline his words. Any time he is critical of workers for trying to sell their labour at a higher price, I will remember what he said and remind him of it. 
Do not try io squirm out of it. 1 have said that I will remember it. I will cut out the report of what was said and post it in my diary. I referred to the fact that the cost to one union will increase from the present $9,552 to $25,462. In its own way, the Government has seen fit to try to help the printing industry by imposing a bounty in respect of books printed overseas. Its actions in increasing postal charges will destroy immediately some of the journals that have been printed here in the past. Nol only will the Post Office eliminate some of the work that normally would be done by the printing industry but the Post Office itself will lose revenue because publications will go out of existence. Consequently, there will be 2 losses. Quite frankly, I doubt whether the Government is really conscious of what it is doing in increasing postal charges. 
What is the object of a trade union journal? lt is to educate, enlighten and influence union members to take an interest in the affairs of the union to which they belong. Surely that is an object which should be encouraged rather than discouraged. 1 propose to refer now to the Printing Trades Journal of which I can speak with some little authority. This publication has a circulation of 45,000. lt is posted free to all male members of the Printing and Kindred Industries Union throughout Australia, if they request that it be sent to them. The additional cost to the union of posting this journal will be in the vicinity of $1,250, on our estimate. I propose to point out to the Senate some of the matter contained in the journal and to refer to the educational nature of this publication. The first page contains a leading article which criticises the Government for its strange logic in wage fixation. That is very educational. The second page reports on some of the important events in the union, such as the fact that there will be a council meeting held in Adelaide this year. It mentions that the printing of the journal is to be changed to a new modern method. Next is an article relating to an ink making agreement between the employers and the union. Next is a reference to a new  president  coining- into office and the past president's thanks for the support given to him during the year. 
The next page deals with news of the month in the printing industry, lt refers to retrospectivity being granted by  Mr Commissioner  Gough in increases awarded in the pulp and paper industry award case. An article on that page mentions that a fraternal delegate from New Zealand is in Australia and it asks our members to make themselves known to him when he visits the shops. The next article deals with paper making safety and the welfare of those engaged in the industry. It provides instructions on safety and welfare to members of the union. The next page is a miscellany of the current happenings of interest to union members, including a report on the sickness of the Victorian branch secretary and also a reference to rules of printed English. The article states: 
Members generally, particularly compositors and proof readers, will find 'rules of printed English' to be a handy reference book. Written by Herbert Rees and published by  Darton,  Longman and Todd (England), this 164 page hard-covered book is available in Australia, through Cassell Australia Ltd, at $3.55 a copy. 
The article goes on to show how members, particularly in one section of the industry, can improve themselves. The next items deal with the question of who will represent the New South Wales and Western Australian branches of the union at the council meeting this year. In the next column we find a reference to the death in Hobart on 14th March of  Mr L.  R. Benjamin. C.B.E., who was a great pioneer in the paper making industry in that State. The next page reports on a visit to Perth by the federal secretary to attend to union matters. Then each branch of the union has its own page which is of interest to members throughout Australia. Last but not least, on the back page is an advertisement inserted by the Commonwealth Government Printer advertising for staff. This journal has educational value, but the distribution of it to members will cost the union an additional $1,250 a year. 
It is a monthly journal. If the Minister would like a copy I would be happy to supply her with one. 
We send them by bulk postage. 
It will cost the union $1,250. 
I do not think so. 1 think we have to take into consideration how much the increased charges will cost the union. 
It is 40,000. 1 have referred to the Printing Trades Journal lo show the function of trade union journals. I question whether the. unions should be penalised to the extent that will be the case if this legislation is passed. Other organisations within the trade union movement can speak for themselves about the information contained in their journals, but J have read quite a number of them and the aim of all is to try to educate union members, to try to encourage members to take an interest in the activities of the union. Surely these are worthy motives. 
 I can speak with authority for my own union's journal; we do not have doctored photographs in that. I know that the Minister for Housing has the highest regard for the work performed by charitable and religious organisations in the social welfare field and in looking after people who perhaps are not so fortunate as we are. It seems ironical that these organisations are to be asked to pay increased postal charges. For the life of me I cannot understand how we can regard the Budget as being a good measure when people in the community will have to suffer fairly heavily as a result of provisions contained in the Budget. I ask honourable senators to consider, for example, the Blue Nursing Service and what increased postal charges will cost that organisation each year. 
Yes, and a heavy telephone account. The situation will not be easy for organisations of this kind. Consider also some of the charitable organisations in Queensland. It will be difficult for an organisation such as the hospital for the aged at South Brisbane to meet these increased charges. There is nobody to whom it can pass on the increased charges, with the exception perhaps of inmates of the hospital. I think all honourable senators would agree that when people are sick and old that is not a time when they should have to worry about paying increased hospital fees. The Royal Brisbane Hospital is run by the Queensland Government, as is also the Princess Alexandra Hospital in Brisbane. Just imagine what it will cost them in additional postage and telephone charges. These organisations must continue to function and they must, have finance, so I suppose the Queensland State Government will have to meet the increases. Why should the public generally have to pay more for what they regard as an inferior service. 
I was interested to hear  Senator Young  say tonight that he had heard no criticism of the Post Office. All 1 can say of the honourable senator is that he must be a Robinson Crusoe. He would be the only person of whom I know who has heard no criticism of the services provided by the Post Office. He would be unique in Australia. I have heard several complaints about there being one delivery a day. I do not know whether the Minister has ever bad this experience, but again I speak from personal experience when i say that I have had to wait 3 minutes - J am not exaggerating - when trying to make a trunk line call in Brisbane from my private telephone, before anybody has answered the phone. If  Senator Young  believes that is a good service to the community, it is not my understanding of a good service. I repeat that there has been criticism and if  Senator Young  has not heard any criticism voiced then I repeat that he would be one of the few in Australia who have not been told of the inadequacies of the service. 
The general public, including age pensioners, will pay additional postage and this is added to the high cost of living that has been forced upon them as a result of the inflationary trend. I am just waiting for  Senator Greenwood  to say: 'That is because of high wages.' Unfortunately he is not here. I would like to debate that point with him on some occasion. The fact is that as a result of this legislation people will be asked to pay - and firms will be asked also - additional amounts for postage and telephone charges. We are not so much children of nature surely that we will expect firms to accept those charges and not pass them on to the public. They will be passed on to the public in some form or other. Quite likely the firms will estimate that it will cost them an extra, say, $50,000 a year for postage and telephone charges, so they will increase the price of their goods so that they gather an extra $100,000 a year to ensure that they are not on the losing end. 
Wages are frozen now. The Commonwealth Arbitration Court has frozen wages by having only an annual review. I do not want to digress into that field, other than to answer your comment. The situation is that firms will pass these increased charges on. To whom will they pass on the charges? It can only be the general public and so the public will have to pay those increased charges. Other measures in the Budget will force companies to increase the prices of their goods and commodities. Again these charges will be passed on to the public. So it is useless to say that these added costs will be of assistance to the public. 1 have approached the criticism of this legislation on those 3 planes. Other honourable senators have spoken on other fields, but I have contented myself with those 3 areas of disagreement. I repeat that I do not think that the Government is fully conscious of the effect these increased postal charges will have on the organisations to which I referred. I repeat that I think it is most unfair that we should have to debate a measure which increases charges to the community generally without having before us the profit made or the toss incurred by the Post Office for the preceding 12 months. It is unfortunate, to say the least. If we can take into consideration the fact that the Post Office made a profit of $4m in the previous year then I cannot for the life of me understand how it can be turned into an anticipated loss of $llm when we have been told of the efficiency of the Post Office in this direction. I content myself with those observations and support the amendment moved by  Senator Willesee. 
I wish to refer to a matter that has apparently escaped the attention of the Minister. Will she tell us what profit was made by the Australian Post Office last year? 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) (10.58) - This information was given previously, but I am not sure how long ago. The profit was $2m. 
Question put: 
That the clause stand as printed. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Is the Minister aware that the proposed increased postal charges in Australia will mean to the. publishers of a publication entitled 'The Plain Truth', which is published by the Ambassador College- 
 I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Have the Commonwealth Government and Queensland Government determined the formula to be applied for the rebate of rates for farms in drought stricken areas? Can the Minister indicate the brief details of the formula referred to and advise which Government, Federal or State, is responsible for the application of the formula? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Would the Minister have printed the following recommendation of the International Labour Organisation, in its publication Guide to Safety in Agriculture, and have it placed in a conspicuous place adjacent to existing silos and those constructed in the future: 
No person should enter a silo containing grain unless he is wearing a safety belt with a life line attached and another person should watch from outside at the top of the silo and thus be in a position to assist in pulling the worker out in case of danger, openings on the top of silos should be covered with gratings to prevent anyone falling in accidently, and silos should be provided with fixed ladders. 
I rise to support the remarks made by  Senator Willesee  and  Senator Webster  in relation to clause 6 of the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill.  Senator Willesee  referred to me as being an authority on the printing industry. I do not deserve such an embarrassment ofriches. I am only an ordinary fellow in the industry, but I think I have sufficient intelligence to know when something is going to injure the industry. I said last night that I do not think the Government is conscious of the repercussions of this Bill. It apparently has not considered at all what will happen after the extra charges for postal facilities have been imposed. For instance, tonight the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  who represents the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Hulme)  said that these increases would cost the Printing and Kindred Industries Union 3c a year extra because of the increased postal charges. That is a completely stupid argument, if I may say so without being offensive. The Printing and Kindred Industries Union publication is forwarded to its members free of charge. It is not charged for on  a  per issue basis at all. The members of that Union pay for that service in their annual contribution. Surely the honourable senator does not think the union will put up its annual dues by 3c to cover the iniquitous charges imposed as a result of this legislation. It is completely fallacious to approach the subject in that way. It has to be approached as a whole so that we can see what will happen.  Senator Murphy  has referred to the numerous letters he has received. I believe that would be true of the vast majority of senators. I have received innumerable requests in this regard, but there is one letter which appealed to me particularly. In case I will not be allowed to incorporate it in Hansard, I propose to read it. It is dated 18th September and is addressed to me. It reads: 
Dear  Senator, 
This letter is unique. It is the first that this wholly Australian, 34 year old Company has ever written to its Parliamentary members. 
The subject is the new postal charges which will operate on the handling of periodicals by the Post Office as from 1st October. The charges will place a staggering burden on an industry already beset by a torrent of competition from abroad. 
The overseas competition comes here duty-free. The Australian publisher is liable for duty on many of the materials he uses to produce a book or a magazine which may be exactly similar to those which come here duty-free. 
Our Company has received a notification from the postal authorities that all its publications have been placed in Category B and therefore subject to heavy increased charges when posted. 
The publications include: Australian House and Garden, Australian Country, Tailor and Men's Wear, The Textile Journal of Australia, Wheels, Australian Outdoors, Seacraft, Flair and others. 
Some of the publications are as well known as the metropolitan newspapers which remain in a favorable postal category. 
Perhaps that sentence is a little significant. The letter continues: 
Others are well known in the particular industry which they serve. 
All of them fall within categories of scientific, technical, news or rural interest but they have not been so classified by the postal authorities. 
The Company is no less affected than any other company in the publishing field in Australia, and it would be grateful for any effort which you might feel disposed to make to ensure that the industry as a whole receives justice in this matter of postal charges. 
For your information there are both registered and non-registered publications under the postal regulations. 
Registered publications are those which are sold by news vendors or subscription and which sell a prescribed proportion of their print run. Nonregistered publications are those which are distributed by Selective Circulation, i.e. to a specific number of recipients in an industry. Selective Circulation magazines are not paid for by the recipients but are budgetted on the basis of their advertising content. In the Selective Circulation category all magazines are highly technical tools in the industry they cover. 
You may be interested to know that the percentage increase in both periodical categories is in excess of 100 per cent. 
Naturally we have formally appealed, as no doubt have other publishers, against the increased postal charges. 
Our Company maintains a large printing works, the output of which could be expected todecline if some publications became unprofitable because of the increased postal charges. 
In many cases it will be cheaper to print overseas and distribute through the postage of the country in which the printer is located as do overseas journals whose procedures require distribution in Australia. Where previously only books were sent out of Australia for printing, a flow of magazines out of the country has now commenced. 
Some Australian publications which are contemplating printing in New Zealand may be mailed from there at 3 cents against 17 cents if printed and distributed in Australia. 
Perhaps you might find this letter important enough to stimulate further inquiry. At least you might feel it important enough to seek postponement of the operation of the new postal rates from 1st October to a date which will enable you to become possessed of all the relevant facts. 
Yours sincerely, 
The K.. G. Murray Publishing Co PtyLtd 
GERAGHTY 
General Manager 
That letter comes from an organisation which does not write letters of protest every day in the week. The opening words were: 'This letter is unique', lt is the first time in the 34 years that the company has been in operation that it has done anything of this nature. Surely a company with an Australian background and experience extending over 34 years would know what it was talking about in relation to the repercussions of these postal increases. Again 1 refer to the situation to which the Minister alluded tonight. She said that the Postal Department  -  I do not think 1 am misinterpreting what she said - lost $9m in relation to magazines and things of. this nature. But I do not think that item can be taken in isolation. The Post Office provides a community service. It is an organisation built up to give service to the people of Australia. We cannot look an item in isolation and say: 'We lost $9m here', and fail to look over the page where we can see that another section of this community service has made a profit of, say, S30m. In that case it is not losing. In those circumstances the Post Office has made a profit of $2)m. 
The fact that the Post Office is charged interest may have been investigated and ventilated in the Parliament on a previous occasion but to my knowledge it has never been questioned. Let me mention what is known in industry as notional interest. 1 have sworn evidence from a top official of the Treasury that the term 'notional interest' means nothing. No money changes hands. It is as though a man at the end of the year says: i have saved $20 this year, but if I had bought that suit that I intended to buy for $50 I would have been $30 down now'. Notional interest does not mean a thing. I have that on the sworn evidence of a top official of the Treasury. 
It is being put over the people of Australia that the Post Office is losing miLlions of dollars. It is not losing millions of dollars. The Post Office could be a successful enterprise, should be a successful enterprise and is a successful enterprise. How many times have we heard the Government parade the virtues of the Post Office and say what has been done to make it into an efficient machine? Yet, for all its efficiency and despite the fact that the work force of the Post Office has increased by only 1.1 per cent, the Government pre sents to the Parliament a Bill which will increase postal charges in some directions by up to 300 per cent. As 1 said last night, the Government is not conscious of the repercussions that its action will have in other sections of industry. 
I make a further charge, ft is being bandied around in many trade union circles that the Government wishes to see the end of the publication of union journals because they have been so critical of some of the Government's actions. Interjections last night from Government members and, to some extent, from the Minister herself, indicate to me strongly that the Government does not want the business that has been flowing to it from the trade unions. It does not want to handle the trade union periodicals. You then must ask yourself why a Government instrumentality set up in the interests of the people of Australia does not want business. Even if the handling of trade union journals was a losing proposition, as the Minister claimed it to be, what is a losing proposition when the education of the people of Australia is involved? I mentioned last night, and I repeat now, the charge that has been levelled at the Government by a number of trade unions that the Government wants to stifle criticism. That is why it is introducing such extortionate, unfair and iniquitous postal charges on trade union publications. 
I hope that the Government has been influenced sufficiently, if not by what has been said in the Parliament then at least by a number of its supporters, lo change its mind about this proposal,  if  the Government has not been influenced in that way then I hope that the honourable senator who normally supports the Government but who tonight criticised these postal charges, will back up his criticism by voting with the Opposition when the vote is taken on this clause. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What was the tonnage of (a) coal, and (b) bauxite produced in Queensland for the years ended 30th June 1969 and 30th June 1970. 
What tonnage of each of these minerals was (a) used in Queensland; and (b) exported from Queensland (i) for use in Australia, and (ii) for use overseas. 
asked the Minister  for Air, upon notice: 
What was the approximate number of air miles travelled by the 5 Phantom bombers on lease to the Royal Australian Air Force when flying from America to Amberley air base. 
Was refuelling of the Phantom bombers during the flight carried out by the use of tanker aircraft or by refuelling at airports. 
What is the approximate safe mileage that a Phantom bomber can fly without refuelling. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Statistician is currently undertaking a detailed study of the feasibility of establishing accurate comparisons of State industrial accident statistics, so that the national situation may be more accurately assessed; if so, will the Minister indicate the progress of such study and whether the report, when completed, will be made known to Parliament before it is implemented. 
Why, at this advanced stage in industrial regulation, is it only  now that  Australia-wide information in relation  to  industrial accidents  is  found to be inaccurate for  statistical  purposes. 
1 address a question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. As the current contract for printing the Queensland section of telephone books expires in 1972, have lenders been invited for the printing of books for subsequent years? If so, have applications closed and which firm was the successful tenderer? 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What methods are proposed to be employed against the importation of such sub-standard articles as certain plastic footwear presently being imported, in order that the Australian public may be protected. 
There are requirements under the Commerce (Imports) Regulations that imported non-rubber footwear be indelibly branded, on the outer surface of each sole, stating the material of which the soles are composed. The regulation was imposed by the Government to protect the interests of the consumers. 
A large proportion of the non-leather footwear sold in Australia is manufactured locally. Local consumers are therefore able to make a choice between the purchase of locally made or imported footwear. No doubt, the brand showing the material of construction of the soles would assist buyers to assess the quality and durability of imported footwear. 
The Tariff Board has recently made a report on the non-leather footwear industry which dealt in some detail with imports of plastic footwear. During the inquiry the Board received evidence on behalf of Australian manufacturers, overseas suppliers and local users. The Board's report, which was released on 4th August 1970, contained no reference to imports of sub-standard articles of footwear. 
I believe that Government senators have not faced the facts of life. We have heard them trying to justify the present position. 1 repeat that they have not faced the facts of life. The fact is that inflation is with us and prices are going up to a dangerous extent, ft is useless talking about a 35-hour week. It is useless to talk about what is happening in other countries. What we have to do is face the present situation here.  Senator Rae  said that inflation is not with us today and that he was quite proud of the fact that when compared with other countries Australia is not suffering from inflation. If that is his belief, he disagrees with the Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  The Treasurer said that we cannot give an increase of more than 50c to pensioners because of inflationary trends. If on the one hand  Senator Rae  says that we have a proud record of non-inflation in Australia and on the other hand the Treasurer of this country says that all we can give the pensioners is 50c a week,  Senator Rae's  argument falls to the ground. 
The honourable senator is not 'with' us.  His  only contribution was on the score that the Australian Labor Party and the workers of Australia were advocating a 35-hour week. What has happened since the introduction of the 40-hour week? Has there not been greater productivity? The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  said that all we need is greater productivity. We have had greater productivity but we have also had increased prices. That is the worry in Australia today. I submit that the matter of public importance raised for discussion is appropriate because it draws attention to this matter. 
Sentaor Gair - lt is badly drafted. 
Irrespective of the draftsmanship the fact remains that people in Australia today are saying that there should be price control and that prices should not rise to a point which makes it most difficult for a lot of people to live under the present circumstances. Consequently there should be price control. My friends on the Government side say that that is not correct. I suggest that they have a look at the situation. One of the biggest combines in Australia has recently indicated that it will not increase the retail prices of goods until such time as it is satisfied that the firms from which it is buying the goods have legitimate reasons for increasing the wholesale price. That is an indication that commerce is looking in the direction of price control. In Melbourne another firm has publicly announced that it will not increase the retail price of its goods until such time as an appropriate trade union approves of the increase. This is a further indication of the worry amongst all sections of the community in this direction. Consequently I repeat that it is timely that an urgency motion of this nature was debated. 
I am sorry that the Australian Country Party representatives are not on their feet supporting this proposition. How often do we hear from them the cry that the country people are at the end of the price squeeze and something must be done to protect them? Now the Australian Country Party representatives have an opportunity to say what they believe should be done for the country people. 1 look to their benches and I find that not one member of that Party is in the chamber at the present time. That indicates their regard for the welfare of the people they are supposed to represent. I suppose when and if a vote is taken they will vote against the urgency motion. The Government says that it is its philosophy and policy that one does not need any control over prices because competition will fix all these things. I accept that they are entitled to espouse their policy. But does it have the appropriate effect? I suggest it does not. Nearly every day one sees that prices on commodities are increasing notwithstanding the alleged competition which is supposed to exist among firms. For instance there is competition between the airlines. Have we seen an increase in the air fares to the people of Australia? 
As  Senator Bishop  indicates we have seen such an increase twice, ls there competition in the building industry? Of course there is. But has that kept the price of building down? 1 do not know about any other State but I suggest that in Queensland one could not build a wooden home under $1,000 a square. How can one suggest that competition will keep prices down when the fact of life is that there is competition but prices are going up? Honourable senators cannot have it both ways. Do not honourable senators think that the price of every day commodities will increase because of the 1970 Budget? Do they not think that local authorities will increase their prices? Who will pay these increased prices? The people of Australia will pay them. Until such time as we recognise that there are difficulties in Australia today we are just hiding our heads in the sand and refusing to acknowledge the facts of life. 
I notice a member of the Austraiian Country Party has turned up. As there is a demand for these commodities private industry has carried on. But the prices of these commodities have increased. Some supporters of the Government Parties almost faint when one talks about price control. Goodness me, our whole life is controlled from the moment we wake in the morning until we go to bed at night. We are controlled all the way through. Wages are controlled. 

 - Senator DrakeBrockman mentions the Labor Party. In the interests of this country 1 wish the Labor Party were controlling Australia today because people would have a far better standard of living. But that apart, the fact remains that if one requires transport one is controlled to the point that one has to pay a certain sum of money in order to reach one's destination. Wages are controlled. 1 ask honourable senators not to tell me that wages are not controlled today. They are controlled to the point where the workers' representatives have to go to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission each 12 months for that tribunal to determine whether workers will receive a wage increase, ls that not control? Are the workers representatives allowed to go to the Commission for a wage increase in between the annual periods of review? Of course they are not. Members of the Government say that that principle is correct. If it is correct, surely it is equally correct that prices of essential commodities should be controlled. Is it any wonder that workers become discontented with their lot in life when they see the prices of commodities increasing? 
I wonder whether any of the Government supporters appreciate the plight of a housewife who is endeavouring to budget on the wage she is receiving when there is an increase in the price of several commodities which will increase the cost of her husbandry by anything up to S2 a week.  Her  immediate reaction is to turn to her husband, the worker, who says: 'Well, I am going to sell my commodity.' lt is all right for  Senator Little  to talk about political disputes in industry. For every political dispute there are 99 genuine industrial disputes which will continue to be genuine unless the Government does what the Opposition is advocating today. It is no use honourable senators opposite trying to gloss over these serious government omissions by attacking the movement for a 35-hour week. 
can tell honourable senators of numerous employers who have granted their workers a 35-hour week in the past 5 years. I suggest that the honourable senators go and tell these employers that they are ruining this Australia of ours. These employers recognise that the improved methods of production justify a decreased working week and they are conceding it. Government supporters always say: 'Yes, we believe in a 35-hour week. We believe in the improvement of working conditions, but not just at this point.' We never arrive at the point where this is justified according to members of the Government. 
 The paucity of the representation of the Country Party today was demonstrated when  Senator Webster  asked me why a 35-hour week should be introduced.  Senator Sim  spoke about nothing but a 35-hour week. I am merely replying to him.  Senator Webster  might have had other business outside the Senate and did not want to listen to  Senator Sim.  1 listened to him. I know what he said about the 35-hour week, about workers generally and about rural workers in Western Australia not wanting a 40-hour week.  Senator Little  spoke of unjustified political strikes. I repeat that for every political strike there are 99 genuine industrial disputes. In this direction I support the workers. The motion is a timely and important one. The Government chooses to disregard the seriousness of the situation in Australia, the statements made by its members in the past - such as those of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  when he referred to inflationary trends - and the Speech of the Governor-General when he opened this Parliament. On pages 4 and 5 of his Speech, he said: 
Turning now to internal matters my Government believes that economic growth in Australia has continued strongly. 
Thus in the year to the September quarter 1969 gross national product increased by 11.7 per cent and the indications are that this strong growth rate is continuing. 
Full employment has been maintained and considerable expansion has taken place. Commerce and industry - apart from some rural industries - is prosperous. Pressures on costs and prices, though strong and persistent and requiring close attention, have for the most part been kept reasonably under control. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether his attention has been drawn to the words of an outstanding economist who stated: 
Wages are the largest element in costs but by no means the only one. Profit margins, interest rates, taxes and charges all have a direct part in determining cost levels within the economy and, proportionately, can do as much to raise costs as wage movements. At times also external factors. ... 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it a fact that the Commissioner of Taxation has ruled that a worker who is directed to transfer his employment temporarily to an income tax zone is denied the appropriate allowance unless the period of service is a minimum of 6 months? If so, will the Minister take up this matter with the Commissioner with a view to allowing a pro rata income tax allowance if the worker resides in the area for less than 6 months? 
My understanding is that the situation is as the honourable senator has outlined it. In view of the implications of the question, which suggests that a pro rata provision should be provided, I think that the matter should be referred to the Treasurer for a proper reply and I will do that. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. Has the Minister approved any proposals to ensure that as far as practicable a minimum of informal votes will be registered at the forthcoming Senate election? What methods are to be employed to give wide publicity to such proposals? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Postmaster-General's Department contemplates, in the immediate future, the downgrading from official status to non-official status, the post offices at Yandina, 
Eumundi, Landsborough, Palmwoods, Woodford. Yarraman and Woombye? If so, in view of the further restriction this will place on employment opportunities in country areas, will the Postmaster-General give serious consideration to reviewing such decisions and thus ensure better post office facilities for people residing in the aforementioned areas. 
Automatic telephone working has been introduced at Landsborough, Palmwoods and Woombye and is being planned for Yandina, Eumundi and Woodford. The remainder of the work at each of these post offices is relatively light and can be handled efficiently under non-official staffing arrangements. 
It is proposed to change these post offices to non-official status when the present staff have been suitably placed elsewhere after the introduction of automatic telephone working at each centre. Palmwoods will operate on a non-official basis from 1st November 1970 but no firm date has been set for any of the other offices. 
I should like to emphasise that the variation in status does not involve the withdrawal of any of the present services provided but is merely a change in the method of staffing the offices to one more appropriate to the level of business handled. There are many centres with a similar volume of traffic throughout the Commonwealth where a very good grade of service is being provided under non-official conditions. 
There are no plans at this stage to alter the status of the Yarraman Post Office. 
The Australian Labor Party has done much today to ventilate some of the weaknesses of this measure. Those honourable senators on the Government side who have participated in the debate have shown the Government's apathetic approach to the problem which has confronted the wool industry over many years. In almost every speech that they have made on this Bill they have told of the difficulties with which the wool growers have had to contend. But the Government took no action in an endeavour to remove those difficulties. Now at this late stage it has brought a measure before the Parliament. lt would be agreed, I am sure, that Australians owe much to the wool industry. It was said, to use a cliche, that Australia rode on the sheep's back. Therefore it is astounding that the Government has allowed the industry to get into the parlous position in which it is today without 30 October 1970 having taken adequate precautions to protect it. Members of the Austraiian Labor Party have mentioned today the warnings that were given to the Government of the difficulties which would confront the industry. As far back as 1965  Sir William  Gunn stomped the country advocating a scheme which he and some of his supporters believed would be in the interests of the wool industry.  Senator Douglas  Scott today referred to that episode and indicated that he was a supporter of that proposition, but I remind honourable senators that the Government took no active part in the campaign. Instead it allowed the campaign to deteriorate to such an extent that one of the most important figures in the wool industry was ridiculed. It allowed the Press of Australia to say things that the Government knew to be untrue but it took no active part to assist the promotion of a scheme which the leaders of the industry knew would be to the advantage of the industry and, consequently, of Australia. Therefore, can we not seriously challenge the Government with allowing the industry to drift into the position in which it is today? 1 remind the Senate of the words of Country Party members who have told of the difficulties that have existed in the industry for many years. The Government did not take any action in an endeavour to reduce or remove them. 
At this stage I want to correct an impression that  Senator Young  has about something that was said by  Senator Cant. Senator Cant  made the positive statement that  Sir William  Gunn stomped this country in support of a reserve price scheme.  Senator Young  said a moment ago that  Senator Cant  had made no such statement. J have checked with  Senator Cant  and he has told me that be has referred to the Hansard report of his speech and he has found that he did make that statement. The Government stands condemned for having allowed one of the leading figures in the wool industry to be vilified in the way in which  Sir William  Gunn was vilified. It stands condemned for having allowed the leaders of the wool industry to advocate a proposition and then, knowing that proposition to be the correct one to adopt, refusing to take the lead in advocating it. The Government stands condemned by the words of its own supporters who now claim that it is timely that this measure should be introduced. We of the Australian Labor Party believe that it was timely for the measure to be introduced many years ago because it was obvious to all of us that the industry was deteriorating into such a position that it would be impossible to retrieve it. 
If I inject that into the discussion it may be regarded as being political. However, as  Senator McClelland  has said, shortly afterwards  Sir William  Gunn contested a pre-selection ballot for the Country Party but so much bitterness was directed towards him by some people in that Party that he was rejected. 
I am not suggesting that it has anything to do with the argument but the same situation could confront  Senator Webster  on the next occasion that he seeks endorsement. 1 now wish to bring before the attention of the people of Australia the cavalier way in which the Government has introduced this measure. All Government supporters say that it is most important, but I wonder whether the people of Australia know that it was introduced into another place at 8 o'clock last Wednesday night and that the Government required its passage by Thursday, leaving approximately 24 hours in which to discuss an important measure of this nature. It came into the Senate yesterday, and the Government tried to push it through yesterday. But, because of opposition from the Australian Labor Party senators, the Government was required to hold it over until today. Here again the Opposition has had only 24 hours in which the consider all features of the Bill and to explain to the Government why it believes that certain features of the Bill are wrong. We regard this as one of the most important pieces of legislation to come before us. Yet this national Parliament has not had sufficient time to make known its views by an exhaustive examination of the provisions of the Bill. 
  Senator Douglas  Scott said that we criticised the Bill in order to cast doubts. The way we listened to him in silence should indicate to him that we respect his point of view. ( hope that he will respect our point of view when we say that we are not endeavouring to create doubts; we are endeavouring to show some of the weaknesses of the Bill. If we thought that the Bill was not to the advantage of Australia we would oppose its passage. But, in point of fact, we believe that it will assist in some directions, although it will go nowhere near as far as it should. Consequently, we do not oppose its passage. But we do have a responsibility. So, we cannot be charged with carelessness when we point out to the people of Australia what we believe are the deficiencies in the Bill. 
I think the people of Australia also should know that we have no indication whatsoever of the cost of this legislation. No-one is able to judge accurately or even to estimate how much will be required to be paid by the people of Australia as a result of this legislation. I submit that, had there been more time to prepare the Bill and had more thought been given to its preparation, some of these matters could have been included for consideration by the people. I wonder why the Government acted so hurriedly. I suggest that it has taken a keener interest in this aspect of this important industry since the Australian Labor Party, through  Dr Rex  Patterson, presented its policy. Surely it is significant that  Dr Rex  Patterson presented our policy on the rehabilitation of the wool industry and then the Government became interested and felt that it could do something for the industry. 1 repeat that it was the Government's responsibility to do something for the industry years ago, but it failed to take the initiative in that direction. lt has been said that there is collusion by the Japanese wool buyers.  Mr Anthony  has denied that there is such collusion. But no-one has explained why the price of wool has dropped. Therefore, one can only believe that there has been such collusion. Whether this measure will overcome that difficulty, I do not know, nor, I suggest, does anybody else. Perhaps it is too late to do even that. The fact remains that the price of wool has dropped to an alarming level. The Government cannot blame the drought because the drought has been with us for many years. If it wants to blame the drought, surely it could have done something about it before this. Whether the  measure  will be successful we know not. The members of the Australian Labor Party, in the interests of the wool industry and the people of Australia, trust that the Commission will be successful. 
I repeat that it is a tragedy that at this late stage Australia should have been left in the position of having the Government introduce a Bill which should have been introduced many years ago and which should have been examined more exhaustively. The Government failed to recognise the dangers that were apparent to all. lt is to the credit of the wool growers that they, finding themselves in such an alarming position, got together and, with a united front, demanded that the Government do something in this direction. 1 believe that history will record that this has been a chapter of national disaster, inefficient government and adoption of a couldnotcareless attitude by a government that prides itself on business efficiency. If the Government claims that with business efficiency it has allowed this industry to reach the level at which it is today, I suggest with respect that it is not business efficiency at all. 
The Australian. Labor Party will not oppose the provisions of the Bill, believing that something is better than nothing. But I have indicated that that will not stop our criticising constructively the provisions of the Bill, even though it must be recognised that insufficient time is available to examine them exhaustively. How can one make an unclean thing clean? We believe that the Bill is unclean. We believe that it is unclean in that it does not do the job that is required. In order to bring it to a standard that we believe would be to the advantage of Australia, it would be necessary to put it through the cleaner several times. It will take years to do that. The way in which the Government introduced the Bill would indicate that, to some extent, it has been drafted hastily as well. The second reading speech contains this statement: 
The  Chairman  would be appointed by the Minister after consultation with the Australian Wool Board. 
If any honourable senator thinks he can point to a provision of the Bill which says  that the  Chairman  will be appointed by the Minister after consultation with the Australian Wool Board, I will be pleased if he will do so. There is no provision for that in the Bill. 1 suggest that that is a further indication that the Bill was drawn together hastily. 1 do not think that is the way in which the business of this Parliament should be done. The members of the Australian Labor Party will submit amendments to the Bill at the Committee stage. I trust that the Government will examine the amendments that are submitted. I trust that it will find merit in them, as indeed it should, and that it will accept the amendments and accept the fact that we are doing our very best to criticise the Bill constructively and at the same time to improve it by means of amendments. 
On Friday last during the debate on the Australian Wool Commission Bill I questioned the interpretation placed by  Senator Young  on a statement made by  Senator Cant.  On checking the record I have found that  Senator Young's  interpretation is correct. I therefore offer to him and to honourable senators my apology. 
I direct my question lo the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the fact that Government representatives claim that reduced working hours inevitably mean increased costs, does this mean that the Government intends to increase from 37) hours to 40 hours the working week for all Commonwealth public servants? 
The honorable senator's question has no relevance to the questions asked and the answers that have been given about a shorter working week. 
1 join with my colleagues in denouncing the Government for its activities tonight. I have only been in this Senate for 2 years. I believed that when 1 came into the Senate I would see some type of democracy at work. Tonight I have seen democracy at work and it has been prostituted democracy. How could any government stand up to criticism of the fact that the Minister rises to his feet and then the Opposition is denied the right to question any point on an estimate? Tonight I had questions to ask on repatriation matters which affected returned servicemen. I believed that I had justification in raising these issues. I believed that the Government  -  I would have attempted to prove it - has denied its own promise in relation to a section of ex-servicemen. Because of the despicable action of the Government I have been unable to raise my voice on behalf of these people of whom the Government says what wonderful fellows they are. The Government has also had the support of the Australian Democratic Labor Party in this direction. Several of us know what  Senator Gair  thinks of returned servicemen - of people who have volunteered their life to go to war. He is on record as saying that they have gone to war merely to avoid their obligations at home. If the opinion of the Government coincides with that of  Senator Gair  it places itself in exactly the same position as  Senator Gair  is in. I repeat that I believe we have seen democracy denied tonight. 
I have heard Government supporters criticise the conduct of trade unions in relation to their ballots and in the conduct of their affairs. I am proud that 1 have been associated with the trade union movement almost all my working life. But had any trade union attempted to carry out its business in the same shameful manner as the Government has carried out the business of the national Parliament tonight, 1 believe anybody would be entitled to criticise that trade union movement. But no trade union would deny its members the right to express a point of view. I repeat that 1 have been connected with the trade union movement for a large number of years and I am proud of having been connected with it, but if I were a supporter of the Government I would be ashamed of the antics which went on tonight. 
 I wish to raise  2  matters under the Appropriation Bill (No.  2).  I refer firstly to Division  861,  item  01,  employment training scheme for women. It is noted that this is the first year that an appropriation has been allocated for this purpose. I was under the impression that this department had been established for some time. Apparently if it has been operating in the past it has been operating under another appropriation. If I am incorrect in saying that it has been established for some time it appears to me that the Department of Labour and National Service has been rather tardy in its approach to an employment training scheme for women. The International Labour Organisation in  1964  laid down the guidelines for employment for women in the changing world. It did this, I believe, quite successfully, and I am surprised that this is the first occasion on which there has been a specific amount allocated for that purpose. The Minister may be able to explain why. I was under the impression that during the sittings of the Estimates Committee;  Dr Cook  said that the scheme had been operating for some time. i refer next to Division  855,  subdivision  1,  item  04,  which relates to the Department of Civil Aviation. There is an allocation of  $1,274,300.  Does this comprehend that we will be proceeding with resumptions of land for the Eagle Farm Airport in Brisbane? I know that there have been discussions by the property officer in Queensland with residents in that area. I pay a tribute to the way he has approached this question of the resumption of properties. He has gone to the people concerned and discussed the matter with them. I believe that as a result of that the way will be paved for a much smoother resumption of properties than is usually the case in matters of this nature. I draw the attention of the Minister to the fact that for so long have we in Brisbane put up with the igloo type of airport buildings. They are a joke. Over the past  3  years there have been alterations to the airport, and the Department of Works is in the process of again making substantial alterations to the Eagle Farm Airport. This has caused considerable inconvenience to the staff at the airport. My principal concern is for them. But it has caused considerable inconvenience to passengers also. The Minister may be able to explain how far we have advanced with the resumption of properties for the extension of Eagle Farm and when we can hope to get into the building operations for that purpose. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing)  (10.48)  -In reply to  Senator McClelland,  it is quite true that, as he said, the matter he raised was very intensively discussed in the Estimates Committee. During the Committee bearings he received a lot of information of which I know he was appreciative. He mentioned the Australian content of radio and television programmes. I think it would be worthwhile to remind him of the Australian Broadcasting Commission's contribution to Australian drama and Australian programmes generally. In the year  1969-70  the ABC's transmission of Australian programmes amounted to  52.5  per cent of its total output. A summary of these matters is contained on page  53  of the ABC's annual report to the Parliament. 

 Senator McCelland also asked for details of the amount of $900,000 provided for television studios under Division 925, subdivision 6, item 04. This programme includes: Gore Hill, Sydney, $686,000; Ripponlea studio, Melbourne, $143,000; Darwin, Northern Territory, $145,000; minor works all States, $70,000. The cash required during 1970-71 for these works and works commenced in 1969-70 is $900,000. The complete programme regarding television studios is set out on page 72 of the document entitled 'Civil Works Programme 1970-1971'. Works in progress account for $776,637 and proposed new works are expected to cost $1,044,000. Estimated expenditure for 1970-71 is $900,000. The appropriation is controlled by the Department of Works. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to recent reports in 'The New York Times' from the American Central Intelligence Agency indicating that the Saigon Government, Army, and police force are so riddled with espionage agents that the Administration's Vietnamisation programme is in jeopardy and indeed will not suceed; if so, does the Australian Government regard the contents as sufficiently serious to make a statement on the issues involved so that the people of Australia can be made aware of the situation? 
I refer  Senator Milliner  to my answer to Question No.783 (Hansard. page 1849). 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service make the necessary inquiries to ensure that copies of the National Service Act and Regulations are available in metropolitan and country areas for those who want to purchase such documents? Will the Minister ensure that his officers in the respective States make available private consulting rooms so that young men may discuss their individual problems in private with officers of the Department? 
1 direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the severity of the effects of drought being experienced by many property owners in country areas of Queensland, will he make representations for loans to be made available at low interest rates to those who desire to borrow money for the purposes of re-stocking, land clearing, water conservation and matters of this nature? 
-I move: 
That the Senate considers that the Government has shown a contemptuous disregard for Parliament in regard to its lifting the partial ban on the export of merino rams. 
I move this motion on behalf of the Opposition because 1 believe it is time that the Senate asserted its rightful role in democracy. I have no intention of traversing all the history associated with the lifting of the ban on the export of merino rams but I would remind honourable senators that the matter has been before the Senate on 2 previous occasions. On both those occasions the majority of senators was in favour of proposals emanating from the Australian Labor Party. I strongly support the proposition presently before the Senate. I repeat that I have no intention whatsoever of traversing the rights or wrongs of the decision of the Senate. What 1 am concerned about, and I believe very senator should be equally concerned about, is the fact that the Executive has held the Senate in contempt by its actions in exporting merino rams in spite of a decision of honourable senators to the contrary. 
I recall that this is not the first occasion on which this has happened. I recall that on an occasion when the Parliament made a decision in relation to the siting of the new and permanent Parliament House the Executive went against that decision. Honourable senators were most incensed at the decision of the Executive to the point that Government supporters were most critical of the action of the Executive. I submit, with respect, that a similar set of circumstances exists in Australia today. I propose to read some of the motions that have been debated in the Senate. The debates on these motions occupied approximately 6 hours, is it suggested that a decision which was arrived at after 6 hours debate is not the expressed will of the Senate? I remind honourable senators of the other occasion on which they believed the Executive had flouted the will of the Senate, and I suggest they should take a similar stand on this occasion. [ therefore invite those who feel that the Executive has overridden the decision of the Senate to vote in support of the provisions of this motion. 
Let me repeat that the matter has been before the Senate on at least 2 previous occasions when it occupied at least 6 hours of the Senate's time. First of all, I refer to the debate on 22nd April 1969 when  Senator Poyser  moved: 
That the Senate is of opinion that the embargo on the export of merinos should not be removed at this time. 
He then sought leave to add to that motion these words:  and that the embargo should remain in force until a majority of those persons affected shall decide by referendum or other fair means in favour of removing or relaxing the embargo. 
Some may say that that was a motion of persuasion, that there was no direction in it. But let me remind honourable senators that that motion was subsequently carried. Be it a persuasion or be it a direction it was nevertheless the expressed wish of the Senate. Let me take that a step further and refer to the debate that occurred on 21st April 1970, almost 12 months later. Again the Senate discussed the same topic. The motion moved on that occasion reads: 
The desirability of maintaining an embargo on the export of merino rams until a majority of those persons affected shall decide by referendum or other fair means in favour of removing or relaxing the embargo. 
It is a similar motion and it has the ingredient of asking the Government to conduct a plebicite of wool growers to ascertain whether it was their desire that the ban should be lifted. 
Many people have different ideas as to whether the ban should be lifted. At this point of time I do not think we should concern ourselves with that aspect of it. We should concern ourselves with whether the Executive has overridden the decision of the Senate. No vote was taken on 21st April 1970. But let me remind honourable senators that a sufficient number of honourable senators indicated they were in support of the proposition to carry the resolution. Speaking on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  Senator McManus  said: 
The Democratic Labor Party supports the motion. We supported a similar motion when it was put forward about 12 months ago. Nothing has happened to alter our previous attitude since the decision of the Senate was arrived at on that occasion to oppose the lifting of the ban on the export of merino rams. In fact, earlier this year when the Government announced that it proposed to lift the ban the Democratic Labor Party, through its Leader  Senator Gair,  protested publicly and said that the ban should not be lifted. 
It would be obvious to a!) that a motion expressing the wish of the Senate would be carried, and that was ultimately put to the test. I now refer honourable senators to a debate which took place on 29th April 1969. The  President  put the motion and the motion was carried. It is true that it was carried by a slight majority but nevertheless it was carried. It does not matter whether it was carried by one vote or by 51 votes; the fact remains that it became a decision of the Senate and should have been observed and not overridden by the Executive. 
Just what will be the position if the Executive continues to override the wishes of the Senate? Are we to accept this or are we to stand and say: 'This is a democratic institution. The will of the senators has been expressed after 6 hours debate; yet we find the Executive overriding such decisions.'? Everybody knows what has happened since the Government, by surreptitious methods, exported merino rams to other parts of the world. I do not have to tell honourable senators that the majority of people throughout Australia are horrified that the Executive should override a decision of Parliament in this way. If I were speaking politically I could refer to the fact that this Government, which accuses the Australian Labor Party of having an association with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, approved of our Royal Australian Air Force servicing planes so that merino rams could, be sent to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Just imagine the situation if we of the Australian Labor Party had been in government and had said: 'We intend to export rams to the USSR'. We would have been accused of using every possible political trick. Members of- the present Government parties would have accused us of being traitors to this country. 
I say to honourable senators opposite that that is the very position in which the Executive has placed them on this occasion. I submit that the will of the Parliament must prevail over that of the Executive. If it does not, we will have a situation in which the members , of the Executive will be the only ones running the country. I think  Senator Greenwood  interjected that the Senate is not the Parliament; but it is a unit of the Parliament. If he does not regard it as a strong unit" of the Parliament and will not stand up for its rights, I say to him with respect "that he is denying the role of the Senate in the government of Australia. 
I nsk honourable^ senators in their own interests, if for no other reason, to carry this motion in order to show the Executive of this country that a decision of- the Senate is supreme over any decision the Executive may care to make. If honourable senators opposite do not help us to carry this motion, then woe .betide them, because on any occasion on which they carry a motion the Executive will be able to ride over them in complete disregard of their wishes,  aDd  consequently democracy will be at the crossroads. I commend the motion to honourable senators. I ask them to vote not on whether it is in the interests of Australia that merino rams should be exported but on whether they agree that the Executive has overridden the expressed wish of the Senate and therefore has been contemptuous of the parliamentary system of Australia. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior agree that it could be to the advantage of all concerned if mobile polling booths were provided at private and public hospitals, aged persons homes and similar institutions throughout the Commonwealth for use at federal elections? If the Minister approves of the proposal, will he give favourable consideration to its implementation? 
Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate indicate  whether the Government has any intention of implementing the decision of the Senate which called for a substantial increase in pensions, which have been severely eroded as a result of the economic position in which Australia finds itself today? 
Has the Minister for Supply any misgivings concerning the future of the joint British-Australian Woomera rocket range following the financial collapse of Rolls-Royce Ltd? Is this financial collapse likely to affect the future of the Woomera rocket range? 
The short answer to the honourable senator's question is no, I have no misgivings. I made a statement yesterday about the Woomera rocket range. 1 think that towards the end of that statement I pointed out that I had had discussions whilst in London with the Minister for Supply and Technology in the Heath Government in relation to a further renewal of the United Kingdom-Australia agreement for the rocket range. I have every confidence in the future of the range. In relation to the Rolls-Royce situation, there are some elements in the pipeline which will have to be worked out in terms of where it will all finish. It is too early to know that, but the Rolls-Royce situation does not in any way challenge the validity, the efficacy or the value of the range, or indeed the vast contracts that we have for various engines and so on. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the existence of a substantial stockpile of woo] purchased by the Australian Wool Commission since it commenced operations, will the Minister indi cate whether he is satisfied that the technical competence of the Commission's staff to organise the flexible reserve price scheme is of a sufficiently high standard? Further, will he indicate whether he suspects that buyers are deliberately endeavouring to out-manoeuvre the Commission? 
Like the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (.Senator Murphy)  I wish to voice my opposition to the proposed amendment. I believe that it is illconceived: it is most certainly ill-considered because it was brought into the chamber this morning with a flurry and people were running around the chamber trying to win support from those honourable senators who might purport to be their political opponents but in truth are their political friends. My main objection to the proposed amendment is the insult it offers to the student commune In the Bill the Government is prepared to concede that students have a right lo participate in the control of a university. The proposed amendment insults students by suggesting that they would put forward one oF their number who is unworthy of their confidence. I submit, wilh respect, that that is a ridiculous situation. 
The proposed amendment contains the words, 'has a sense of responsibility and a regard for the good name of the university'. Who is to determine the standard of responsibility required in relation to the words 'has a. sense of responsibility'? A student may wish to associate himself with the conduct of affairs within a university, but at the same time he may rebel against a decision that has been made. He may take appropriate action by organising people to reject that decision. Would those in authority believe that he was acting with a sense of responsibility. If they wanted lo get rid of him or did not want him associated wilh control of the university they would automatically say that he had no sense of responsibility or regard for the good name of the university, notwithstanding that he may have a legitimate right to oppose a decision of someone in authority 
The proposed amendment also contains the words, 'which would be manifested for example in a rejection of crude pornography'. Again, who is to determine what is crude pornography? What may be crude pornography to one elder of a university may be quite acceptable to others. What constitutes crude pornography becomes an individual determination I have no wish to support anybody who circulates crude pornography. lt is objectionable to me and, I believe, to the vast, majority of honourable senators. However, what may be regarded by some as crude pornography may not be so regarded by others. 
I have heard  Senator Young  on this type of thing before. I have heard pious resolutions from him and others, but if they had an opportunity to see some crude pornography, smutty pictures or anything like that they would be running around to the toilet to study it. On more than one occasion  1  have seen them do these things. Do not worry about the pure intentions of some honourable senators opposite. Will they say in this chamber that they have never had a look at crude pornography? 1 fail to hear an answer to that. 
1  do not peddle or worry about crude pornography. 
 I challenge you again: Have you ever had a look at crude pornography? 
 Then according to the proposed amendment you are not fit to be in the Senate. If you support the proposed amendment you are saying that a university student who has had a look at crude pornography is not fit to lake part in the councils of a university, but you admit that you have read crude pornography and it consequently follows that you should not be a member of this Parliament. The proposal is offensive to students generally, lt is offensive to lads who probably would become responsible leaders of the student group and probably would participate in its upper councils. 
In the past I have known of instances in which words such as those of the proposed amendment have been applied so indiscriminately that it has not been funny. I have known of apprentices who, after having been granted their apprenticeship papers, have had them cancelled because it was subsequently discovered that they had pinched some water melons when they were kids, and had been convicted but not fined. Honourable senators opposite may say that that is not true. I say with respect that it is true, and it happened on more than one occasion. Those are the things that worry me. I am sorry that the Government has committed itself to accepting the proposed amendment. 1 believe that it will regret its action in years to come. 
As the Australian Labor Party does not oppose the passage of the Sugar Agreement Bill I consider it unnecessary to speak at length on its provisions. However there are one or two aspects which I wish to examine. In the course of my remarks I want to refer to the way in which members of the coalition Government speak of the Sugar Agreement. When they speak of it they give all the praise to the present Ministers. I want to remind them of their reading of history because it is an established fact that since the 1920s successive Queensland Labor Premiers have carried on the traditions of the Sugar Agreement to the advantage of Queensland and obviously of Australia. Their understanding of the origin of the Agreement is limited as, I submit with respect, is their understanding of its operations. They speak with great enthusiasm of present day Ministers who, in their opinion, have done so much to advance the interests of the sugar industry but rarely do they praise and give credit to those in the State particularly those who have had so much to do with the Agreement. 
I do not wish to take any credit from any member of the Federal Government or of the Federal Ministry, particularly  Sir John  McEwen who has done a good job on this issue. Nevertheless he merely had to improve on the foundations of an excellent agreement. Whilst I pay tribute to the work he has done I also pay tribute to those in the State sphere who had done so much before him. It is obvious to me that members of the Federal Government know little of the organisation of the industry because again they speak in glowing terms of the organisation of the industry. If only they knew it they are speaking in glowing terms of socialism because this industry has shown the way socialism can work to the advantage of ail concerned. The industry has worked and will continue to work in the future with the socialism element. If honourable senators do not accept what I say then I shall read a section of the second reading speech of the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Nixon).  It reads as follows: 
The text of the 1969 Agreement as subscribed to subsequently by the 2 governments and as now contained in the Bill before honourable senators is consistent with what the Prime Minister said. For example, under the new Agreement, which will run for 5 years, the State of Queensland - 
That means the Government -  on the one hand, will continue to control the production of raw sugar and will make available, as a matter of priority and at stated maximum wholesale prices, refined sugar and sugar products to meet Australian needs. The Commonwealth of Australia, on the other hand, will continue its embargo on the importation of sugar and of the sugar products, golden syrup and treacle. The maximum domestic wholesale prices for sugar and sugar products as were prescribed in the Supplemental Sugar Agreement 1967 have been continued under the new Agreement. 
That is an example of government working with people in the industry, regulating the supply of sugar as it is required by the demand from the world. I wish something of that nature had happened in the wool growing industry. If it had it would not be in the parlous situation it is in today. How much sugar will be produced is determined when we ascertain the demands of the world. Then we strike the amount which is required to be grown. I suggest to honour able senators that if they examine the industry they will find that quite clearly it has the socialist element and it has had it ever since the Agreement was originally formed. 
That was in 1919- 1920. 
It was the Labor Government. Whilst I take no credit from those who in recent years have been responsible for this Agreement, I pay great tribute to those who were responsible for it in its formative years. We recognise that they were the architects and builders of the present Agreement and we appreciate how important the Agreement is to Queensland and Australia. Under the Agreement we earn millions of dollars, which is to the advantage of Australia. 
In the sugar industry supply is rigidly controlled to meet demand. This control, which is exercised by people working in the industry and by the State and Federal governments, is to Australia's advantage all the way through. I should mention also that in 11 years there has been one increase only in the price of sugar in Australia. When we consider that this increase was of lc per lb and when we consider also the increased costs brought about by inflation during that period we realise that the industry is on a very sound basis. It has been estimated, although I have not proof of these figures, that the costs borne by cane farmers have increased by 26 per cent over that period of 11 years. I repeat that it is to the credit of all those concerned in the industry that notwithstanding the inflationary trend the price of sugar in Australia has increased by only lc per lb in 11 years. The main reason for this stability in the industry is that production is tailored to demand, in addition to which there is a continuing examination of all aspects of the industry in order to make it more efficient. The industry has geared itself to mechanisation, which again is to the advantage of the industry and to Australia generally. 
I have found from talking to some of the cane farmers with small assignments that inflation has been a real problem for them. Apparently they will continue to find it so. But this is no fault of the industry. They have told me that their main problem is brought about by the cost of parts for machinery and that it is the increased cost of those parts which is affecting them more than anything else. One cane farmer told me that parts for his machines have increased in price by as much as 80 per cent over the last 10 years. That is a substantial increase to be borne by a grower on a small assignment. I believe that Australia would be in a favourable position today if the wool industry adopted a pattern similar to that provided for in the Sugar Agreement and tailored its output to the demands of the industry. 
Notwithstanding the fact that the sugar industry has progressed, I believe that it would have been in a far better position if governments in the past had given greater consideration to water conservation. The only time we talk about water conservation is during periods of drought, but when we have rain people seem to forget all about it. Recently in Queensland there has been an abundance of rain in many areas in which we need it, particularly in the coastal areas. Yet millions of gallons of water have run away through the rivers to the sea. It is a national disaster when we see good precious rainwater running away to the sea to be wasted when, within a few short years, we will require additional water. Any honourable senator who has seen the cane farms in the area around Bundaberg will know how great is their demand for water. Not only the cane farmer but all people in the surrounding area depend on water for their livelihood. 
Two years ago, because of the shortage of water, the crop had to be turned into the ground. There is no diversification of industry in that area, as a result of which the whole area is dependent on a good season for sugar. In the years to come we will pay for our neglect to conserve the water which is available to us. I suppose that in the future there will be problems associated with the European Economic Community and that if Great Britain joins the European Common Market we in Australia will be in difficulties in a substantial number of our industries. It will be interesting to see how the Sugar Agreement will be phased out in the event of Great Britain's joining the ECM. Cane growers have expressed great alarm about their future. Because there has been no diversification of crops and they have relied solely on sugar, if Britain enters the ECM their future may be in jeopardy. Nevertheless, because of the way in which they have conducted the industry in the past, we have every reason for confidence that they will be able to adjust themselves to the requirements of the future. 
Before I conclude I should like the Minister to inform me why it has taken so long for this measure to come before the Senate. It was introduced in another place on 4th March 1969 and it is an important Bill, not only to Queensland but to the whole of Australia. I fail to understand how the Government could have allowed almost 12 months to elapse before bringing the measure before Parliament again. 
 It is true that there have been disagreements, but also there have been leisurely recesses. Honourable senators might recall that the parliamentary session last year finished in about: November. The Opposition asked that the Parliament continue to meet, but the Government said no, and so we adjourned until February. Yet many honourable senators, including Government supporters, wished to continue the session to attend to the business of Australia. The Government was able, by sheer weight of numbers, U&gt; say: 'No, we have finished the session, and we will recommence when we believe that we should do so.' As a result of developments within the last day or two I suppose that some Government supporters would suggest that it would have been better had Parliament not recommenced until about August or September this year. Nevertheless, I believe that the Government owes tothe Parliament and to the people of Australia some explanation why a measure which is known to be so important to Australia should be introduced in March 1969- and not brought on again for a period of 12 months. On behalf of the Opposition I indicate that we offer no opposition to the Bill. However, we do offer the criticism, that I have levelled. I trust that the SugarAgreement will be of advantage to thecane growers of Queensland and to the advantage of Australia as a whole. 
I direct a question to either the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport or the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service because the matter may come under the safely division of the Department of Labour and National Service. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether machinery used for the discharge of cargoes on wharves in Australia is examined regularly by any safety officer prior lo its operation? Is he aware that cargo weighing 25 tons fell from a ship at the Newstead wharf on Monday afternoon last? Will he make available a copy of the report that should be submitted on the reasons for such accident? 
-I ask the Minister for Air whether he will table in the Senate details of the use of VIP aircraft by Commonwealth Ministers for the period from 1st January 1971 to 28th February 1971 inclusive. Will he regard the implementation of this request as urgent? 
I move: 
That the  Senate  take note of the  statement. 
I believe it would be wrong on an occasion such as this if the Senate did not express its deep sympathy to the relatives of those young people who were drowned in such tragic circumstances on the' night of 26th January 1971. The tragic circumstances on this night are indicative of what can happen when the elements take over. No matter how man tries to prevent accidents of this nature, nevertheless he is in the hands of the elements when flash floods occur such as the one on this occasion. I believe I would be expressing the thoughts of all honourable senators when I say how sorry I am that the tragedy occurred. We extend our sympathy to the relatives of the deceased. 
However, I believe that some aspects of the disaster must give cause for some concern. In the statement presented by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  he refers to some points made in the Coroner's statement. 1 believe it is worthy that 1 should repeat that section. It reads: 
The drainage system in the Woden Valley was designed to flood from time lo time, and water beyond the capacity of the drains was lo be accommodated in the greenbelt and road systems adjacent to the drains. The Department of Interior and Commissioner of Police were not advised by the National Capital Development Commission that the causeway at the Melrose Drive, Yamba Drive intersection was likely to flood, and that Hit  adpacent  roads would be subject to floodwaters from time to time: and it was contemplated by the National Capital Development Commission that the intersection and road system would be under the control of the police, or some authority, when danger to the public was imminent. 
I believe that the Coroner's finding in that direction - that is, that there had been neglect in that authorities were not warned of dangerous areas in the national capital of Australia - is a condemnation of liaison that has existed between the National Capital Development Commission, the Government and the Police Department. 
Well, lack of liaison. I am not speaking in a political sense when I say that. This is not an occasion when one should go into political thoughts. But I believe that it is important that the Senate should note that there has been the insufficiency of detailed examination of dangerous areas in the Australian national capital. I deplore the fact that this had not been done earlier and so possibly - possibly, I say - prevent this catastrophe. 
I also refer to the Minister's statement where he refers to the recommendations made by the Coroner. The Coroner recommended: 
If they have not already done so, the Commissioner of Police and Department of Interior should establish immediately a system which will enable potential areas of danger in the Woden Valley to be brought under police control before danger to the public arises. 
I submit it is a little late to make that statement. Nevertheless, it may prevent similar tragedies in the future and I trust that the Coroner's finding in that particular aspect will be brought to the attention of the Police Department. In addition, I further believe that the NCDC should be required to report on these aspects to the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory so that we as the custodians of the rights of the people may be satisfied in that aspect and have an opportunity to express an opinion as to whether the NCDC has gone sufficiently far in alerting the Police of any dangerous points that may exist when disasters such as flood waters come upon us. 

 Mr Deputy President, 1 believe that one aspect of the Coroner's statement is a little ambiguous. I refer to folio 280 of the findings where the Coroner says: 
There is no evidence of any significant waves or walls of water, save that it is possible that a wave about 2 feet high above the general level of the floodwaters may have caused Margaret Smith to lose her grip on the rail, and there was evidence of a 4 foot wall of water striking a police motor vehicle in Yarra Glen south of the Carruthers Street overpass. 
To my way of thinking, that is an unusual type of finding to pinpoint in evidence of this nature. He says there were no significant waves but yet later in the same paragraph he says there was evidence of a 4 foot wall of water striking a police motor vehicle. From our point of view, I believe this is unsatisfactory. I am sorry that we will not be able to have an opportunity perhaps to find an explanation Tor what I consider to be an unusual paragraph in a finding. 
I close by repeating that J believe that all honourable senators would like to extend their deepest sympathy to the relatives of the deceased. T seek leave to continue my remarks on a subsequent occasion. 
Leave granted. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Murphy)  adjourned. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. As it is customary under industrial regulations for a holiday which falls on a Sunday to be transfered to the following day, will this procedure be adopted in the Australian Capital Territory this year when' Anzac Day is observed on Sunday 25th April? 
 Mr Deputy President,  may I seek your ruling on whether we should debate together this Bill, the Dried Fruits Levy Bill and the Dried Fruits Levy Collection Bill rather than deal wilh them individually? They are related Bills and T believe that it would be more appropriate to deal with them together. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  -  Senator Cotton  is in charge of these Bills. Is it his wish that they be dealt with together? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Is it the wish of the Senate that the 3 Bills be taken together? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
The purpose of the Dried Fruits Research Bill is to establish a joint Commonwealth and industry research scheme. I believe that this is a particularly good proposition and, consequently, we shall offer no opposition to the Bills in principle, although we have circulated amendments which we propose to move at the Committee stage. Funds will be made available for purposes of research from levies imposed on producers of dried fruit and from a matching grant from the Commonwealth on a $1 for $1 basis. The Dried Fruits Levy Bill authorises the payment of the levy and places a ceiling on the levy of $1 a ton on currants, sultanas and raisins, and $5 a ton on dried apricots. 
I address myself first to the levy. I think it will be agreed that growers should be obliged to pay the levy. We have no serious objection to that because the funds will be used for purposes of research. However, I suggest that it is unusual for a government to say that growers should be obliged to pay a levy for purposes of research, or for any other matter, and then criticise trade unions because they require their members to pay a levy or because they object strenuously when someone who takes up employment in an industry fails to join the appropriate trade union. The purpose in imposing the levy is to ensure that any producer who avails himself of the benefits of the research shall accept his responsibility to contribute finance towards the research programme. I repeat that this action of the Government in imposing a levy and insisting that growers pay it is entirely different from the attitude it adopts when trade unionists band themselves together and demand that all people working in an industry shall be members of a union. 
There is also a contrast in regard to the penalties that are to be imposed for failure to pay the levy or contravention of other sections of the legislation with which a grower, producer or packer may find himself in conflict. I refer particularly to clause 11 (1.) of the Dried Fruits Levy Collection Bill, which slates: 
A person shall not: 
fail or neglect duly to furnish a return or information that he is required under the regulations to furnish; or 
furnish, in pursuance of the regulations, a return or information that is false or misleading in a material particular. 
For that misdemeanour the penalty is $200. Let us visualise what can happen if people who are required to make these returns or give this information fail to do so. It will lead to some serious deficiencies within the research programme. Yet they are to be fined only $200. I make a comparison between that and what happens to trade unions which are in a position in  which they may fail to observe some provision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-1970. 
We see that there are no priorities, as far as the Government is concerned, as to how penalties should be inflicted. On the one hand, for what may be regarded as a serious misdemeanour which may tend to reduce the efficiency of the research programme a person can be fined $200. I contrast that with the penalties that this Government imposes on workers and trade unionists. For instance, section 111 (4.) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act says: 
The maximum penalty which the Court is empowered to impose in respect of a contempt of the Court consisting of a failure to comply with an order of the Court made under paragraph (b) of sub-section (1.) of section one hundred and nine of this Act is: 
where the contempt was committed by an organisation . . . One thousand dollars; 
where the contempt was committed by an employer, or the holder of an office in an organisation . . . Four hundred dollars or imprisonment for twelve months; or 
in any other case - One hundred dollars. 
That provision is similar in terms to what this Bill says. If, by a contemptuous action, a person does not conform with clause 11 (1.) of the Dried Fruits Levy Collection Bill, he can be fined §200. But that is not so in the case of a union, or an employer if it comes to that. A union can be fined $1,000, and an employer or the holder of an office in an organisation, such as a trade union secretary, can be fined $400 or imprisoned for 12 months. Is there any justice in a system that imposes penalties of that nature for failure to comply with the provisions of an Act? I contrast that situation with that of the grower, packer or other person who fails to comply with clause 11 (1.) of the Dried Fruits Levy Collection Bill now before the Senate. 
Let us look at some other sections or the Conciliation and Arbitration Act&gt; Section 152 provides: 
An organisation shall keep, in accordance with this section, the following records: 
It then sets out that the organisation must keep a register of its members showing the name and postal address of each member, and things of that nature. For failure to comply with this provision of the  Act  an organisation may be fined $20 for each week of default. Would that failure be any more heinous a crime than the one contemplated by clause 11 (1.) of the Dried Fruits Levy Collection Bill? I suggest that it would not. This shows the discriminatory nature of Acts of this Parliament when such acts are directed against workers and trade unions. 
Of course they are workers. I am not suggesting otherwise. What 1 am suggesting is that under clause 11 (I.) of this Bill a person who fails to comply with the requirement to furnish certain details can be fined up to $200 whereas in similar circumstances a secretary of a trade union can be gaoled for failure to do some things that are nowhere near as serious as what is contemplated by the provisions of this Bill. Let me examine some other sections of the Conciliation r.nd Arbitration Act. I turn to section 169 which provides: 
Notwithstanding anything contained in the rules of an organisation or of a branch of the organisation, an organisation and every officer of an organisation or branch of an organisation . . . shall take such steps as are necessary to ensure that all ballot papers . . . used in connection with ... an election for an office are preserved and kept ... For a period of one year after the completion of the election. 
If the secretary of a union fails to do that - incidentally, I suggest that it is a domestic matter within his own union - he can be fined $200 or imprisoned for 12 months, or both. Where is the justice? Under one piece of legislation of this Parliament a person can be fined $200 for failing to do something, and under another piece of legislation of this Parliament a person can be fined $200 or imprisoned for 12 months, or both, for something almost identical. If honourable senators on the Government side claim that that is justice F suggest that they should put the word 'justice' in inverted commas. Lel me turn now to section 1 70a (2.) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which is in these terms: 
A person shall not . . . obstruct or hinder a person ... in the performance of his functions in relation to an election or in the taking of any action under the last preceding subsection. 
That carries a penalty of $200 or imprisonment for 12 months, or both, in other parts of the Act there are numerous  instances of similar penalties. For example, if a person records more than one vote in a trade union ballot he can be fined $200 or imprisoned for 12 months or both. I ask honourable senators on the Government side to examine their consciences to see whether this is not discriminatory and directed towards persons in the trade union movement. I now address my remarks to section 177(1.) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. lt provides: 
Any organisation or person bound by an industrial agreement shall for any breach or nonobservance of any  term  of  the agreement be liable to a penally noi exceeding Mich amount as is fixed by the industrial agreement: and if no amount is so  fixed.  then to a penalty not exceeding in the '-asc of an organisation One thousand dollars, in the case of an employer Five hundred dollars, and in the case of an employee Twenty dollars. 
That section is worthless because it has been held over the years in all industrial tribunals thai you cannot contract yourself out of an award. I direct the attention of the Senate to the discriminatory nature of the legislation which the Government introduces and enforces. I have no objection to clause 1 1 of the Bill before us which provides that a person shall be required to perform certain functions and that if he fails to do so he is required to meet the penally. I believe that such provisions in a Bill of this nature are necessary, but 1  ask  honourable senators on the Government side to re-examine the minimum fine of $200 in the light of the fact that other sections of the community can be fined anything up to SI, 000 or be imprisoned, or both, for misdemeanours of a similar character. 
I have indicated that the Opposition has no desire to oppose the Bill. We believe that it will be in the interests of the people involved. Nevertheless I felt compelled to stale the Opposition's views when I learned that the penalty for failure to observe the provisions of the Bill was the minimum amount of $200 in view of the penalties which can be imposed on trade unions and workers tinder the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
Senates WEBSTER (Victoria) (12.22)- We have heard an amazing exhortation from  Senator Milliner.  The whole point of his comments, I lake it, is that he is dissatisfied with the penalty to be imposed under clause 1 1 of this Bill. Because of his knowledge - a significant knowledge, I may say - of the arbitration and certain other legislation he feels that a much harsher penalty should be imposed upon the individuals who fail to comply with the provisions of this Bill. That seems to be a little inconsistent with what is usually put forward by the Labor Party. Front a reading of the comments of other members of the Parliament and from listening to  Senator Milliner,  perhaps it is fair to say thai their ignorance of this industry has led them to the point where the only fault they can find wilh this Bill is that the treatment set out for persons who fail to observe the provisions of clause 1 1 is not sufficiently harsh. 
 I did nol say that. 
On behalf of the Opposition,I move the following amendment: 
Leave out sub-clause  (2.). 
We believe that this is an obnoxious subclause which strikes right at the fundamentals of justice. If my understanding of it is correct, it means that an officer may go on to a property and, on the basis of his own observations, make an averment or statement, and then that is unable to be challenged by anybody. If that is the case, surely it is entirely wrong for a provision of that nature to be in any Bill whatsoever. 
I recall that on one occasion I raised in this chamber an incident in which security officers, customs officers and State police officers journeyed about 200 miles outside of Brisbane to an egg producing farm. There was some difficulty. The egg producer had failed to pay a levy. The provisions of the Crimes Act, I believe it was on that occasion, were invoked. What could be the situation with a provision of this nature in the Bill? Any of those people, working as individuals or working collectively, could go on to a producer's property and make a statement or averment, and then that would not be open to challenge. In those circumstances the producer is in a most invidious position. I am surprised that members of the Country Party, in whose favour this legislation is directed, accept a provision such as this. 
Let me take it a step further. We must look at the possible consequences. If the person who goes on to the property to make the inspection bears a grudge against the producer, it is likely that his averment will be coloured in his favour and will not be in accordance with the facts. I ask the Minister to take these matters into consideration. I believe that if he does that he will see the serious repercussions that could arise as a result of this sub-clause. Accordingly, the Opposition opposes the inclusion of this sub-clause and I have moved an amendment to have it deleted from the Bill. 
Can the Minister go further? We agree entirely with the provisions of the Bill which require all who reap any benefit from the research to contribute to the cost of that research by way of levy, but the Minister did not answer my question. An officer may go on to a property and make an averment or a statement which cannot be challenged. Am I correct in that interpretation of the sub-clause? If I am, will the Minister indicate accordingly. The basis of our complaint is that the averment or statement can be used by the Government or by anyone in authority, and the person against whom the averment or statement is made has no reasonable chance of challenging it. 
On behalf of the Opposition I move: 
Leave out 'five years', insert 'twelve months'. 
It may be necessary for me to go back to the debate which took place when the Broadcasting and Television Bill was before the Senate some 2 months ago. On that occasion the Opposition proposed that the period of time prescribed in a particular provision should be extended rather than reduced. In case honourable senators on the Government side say that we are being inconsistent, let me explain that the circumstances under the Broadcasting and Television Bill were entirely different. On that occasion we put forward the example of someone being convicted while absent overseas and learning of the conviction when he returned. If he had evidence to prove that the conviction was wrongful he could then proceed to have that conviction discharged. The reason why we moved that amendment was to give that person an opportunity to clear his name if the evi dence justified such action. 
Clause 11 of the Bill presently before us reads: (2.) A prosecution for an offence against this section may be commenced at any time within 5 years after the commission of the offence. 
I hope I am not deliberately misinterpreting the Minister, but I understood him to say that a fruit grower would take his fruit to the packing shed and would be given a receipt for it but that there may be some suspicion that he had more fruit than he had declared and in such a case an inspector could examine his books. What would happen if the fruit grower had lost his books in the intervening period? There could have been a fire in his home; there could have been a robbery in his home; there could have been any set of circumstances which would justify an explanation that his records had been destroyed. He would be put in an impossible position in seeking to justify the claim that had been made originally. The Minister for Air shakes his head. I would dearly love to have a copy of the Hansard in which the Minister's remarks are recorded. As 1 said, I hope I am not deliberately misinterpreting what he said, but it is my firm belief that this is what he said in essence. 
Irrespective of that, the Bill provides that a person shall keep the records for 5 years. We are nol dealing with major organisations: we are dealing with fruit growers who are probably employed on their own behalf and who are not really accustomed to keeping all types of records. They are not managing big businesses, and yet the provisions of this Bill put them in a position where an inspector, if he believes an offence has been committed, can go in and examine the books within 5 years, and his averment will be accepted. I will not dwell on that aspect of the argument again. 1 repeat that it appears to the Opposition that a period of 5 years is far too long, particularly when the records in the possession of the grower have been destroyed. The 12-month period suggested in the amendment is probably too long but, nevertheless, in an effort lo reach some agreement on the matter we ask that the words '5 years' be deleted and that the words '12 months' be inserted in lieu thereof. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to Information Report No. 8 of the  Sir Winston  Churchill Memorial Trust which sets out the findings of  Mr B.  E. Reynolds, a Churchill Fellow, on his observations while travelling overseas of the latest trends in teaching deaf children and multiple handicapped children? Will the Minister examine the contents of the report to ascertain whether any of these overseas teaching methods can be incorporated in syllabuses in the respective areas in Australian schools? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister received from a group of interested people in Queensland's central west, comprising representatives of shire councils, employee, business and grazier organisations, a letter informing him of their application for this area of Queensland to be classified as a disaster area because of the ravages of drought? What attitudes does the Prime Minister adopt towards the pleas of these people who point out the seriousness of the deteriorating position of shire councils, business, farming and employee organisations in that area? Can he offer any hope for the future of towns in western Queensland following the pleas of these people? 
The information before me does not reveal that any special representations have been made from Queensland, but that is not to say that such representations have not been made. All 1 can say is that I will check that information as soon as question time is over. I do know that these matters are usually dealt with on a Premier to Prime Minister level. _ From my own experience of answering questions on such issues, I know that such representations made by Premiers are dealt with very expeditiously. I will get the information for the honourable senator and let him know. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services examine what appears to be an anomalous position when a widow who is in receipt of a war widow's pension and a part social services pension, and who receives a 50c increase in the former is then informed that the latter will be reduced by an equivalent amount? In these circumstances the recipient is therefore denied any financial benefit as a result of an upward review of social service payments. 
On Tuesday lastI addressed a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior requesting that the statutory holiday for 
Sunday, 25th April 1971, be transferred to Monday, 26th April 1971, for employees in the Australian Capital Territory. Has the Minister any information to convey concerning this proposal? 
The Opposition persists with its amendment which seeks to insert '12 months' in lieu of '5 years'. How the logic put forward by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  could escape anybody is beyond my comprehension. I never thought that we would see the day when we would be referring to the Crimes Act. But, as  Senator Murphy  has said, this is in general usage and penalties under the Crimes Act must be prosecuted within .12 months. Yet this Bill which, when compared with the Crimes Act, is comparatively innocuous, provides for a period of 5 years as against the prescription of 12 months in relation to the prosecution of serious charges under the Crimes Act. 
Stress tonight has been laid on the fact - this was done in passing by  Senator Young  - that there are few of these growers who would be prosecuted. The Minister laid great stress- 
 I thank the honourable senator. The addition of the word probably' makes it even worse from the point of view of the honourable senator. The Minister said that if the prescription were reduced to 12 months additional staff would be required.  Mr Temporary Chairman,  where are these dried fruits grown? Are they grown from the tip of Cape York to Darwin? J suggest that they would be found in the principal areas of South Australia and Victoria. If inspectors could not detect within 12 months whether any grower or packer had tried to defeat the provisions of this Bill, I cannot visualise for one "moment that a need would exist for an army of inspectors, to be recruited for the purpose of policing the provisions of this Bill. 
I wish to quote the words of the Minister during the Committee stages of the Dried Fruits Levy Collection Bill 1971 as reported in Hansard of 1st April at page 727. The Minister said:  1 wish lo take a few minutes to reply firstly to  Senator Milliner.  He referred to the grower who, because of fire or some similar happening, lost  Kia  receipts for his fruit. I think the simple answer to that problem is for the grower to ask the company or packing house for duplicates. 
It is quite a simple matter, in the mind of the Minister, for the grower to go to the packer and to obtain duplicates of any receipts that have been issued. Does it not follow as a consequence that it is equally simple for the inspector to go to the same packing house to obtain duplicate receipts? Consequently then, why is the prescription of 5 years as set out in the Bill required or the prescription of 3 years as set out in the compromise amendment needed to achieve this end? If it is a simple proposition for the grower to go to the packing sheds to obtain a duplicate receipt, equally is it a simple proposition surely for the inspector to follow such a course. 
The logic of the case becomes clear by comparing this provision with the provisions in the Crimes Act which is a most serious Act. I have criticised the Government within the past 12 months or so for invoking provisions of the Crimes Act in respect of certain growers in country areas. I have criticised that action, f am not suggesting that the Crimes Act should be invoked on this occasion; let me make that perfectly clear. If we turn to the general principles established and find for example that in the provisions contained in the Crimes Act a prescription of 12 months appears, should we not ask: Why should a comparatively minor Bill of this nature seek to extend that period to 5 years; equally, why should the compromise amendment propose 3 years. There can be no compromise. Surely it is right or wrong. If the Government felt that it was right in introducing a prescription of 5 years, surely it should have maintained its position. Now it has come up with a compromise. I repeat that the compromise is totally unacceptable to the Opposition. We persist with our amendment. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Public Service Board been directed to ensure that all Commonwealth Public Service Departments substantially reduced staff by 30th June 1971; if so, what percentage reduction in staff is contemplated? 
Therehas been no direction to the Public Service Board to ensure that all Commonwealth Public Service Departments substantially reduce staff by 30th June 1971; the Government accepted the Board's recommendation that departmental increases in employment should be kept to the minimum and, in any case, should not exceed, as at 30th June 1971, an overall increase in the Service of 3.4 per cent, as compared with numbers employed under the Public Service Act on 30th June 1970. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. Has the Minister yet determined whether Australian universities are to be reimbursed financially for the increased wages they  have been called upon to meet for nonacademic staff? Will the Minister expedite his reply ro the urgent representations made by the Australian Vice-Chancellors' Committee for relief in this direction? 
I enter this debate to say that I am disappointed that the Standing Orders Committee has not met to amend the Standing Orders in a way which would permit some emphasis to be given to this motion. Had the Standing Orders been amended to provide for the substantive motion to be what we now regard as the subject matter, we would have been able to amend the subject matter in a manner that would have given some teeth to the proposition. For instance, we could have amended it to say that unless the Government did something in the direction indicated in the motion we would reject the Budget in the August session. But an amendment such as that is impossible in present circumstances and so to some extent this matter of urgency becomes merely a matter for debate. 
I remind the Senate that this motion is hyporcitical because its sponsors have brought about the very conditions which they now deplore. I remind the Senate that it was the Democratic Labor Party which supported the Government in all its action during the last Budget session when it increased indirect taxation and effected other changes which immediately reduced the value to the recipients of social service benefits and child endowment payments. Now members of the Democratic Labor Party complain that the Government has not seen fit to increase child endowment or to do other things which are outlined in the motion. In my view this is sheer political humbug because they, aided and abetted by the Government, were the instruments by which child endowment payments have deteriorated to the point they have now reached. Statistics are not needed to buttress one's arguments in this regard. If we were to ask any mother what the position is with regard to child endowment payments today, without recourse to statistics she would reply that child endowment has eroded to such an extent that its effect is now almost negligible. 
Members of the Democratic Labor Party are the very ones who have prevented child endowment payments from being increased. On innumerable occasions the Australian Labor Party has put forward proposals to increase child endowment, but the DLP has supported the Liberal Party and the Country Party at election times and has thus denied to the Australian Labor Party an opportunity to give effect to what the DLP now says should be done. I suggest that it is sheer political humbug to come into this place crying that child endowment payments have been eroded when those senators, combined with Government supporters, have been the instrument by which child endowment payments have been eroded. There can be no argument about that. A cold analysis of the situation reveals starkly that child endowment payments have deteriorated to a degree that is a disgrace to the Government of Australia. In defence of the Government the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood)  and  Senator Buttfield  referred to what had been done for the people of Australia and particularly for the parents. Is it being suggested that the Government will never give consideration to the erosion in value of child endowment payments and has no intention of increasing child endowment in the future? From the remarks made by Senators Greenwood and Buttfield one is entitled to infer that that is the Government's intention, its reason being that it has increased some social service benefits in other directions. 
This attitude reminds me of the story of the employer who provided better amenities for his workers. The employees had been working in almost gutter conditions, but he lifted their conditions to footpath level. It was obvious that he had no intention of lifing them further from the footpath into a house. That is analogous to the situation we have today. The defence to this motion put forward by Government supporters makes that quite clear. The parents of Australian children should be made aware of the Government's lack of interest in this direction and should realise that if, unhappily, the Government is returned at the next general election, whether it is in 1971 or 1972, it will be the fate of child endowment payments to remain at their present stagnated level. It is not a very happy thought for the parents of children born in Australia to realise that they are expected to rear their children in the most difficult circumstances and that in future they will be given no relief or assistance by way of increased child endowment payments. 
The Government has neglected this area of social services. It has neglected the parents, the people of Australia who are trying to do so much to raise families in the difficult circumstances that obtain today. 1 repeat that it has been aided by the Democratic Labor Party senators now come before us with this matter of urgency, which in fact is an expression of opinion. They have had the opportunity in the past, and they will have the opportunity in the future, to prove whether they are fair dinkum about these matters by getting rid of the Government which unfortunately occupies the Treasury bench of this national Parliament. It is impossible to escape those conclusions if one looks at the situation as it should be looked at. On each occasion on which the Government has imposed increases in direct taxation the DLP has supported its action. 
Let me refer to this morning's issue of the Brisbane 'Courier-Mail'. The editorial reads in part: 
The latest consumer price index again shows Brisbane has recorded the highest cost of living increase among Australian capital cities. 
We know that the standard of government in Queensland today is very poor, but the Queensland Government cannot be held responsible for all the increases. The Federal Government must take the responsibility for a substantial measure of cost increases. Yet it comes before this Parliament and says: 'Look, we have done so much for the parents of children. We are not doing anything more for them. We are going to allow child endowment payments to remain as they are.' The Government says this notwithstanding the fact that the statistics are against it. The mothers of Australia say that child endowment payments have been eroded as a result of the maladministration of the Government which has been aided and abetted bv the Democratic Labor Party. 
I repeat that newspapers and church groups throughout Australia, and the people of Australia, say that child endowment payments have been eroded to a dangerous level. Everybody with the exception of the Government acknowledges that. I was astounded today to hear a responsible Minister of the Crown and a back bench supporter of the Government in the Senate defending the Government for its neglect of this area. These people say that the Government has been very generous to the people of Australia in other directions. When we of the Australian Labor Party are discussing a certain issue we deal with that issue only. It is an inescapable fact that child endowment payments have deteriorated. 
With respect, it is a pity that we do not have socialism in Australia today because then we would not have this situation. However, we are living in a capitalist society. Let us try to live in those circumstances but let the Government acknowledge that the parents of Australia are our best migrants. I make no apology whatever for saying that. We spend millions of dollars in trying to attract migrants from overseas. All that is necessary is to provide decent returns for parents in Australia in order to ensure that we have our own fair dinkum migrants, our own Australian children. But the way in which they have been neglected in the past hardly holds out any hope for the future in this direction. 
I repeat that I was disappointed to hear a responsible Minister of the Crown stand in this chamber today and try to defend this indefensible situation. He was supported by another Government senator. Perhaps some of us are getting a bit old and do not know what Ls the responsibility of the parents of today. The parents of children in Australia today are in a perilous position in rearing, educating and doing everying right by their children. For the Government to say that it has done a remarkable job will not satisfy the people of Australia. I hope that the Government will learn of this dissatisfaction at the next general election. 
The second part of the matter of urgency is in these terms: 
The failure of the Federal Government to introduce a system of capitalisation of child endowment payments similar to that scheme which has operated successfully in New Zealand since 1959. 
If honourable senators care to check the records they will find that this was part of the policy of the Australian Labor Party in 1963. We find now that the Democratic Labor Party says that the Government has failed to do these things, yet it had the opportunity in 1963 to support the Party which outlined this policy. We have no criticism of the proposal; we believe that it should be done. 
I suggest that the honourable senator must have been listening to the debates of the Australian Labor Party, because he would not have had the  intelligence to. introduce such a proposal. This has been part of our policy for many years, yet the  DLP  now finds that there is merit in the proposal. Apparently the Government believes it has no merit whatsoever Let us try to examine what could be done.  I  invite the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  to have a close look at what can be done to achieve what has been achieved in New Zealand. Honourable senators will find that the introduction of a similar system in Australia will be to the advantage of young marrieds. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT Senator Bull)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired: 
J rise because I believe a great injustice has been done to  Senator Keeffe  in this Senate. So that I will not be accused of leaving out any words I refer to page 900 of the daily Hansard. These words are ascribed to  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack: 
I rise not with the preparatory remark, which is common to the Senate, that at this late hour J will not detain the Senate very long. What 1 intend to say arises from the remarks made by the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  in the context of the discussion of the speech made by  Senator Keeffe  in which he quoted what were alleged to be the remarks of  President  Eisenhower before the Governors of the United Stales of America. This, one of the most famously distorted canards, has spread around the world. When the original quotation came out it had 3 or 4 mysterious little dots which indicated that something had been eliminated from the report. We have now reached the stage where the 3 or 4 little dots have been eliminated and the statement reads  v.  though  President  Eisenhower said what  Senator Keeffe  has ascribed to him. I advise the Senate, so that this canard can be nailed, that on the adjournment tomorrow night I shall read the correct record of what was said for the benefit of  Senator Keeffe. 
I think it could be truly said that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack was saying, in effect, that  Senator Keeffe  was endeavouring to convey the impression to the Senate that General Eisenhower had said something which was not correct. Tonight  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack in support of his contention produced a document. I want to read to honourable senators what  Senator Keeffe  read last night. Then I shall read from the document to which  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack referred tonight. This is what  Senator Keeffe  said last night: 
Now let us assume that we lose Indo-China. lt Indo-China goes, several things happen right away. The peninsula, the last bit of land hanging on down there, would be scarcely defensible. The tin and' tungsten that we so greatly value from that area would cease coming. 1 now ask honourable senators to listen to what the document which  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack produced tonight says. I hope honourable senators will read this in tomorrow's copy of the daily Hansard to see that it is precisely what  Senator Keeffe  said last night. 1 repeat: 
Now Let us assume that we lose Indo-China. 11 Indo-China goes, several things happen right away. The peninsula, the last little bit of land hanging on down there, would be scarcely defensible. The tin and tungsten that we so greatly value from that area would cease coming. 

 Senator Keeffe then referred to an ellipsis or the 4 dots as they are commonly referred to tonight. He read on: 
So, when the United States votes $400m to help that war. we are not voting a give away programme. We are voting for the cheapest way that we can prevent the occurrence of something that would be of most terrible significance to the United States of America, our security, our power and ability to get certain things we need from the riches of Indo-China and from South East Asia 
I ask honourable senators to dwell on the words 'Indo-China' because that is the only difference between what  Senator Keeffe  said last night and the document produced by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack tonight. That document states: 
So when the United States votes (400m to help that war, we are not voting a give away programme. We are voting for the cheapest way hat we can prevent the occurrence of something that would be of a most terrible significance to the United States of America, our security, our power and ability to get certain things we need from th« riches of the Indonesian territory and from Sou  Iti  East Asia. 
My learned friend from Western Australia says that I said Indo-China. 
I explained tha? position before I read the document. If I did not make myself perfectly clear to all honourable senators let me repeat that last night  Senator Keeffe  in reading from his document said 'Indo-China' and tonight  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack from his document said 'Indonesian'. That is the only difference between what  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack said tonight and what  Senator Keeffe  said last night. If ever an apology were due in this Senate I submit with respect that it is due to  Senator Keeffe  from  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. He is not here at this stage of the proceedings so I cannot ask him to apologise. Nor can the Senate request him to do so. But if be is a fairminded Australian and if he is reasonable in his attitude towards the responsibility of this Senate then I say again, with respect, that he should give to  Senator Keeffe  the apology which is his due. Last night the clear inference was that  Senator Keeffe  was, to say the least, gilding the lily. I submit that what  Senator Keeffe  said last night is 99.9 per cent in line with what  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack said tonight. I repeat that I believe an apology is due to  Senator Keeffe. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Will Anzac Day, which falls this year on Sunday, 25th April, be observed in the Australian Capital Territory by granting a public holiday on Monday, 26th April. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. As an aid to safety in motoring and a protection for the prospective owners of motor vehicles, will the Minister investigate the advisability of requiring all motor vehicle manufacturers to rust proof vehicles prior to their sale? 
 I have precisely 4 minutes in which to address myself to this very important question. Obviously that is an impossibility. However, I do take up the point which was raised by  Senator Byrne,  who is the spokesman of the Australian Democratic Labor Party on this matter, about his Party being concerned as to the welfare of the youth of this nation - in this instance, the youth of the Australian Capital Territory. He did not answer the case which has been put that this proposal will result in the very reverse of what he hopes to achieve, namely, it will make it almost impossible for young married people to obtain land because of the changed circumstances. The amended system of land tenure in the Australian Capital Territory will mean that if 2 people who desire a block of land go to a ballot to obtain it the person with the highest bankroll will get it. It is an inescapable fact that the sons of the workers will be in an impossible position in regard to the obtaining of land compared to the richer people of the Australian Capital Territory. 
It has been said that this matter has been investigated on previous occasions by committees of inquiry. This is true. However, the circumstances have changed since then. Let me refer to the opinion which has been expressed by a prominent firm of solicitors in the A.C.T. on this subject. This firm has said:  . . lessees under existing leases have been lead to believe as a result of statements made and literature published by the Government that their financial commitments as lessees as a result of the recent changes in the legislation will remain substantially as before. 
This legal opinion is to the effect that this is not correct. The legal opinion also states: 
It is realised that it is only a comparatively short time since the Senate held such an inquiry, but it is pointed out that the Senate inquiry did not investigate the many aspects of the land tenure system now needing examination as a result of the Government's proposal to abandon the collection of ground rent and as a result of the decision of the High Court in the Esmonds Motors case. 
I repeat that my time has almost expired. I have no desire to delay the Senate's consideration of the matter. I believe that the whole matter should be referred to the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory for inquiry. I believe that it will do an impartial job. It has not played politics in the past and it will not do so on this occasion. I believe that it will bring down recommendations which will be to the advantage of all concerned. With the concurrence of honourable senators,I incorporate in Hansard a legal opinion on the case for moving the disallowance of the Land Rent (Validation and Reappraisement) Ordinance 1970, City Area Leases Ordinances 1970 and the Rates Ordinance 1970. 
The recent changes made to laws relating to lands in the Australian Capital Territory have been made hastily and without proper consideration being given to the many problems which have arisen as a result of the impact of the stresses caused by the growth of the City of Canberra and of the development of the Australian Capital Territory, and also as a result of the impact of the economic development of the Commonwealth of Australia. 
The various legislative measures made to date to deal with the problems are bound to failure because the amendments made to any one Ordinance are based on short-sighted, stop-gap methods made without any real attempt to study and evaluate the consequential side effects of such amendments upon another Ordinance or upon the rights of parties under leases and agreements made prior to the amendments of the legislation. Indeed, most recent amendments deny the rights of persons arising under contracts made by the Commonwealth in the form of leases with unexpired terms of many years. 
The result of such amendments must inevitably be injustice, confusion, lack of confidence and ultimately chaos. 
It is absolutely essential to the attainment of a just land tenure system that all the legislation setting up and regulating the system be made in a cohesive and comprehensive manner. 
The existing legislation lacks cohesion and will not only not solve the problems it is designed to solve, but will create far greater problems than those already existing. 
Many of such problems have already become apparent. Some of them have already been drawn to the attention of the officers of the Department responsible for the drafting of the amending legislation and the administration of the leasehold system. Examples of such problems can be given. 
It is believed that amendments to the legislation necessitated by some of the more obvious defects in the legislation are already being prepared. 
Examples: 
Sublease - rates 
Variation - registration of orders 
Stamp Duty - building agreements 
A study of the history of the land tenure system by the members of the Parliament is absolutely essential in order to be able to understand the legislation now being dealt with by them. The theories and policies upon which the original legislation setting up the leasing system understood by the members of Parliament in the 1920s have been overlooked or forgotten by the present members who are now called upon to deal with the legislation. It is suggested that even the Ministers who have been responsible for the administration of the system for at least the last 20 years have had a merely superficial knowledge of the system. 
It is alarming to hear statements made by members of Parliament from time to time which indicate not only their lack of any real understanding of the leasehold system, but also their lack of any real understanding of the existence of and the causes for the problems which now exist, and of the problems which are likely to arise in the future. 
How can such men be expected to give any intelligent consideration to such legislation unless they take the trouble to make a thorough study of the system and its problems? 
Perhaps the greatest problem confronting any one trying to gain the assistance of members of Parliament in support of an attempt to improve the leasehold system in the Territory is the problem of gaining their interest. Most members represent the interests of people in other parts of Australia who have little concern with the problems of the residents of the Territory and who traditionally have regarded Territorians as a pampered lot who are far better off in most respects than themselves. There is no political advantage to be gained in becoming concerned in the affairs of the Territory unless it be to complain about the burden imposed on their own constituents by the expenditure of public moneys for the benefit of the Territory. Fortunately, there have always been some men who have looked beyond the bounds of their own electorate and concerned themselves with the interests of the nation. Such men will readily be interested in the problem. Even others not so readily interested and more concerned with the interests of their own electorates will surely become interested if they realise that the whole of the people of Australia have a big investment in the lands of the Australian Capital Territory, and that this investment is now endangered by hasty and short-sighted legislation. 
It is the duty of every member of Parliament to protect the investment of the people of Australia in the lands in the Australian Capital Territory. 
In the light of the current concern about inflation, it is the duty of all members to consider the inflationary effect of the constantly and rapidly increasing rent content in the costs of carrying on business, or even in living, in the Australian Capital Territory. Most members of Parliament are probably unaware of, but should be informed of, the fact that despite the comments made by  His  Honour  Sir Garfield  Barwick, Chief Justice of The High Court of Australia, in the case, Esmonds Motors Pty Limited v the Commonwealth of Australia &amp; Another, in the recent legislation no provision has been made to set up the independent valuing authority considered by  His  Honour to be desirable. 
Most members of Parliament are unaware of, and should be informed of, the fact that prior to the introduction of the recent legislation there was no consultation with the organisations which exist (in the absence of any local government body) to represent the interests of the people of Canberra, such as the Advisory Council, the Chamber of Commerce, and the Law Society of the Australian Capital Territory. 
Most members of Parliament are unaware of, and should be informed of, the doubts and lack of confidence in the security of land tenure brought about by these amendments which may result in a return to the situation (which in fact occurred in the 1920s) when Crown Leases were not acceptable to lending institutions as security for loans because of the uncertainty of the financial commitment of lessees. 
Most members of Parliament are unaware of, and should be informed of, the fact that although provision is made in the legislation for appeals against valuations made by the Departmental Valuation upon which the current general rates are based, there is no protection whatsoever against an increase in the rate which may be imposed by the Minister at any time, thus increasing the amount payable by lessees in a manner which permits them no opportunity of planning or budgeting for the financial burden thus liable to be imposed. 
Most members of Parliament are unaware of, and should be informed of, the fact that most of the people of Canberra, and indeed of those people from other parts of Australia who purchase leases in the Territory, are blissfully ignorant of the heavy financial commitments which are likely to be imposed upon them in the near future, and that the lessees under existing leases have been led to believe as a result of statements made and literature published by the Government that their financial committments as lessees as a result of the recent changes in the legislation will remain substantially the same as before. Members of Parliament should be informed that this is completely untrue and that as a result of the changes many residential lessees will in effect be subsidising commercial leases. 
Many members of Parliament will not be aware of, and should be informed of, the unsatisfactory nature of the system of appeals provided for by the legislation which, although it does now provide for an appeal to the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory, has many unsatisfactory features. 
Many members of Parliament will not be aware of, and should be informed of, the ludicrous way in which valuations have been carried out during 1970 for the purpose of the new legislation. 
Many members of Parliament will not be aware of, and should be informed that most lessees, although they recognise that they must pay a reasonable contribution for the use of the Commonwealth land, are not being justly dealt with and will continue to be dissatisfied until proper safeguards for their protection are made. 
Many members of Parliament would be aware of the Government's proposal to abandon the collection of Ground Rent, but many members would not have had the opportunity of considering the effects of the adoption of such a policy. 
Until comparatively recent times, the system has worked reasonably well, partly because of the valuable work of the officers of the Department of the Interior responsible for its administration, but mainly because of the absence of the stresses upon the system brought about by the tremendous growth of the City of Canberra and by the tremendous growth of Australia since the end of World War 11, which commenced to manifest themselves in the early 1950s, and which have been more recently highlighted by frighteningly large ' valuations made in more recent reappraisement valuations of both commercial and residential lands in the Territory. 
Until about 20 years ago, Canberra was a small town, and the administration of the leasing system was comparatively simple and was carried out by public servants of the highest integrity who shielded the various Ministers for the Interior from the problems which were starting to arise, 
Until the influx of large business institutions which started in the late fifties and has accelerated ever since, there was no large demand for land, and hence no major problems in the system. lt is only since the rapid growth which occurred in the City since the late fifties that the large problems have developed. It is reasonable to assume that unless some far-sighted and farreaching legislation is introduced the problems will continue to grow in proportion to the size of the City. 
It is suggested that if Parliament permits the present short-sighted, badly prepared, and unsatisfactory legislation comprised in the amendments to the City Area Leases Ordinance (No. 45 of 1970), the Land Rent (Validation and Reappraisement) Ordinance 1970 (No. 44 of 1970) and the Rates Ordinance of 1970 (No. 47 of 1970) to continue in force, great harm will be done to the leasehold system, injustice will be done to the people of Canberra and to the people of Australia, and proper and worthwhile legislation so necessary to establish a reasonable land tenure system will be delayed. 
It is suggested that no legislation be introduced until a thorough and searching enquiry is made of the whole system of land tenure in the Australian Capital Territory. It is realised that it is only a comparatively short time since the Senate held such an enquiry, but it is pointed out that the Senate Enquiry did not investigate the many aspects of the land tenure system now needing examination as a result of the Government's proposal to abandon the collection of Ground Rent and as a result of the decision of the High Court in the Esmonds Motors case. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science aware that for some time in 1970 the University of Queensland, on a head count, was the largest university in Australia? Despite that fact, for a long time it has been the university with the lowest financial provision per student in Australia. Could the Minister explain the reason for this anomalous position? 
asked the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Did an American overseer of a properly in the Northern Territory, in a television programme entitled 'Whicker's Walkabout' which appeared on Australian Broadcasting Commission Television recently state that he would shoot any aborigine, without fear of punishment, who was found on a United States acquired property in the Northern Territory; if so, will the PostmasterGeneral insist on a withdrawal of the offensive remarks and ensure that no similar attitudes are expressed in the future in television programmes. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Did the Minister recently meet representatives of the committee known as the Central Western Queensland Survival Group? Was the Minister impressed with the seriousness of the submissions presented by such representatives? What action does the Minister propose to take to implement any of the proposals of the representatives of the aforementioned group to overcome urgently their immediate problems? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What is the average administrative cost in Australia and overseas for each immigrant to be brought to Australia in the year 1970-71. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Health. Has the Department of Health recently conducted a survey to determine how many doctors are charging the most common fee for medical services? Does the survey show that 20 per cent of doctors are charging above the common fee for services? Will the Minister release the results of this survey to the public? What action does, the Minister propose to persuade those doctors charging more than the common fee that they should lower their fees to the approved scale? 
asked the Minister  representing the Vice-President of the Executive Council, upon notice: 
Will the Minister arrange for representatives of the Australian Council for the Arts and officers of the Department of Education and Science, to discuss with officers of the Queensland Branch of the Council the distribution of financial grants in Queensland? 
The Australian Council for the Arts does not have a branch in Queensland. However, I have been assured by the Council that its officers work in the closest collaboration with the Queensland authorities in considering recommendations for grants to organisations in that State. The Department of Education and Science is not concerned in (he provision of grants for the performing arts. 
Has the attention  of the Minister for Health been drawn to an announcement of a strong probability of a breakthrough in the treatment of Parkinson's disease by doctors and authorities at the Royal Brisbane Hospital? If the Minister is aware of the details of this important matter,will he make a statement to the Senate? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the seriousness of the difficulties confronting industry and the residents of central western Queensland? Is he aware that the Premier of Queensland has acknowledged the parlous position of these people and has said publicly that this area is a disaster area? The Premier claimed that the State Government had not the financial resources to be able to assist and that it would appeal to the Commonwealth Government. Has the Premier of Queensland made such an appeal and, if so, with what result? 
I do not know whether the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  will be disappointed but I indicate now the Opposition offers no bar to the passage of the 
Bill and, therefore, we will not take the adjournment of the debate. I say that I do not know whether he will be disappointed because he read for so long that it appeared he was trying to convince us that this was the right method to adopt. 
 Now,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, I am trying to be co-operative with the Government. 
Please do not tempt me to be otherwise. I believe that the second reading speech of  Senator Wright  in effect pays tribute to those within the industry. There has been a tremendous transformation in this industry. It has passed from what may be regarded as a casual basis industry to one of permanency. Not so long ago the members of the Waterside Workers Federation were regarded always as the bad boys of industry. I personally have never subscribed to that view knowing of the work they have had to do, but I wonder now on reflection whether people were justified in saying the unkind things they said about the members of the Waterside Workers Federation in view of the fewer industrial disturbances that have taken place since the industry was organised on a permanent basis. I question whether on reflection people may not feel a little guilty in their conscience about so many barbs having been thrust at the waterside workers in the past. I repeat that I believe it is a fine tribute to those within the industry that they have been able to accommodate to the extent that they have such a transformation within the industry in working conditions, wages and industrial regulations. The partners to this legislation have accepted the proposition. I believe it would be wrong, therefore, for us to do anything but accept it because it was done in the complete spirit of conciliation. 
There are one or two observations I wish to make about the Minister's second reading speech. Quite rightly, he pointed out that the work force in the Waterside Workers Federation has been decreasing. The work force has decreased, over a 4- year period, from 20,140 in 1967 to 17,000 at the end of February 1971. Membership of the Federation has been reduced by about 3,000. That is a substantial reduction in any work force and it would indicate to everybody the influence of mechanisation or changed circumstances within an industry. These things substantially reduce a work force and we should bear this in mind when industries are affected by changed circumstances. 
That is right. I hope that the Minister will enlarge on his statement in the second paragraph on folio 6 of his second reading speech. He said: 
Accordingly the incidence of paid but  unworked  shifts has become the major item of expenditure from the charge revenue and as such is under close scrutiny by the Government. 
I am, perhaps, a suspicious character by nature when it comes to industrial matters. I hope that the Government does not have it in mind to do anything that will affect the wage envelopes of those within this industry. Perhaps the Minister can give an explanation of those words. 
I think the Minister's second reading speech indicates another very important thing in industry. I refer to the fact that the Waterside Workers Federation has been able to negotiate successfully, or by means of arbitration, and to hold its position in line with the Metal Trades Federation. We must consider that waterside workers usually are regarded as semiskilled, certainly when compared with metal trades workers. I believe it speaks volumes for the work of the officials of the Waterside Workers Federation that they have been able to adjust the wages of members of their union in line with those of a skilled industry. If this has been done substantially by conciliation it again reflects credit on the industry for having been able to get together around the table and adjust wages in a manner that can be regarded as satisfactory to all concerned. 
I want to finish this speech by paying tribute to those within the industry for having been able to adjust so readily to the changed circumstances. I pay tribute to them for having adopted progressively and consistently the spirit of conciliation. I believe it is a tribute to all concerned that they have progressed so smoothly in this transformation period and that they have been able to work harmoniously. I hope that in future their working conditions will be safer. Some 3 weeks ago - I speak from memory - I asked the Minister a question about safety measures in the waterfront industry. I am not criticising the Minister for not replying as yet to my question. The fact that I asked it would indicate to him and to others, if any indication were necessary, that I have an admiration for people who work within the Waterside Workers Federation and that I am keenly interested in the safety measures employed within the industry. At times I believe safety conditions are not up to the standard that should be observed in an industry of this nature or, in fact, in any industry. I conclude by stating that the Opposition offers no objection to this Bill. 
The Opposition indicates that it does not oppose the passage of this Bill, notwithstanding the fact that we will be moving amendments at the Committee stage. I have indicated to the Minister for. Air  (Senator, Drake-Brockman),  who is in charge of the measure, that that is our. intention. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
1  direct my question to the leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the Minister's acknowledgment that local authorities throughout. Australia are experiencing severe financial difficulties and the obvious fact that the recognised channel of making representations to the Federal Government through State governments has not been eminently successful, will the Minister seek the approval of the Prime Minister to the proposal that be invite representatives of local government in the respective States to meet the Prime Minister and the Treasurer so that they may be informed at first hand of the financial problems of local government authorities? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI shall take the question on notice.  I  feel bound to point out that local government authorities operate by State Acts of Parliament. 
There is a Commonwealth role in education. lt is not analogous at all. The Commonwealth acts directly in that sense. Every local government authority in the Commonwealth administers its law by an Act of Parliament in that particular State. The States are their masters.  I  do not think the States would appreciate some attempt to bypass them. If one bypassed the State authorities one would get a situation where they, in fact, would lose their legal and legislative control of local government authorities.  I  have said what  I  think is the proper approach 3 or 4 times already but it has to be repeated. The proper approach in relation to their problem is to make representations through their Premiers and State Parliaments to the Commonwealth. 
I direct my question to the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities. On his recent return from overseas as a Churchill Fellow, the Curator of the Brisbane Botanical Gardens reported at a meeting in Brisbane that in his opinion the potential of Cooloola, properly developed as a tourist centre, could be superior to that of the famous Everglades in Florida. Will the Minister canvass this avenue of tourist promotion when next a conference of State Tourist Ministers is convened? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Health. I ask: Stripped of all verbiage and lengthy explanation, does the agreed increase in general practitioners' fees in fact mean that contributions to the medical benefits scheme will increase by amounts varying between 5c and 10c a week in New South Wales, Victoria and Western Australia, and between 6c and 1 lc a week in Queensland. 
The Opposition indicates that it will offer no opposition to the passage of this legislation but that in the Committee stage of one of the cognate Bills, the Pig Slaughter Levy Collection Bill, it will move amendments to the clauses which deal with the averment and the period of time in which court action may be taken. I believe it is unfortunate that there is no unanimity of thought within the industry on the levy for the research purposes set out in the Bill. It appears that at least 2 organisations - namely, the Australian Primary Producers Union Pig Committee in Queensland and the Victorian Farmers Union Pig Committee - are opposed to the payment of this levy. Perhaps it would . be of advantage to all concerned if the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  could explain what steps have been taken to endeavour to obtain unanimity of thought among all sections of the industry. In respect of legislation which is for the progress of the industry it is a pity that we could not have all within the industry agreeing to the propositions contained in the Bill. I repeat that it might be of interest to the Senate - and I know that it would be to me - if the Minister could explain what steps have been taken to influence these organisations to accept the legislation. The Minister could state whether they have seen the light, as it were, and agreed to co-operate. 
The Opposition was considering asking that a referendum on this matter be held, seeing that a levy was to be imposed, but we felt that, as a majority of the people within the industry had accepted the proposition that a levy should be imposed, the legislation should be passed. On the other hand, if the majority had decided against the imposition of the levy, we most certainly would have asked for a referendum to be held. Another point has exercised my mind in this direction. Perhaps the Minister would indicate where in the Bill are the measures necessary to require the levy to be paid. I cannot find a similar provision to that which is contained in identical legislation. If some people who are now in the frame of mind to oppose the levy continue to adopt that attitude, I believe that it will be necessary to have some provision to enforce the payment of the levy. 
 I know there are 3 associated Bills. I can find no provision requiring the payment of the levy and no provision stating what will happen if the pig farmer fails to pay the levy. Perhaps the Minister would advise the Senate about that matter. There is a fine of $200 provided if the people responsible for furnishing returns to the Government for the purpose of determining that the levy has been paid are convicted of failing to return those forms. I ask the Minister whether the offence is a continuing offence. Again the Minister might explain that, because it appears to me that once a person in that category fails to furnish a return, if he is charged, convicted and fined there does not appear to be an continuing offence. Does the Government have to go through the same process every time the person fails to respond to the requirements of the Bill? 
That is it. There is a provision for the offence, but the offence having been discharged and the person having been fined for noncompliance 
The offence is failure to furnish the required information. I would appreciate it if the Minister would indicate to us how we are to overcome the problem if a continuing offence is involved. Certain opinions expressed on the dried fruits industry levy legislation correspond with what could well be said in respect of this legislation. I do not propose to express those opinions on this occasion. They were canvassed, the Senate divided on them and the views of the Opposition were in the minority. So I believe that it would be futile for us to present those views again. 
Nevertheless, we say that it is unfortunate, if such be the case, that the Government has failed to convince all sections of this industry that it is to their advantage to co-operate. The Oppposition believes that the imposition of a levy for research purposes is a legitimate project because the research programme will return advantages to the person Who pays the levy. It is estimated that this levy will produce about $155,000. With the matching grant from the Commonwealth Government, it should go a long way towards establishing and continuing the research that is so necessary in this industry. This afternoon we have heard a member of the Government parties refer to the difficulties being experienced by those in the primary producing section of industry. Those difficulties are perfectly obvious. I believe that all concerned will agree that a programme of this nature - one designed to improve by research the product of a primary industry - is to the advantage of the industry concerned and subsequently of Australia. In those circumstances, the Opposition will not oppose the legislation; but at the appropriate time in Committee we will move 2 amendments, as I have indicated. 
I move: 
Leave out sub-clause (2.). 
The Opposition's objections to a provision of this nature were stated when the Dried Fruits Levy Collection Bill was before the Senate. At that time the Minister and some supporters of the Government said that we were not interpreting this sub-clause correctly. Those honourable senators went on to say that there was no such thing as a penalty payable by anybody against whom an averment or statement was made. I look the opportunity to discuss with some legal friends of mine in Brisbane the statements made by the Minister and by an honourable senator on the Government side who is a member of the legal profession. My friends disagreed with what the Minister and what  Senator Withers,  who is a representative of the Bar, said. 
We all know that there are numerous instances where members of the legal fraternity disagree in their points of view. I suppose our courts would not be so busy unless there was this disagreement. In this chamber today  Senator Murphy  raised an issue but  Senator Byrne  questioned whether it was the appropriate time with which to deal with the matter.  Senator Byrne  felt that it should be raised on some other occasion.  Senator Murphy,  in his wisdom, said no, it should be dealt with on that occasion. We had the spectacle the other day when the Privileges Committee had to decide upon 2 different legal opinions on an issue which I think to the ordinary layman was clearly a simple one; but those 2 legal gentlemen held completely opposite points of view. 
I do not think we can take a great deal of notice of expressions of legal opinion by honourable senators on the Government side. In the debate on the Dried Fruits Levy Collection Bill our interpretation of an identical sub-clause was that a representative of the Minister may go on to any property and thereafter make an averment or statement which cannot be challenged. That is our interpretation of this sub-clause and we are sticking to that interpretation. To our way of thinking it is a completely obnoxious provision and should not be in the legislation. In view of our previously stated opinion in regard to an identical sub-clause in an earlier Bill, and having restated our opinion, the Opposition seeks the deletion of sub-clause (2.). 
I rise again for 2 reasons. Firstly,  Senator Byrne's  statement is to the effect that the industry asked for. this provision so that no-one would escape his responsibilities within the industry. 
-- Well, probably asked. That phrase suits just as well. The industry probably asked for this provision. 
-Well, for this type of legislation. To which provision is the honourable senator referring? Surely he must be referring to the amendment before the Senate. That is the way we interpreted his remarks. We are entitled to interpret his remarks in that direction. 
I hope I listened to the honourable senator intelligently. I suggest that he might pay me the same courtesy. If that is the attitude, then it could be said that any industry could ask for a certain provision in legislation, and notwithstanding the fact that such provision may be contrary to the good laws of the land it has to go into the Bill. This is a preposterous situation which could not be countenanced under any circumstances. I refer to the Minister's reply to me. If ever there was a reason for reinforcing this amendment it lies in what the Minister said. He said that the provision would be used most infrequently. Subsequently he said that we could not delete sub-clause (2.) because if we did we would need to have an army of inspectors and that would add cost to the research programme. Surely we have to balance against those reasons the fact that somebody approved by the Minister can make an inspection somewhere along the line and put in an averment or statement which cannot be contradicted by the person about whom the averment or statement is made. 
That is what the Minister said and that is what the Bill provides. I will read the relevant clause to the honourable senator. Clause 8 (2.) states: 
In proceedings for the recovery of an amount referred to in thelast preceding sub-section, an averment or statementin the complaint, claim or declaration of the plaintiff is evidence of the matter so averred or stated. 
 Senator Byrne  is using his legal knowledge. I have no legal knowledge but I am saying that the Minister has said that on a previous occasion in regard to similar provisions. 
It has been said by way of interjection that this is what unions do. They can inspect the wages books. 
If the honourable senator will be patient for one moment I might be able to explain that situation to him. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Will the Government immediately take the people of Australia into its confidence by announcing when all 
Australian troops are to be removed from Vietnam? 
I address my question to the Minister for Works. Some 3 weeks ago I addressed questions to the Minister in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service and as Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, concerning, firstly, safety provisions for ships entering Australia from overseas ports and the report of an accident that occurred at Newstead wharf on the previous day and, secondly, concerning the reimbursement of salary and wage increases for non-academic staff at the University of Queensland. Can the Minister give me an indication as to whether those answers are now available? 
I support the amendment moved by  Senator Poyser.  Before outlining my reasons in that direction I express disappointment that the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement has not been reconsidered as a whole. The Government has been lax in this direction. I recall that 12 months ago members of the Australian Labor Party asked questions of the then Minister for Housing on when negotiations were to take place for the renewal of the Agreement. There can be no excuse that the Government was not aware of the fact that a renewal was necessary and that the terms of the existing Agreement should be reconsidered. Therefore, I believe that the Government has been lax in this direction. We now have before us a document which will continue the existing situation with some financial improvements. Obviously we welcome the financial improvements but I do not know that they go far enough. With all the sophistication of our present day legislation and matters of that nature I do not know whether we have improved in the field of housing. 
I go back some years - perhaps 1 might be criticised for speaking of the past - to a Queensland scheme for workers dwellings. It has been superceded by another scheme. In those days young couples were encouraged to save to build a home. They went out of their way to buy a piece of land at a reasonable price and that was accepted as a deposit on the home. If the land was valued at $2,000 and their home was to cost $5,000, the $2,000 would be regarded as a deposit. I do not know whether that scheme is not better than the one we have today. It is almost impossible for young people to gather sufficient money to build a home under the present scheme, or under any other scheme if it comes to that. Tremendous difficulties are imposed on them, and there are side issues as well. In Queensland if one goes to the State Housing Commission one is asked to pay 7* per cent interest. Surely this is out of all proportion to what young people should be asked to pay in interest to provide themselves with a home? 
That is right, it is on the gilt edged security of a home. They are asked to pay 7* per cent interest to start with and they are allowed to borrow from the Commission only $8,000. At the present time I am reliably informed by master builders, homes in Queensland cost $1,300 a square. In those circumstances if a prospective home owner builds a home of reasonable proportions - say of 10 squares - then he has to pay $13,000. He has received $8,000 from the Commission at  li  per cent interest, but where does he obtain the additional $5,000? He has to take out a second mortgage at 8 per cent or 9 per cent interest. These are the facts of life. It is useless our talking about young people being encouraged to build their own homes. Under these circumstances they are discouraged. If they are fortunate enough to be able to obtain a loan through a bank, on the first $8,000 or $9,000-1 am not sure which - they have to pay 6* per cent interest. Surely that is high enough, but it is almost 1 per cent less than they would get from the Department of Housing. So there is that difference to start with. Notwithstanding the fact that young people can get this money from the Commonwealth Government, unless their parents are able to assist them to make up the difference between what they can get from the bank and the actual cost of the home, they still have to take out a second mortgage. This is crippling for young people and it is most discouraging. 
I wonder whether we realise the side effects of this situation. Today young people find it almost a sheer impossibility to meet their financial commitments with a single wage coming into the home. That is why the vast majority of young married women go to work - not because they want to go to work. It is true that some of them want to work, particularly if they have a profession. I am not decrying any married woman who wants to go to work. I make that perfectly clear. But in the vast majority of cases the young married woman must go to work to try to meet financial commitments. Married couples have to pay their ordinary interest and then have to meet their second mortgage interest. That in itself is a problem. But then they have to furnish their homes. As a rule they buy their furniture on hire purchase. I think that this is becoming a real social problem in Australia. I wonder whether the effect of it is that our cost of living is being gauged by the dual wage coming into the home. 
These are important social issues and perhaps they should not be raised in the debate on a housing Bill. Nevertheless, they are the facts of life. It does not matter what any departmental officer says: it does not matter what the Minister says; it does not matter what anybody says; the facts of life are that young married couples are finding it increasingly difficult to get financial assistance to build their homes. In Australia we have a proud record of home ownership, and that should continue. It is the basis of family life. Those of us who have had the experience of being able to buy a home of a reasonable standard appreciate the fact that the younger people today should be in that self same position. But quite frankly they are not. I believe it is unfortunate that that is the situation. 
I now refer to the young fellows who come out of the Army after 2 years service. On a conservative estimate, a tradesman would have forfeited $2,000 to $3,000 in the 2-year period he spent in the Army. He did not join the Army of his own choice but was required to do so. When he comes out of the Army he has to try to make up the amount which, had he been in regular employment, he may have been able to save towards his home. No consideration is given to him. The Opposition has tried unsuccessfully - the Government and the Australian Democratic Labor Party voted against it - to see that these young people are given war service home entitlements. The Government, for its reasons, and the Democratic Labor Party, because it wanted to stick with the Gov ernment, voted against that proposition.  I  believe that it was a sound proposition and it should have been accepted by the Government. It would have made more money available through the War Service Homes Division to this section of the community for their homes. 
Criticism has been made of the Opposition's amendment in relation to the words appropriate instrumentality'. If the Commonwealth Government is not going to give the lead in this direction, who is going to do it? Are honourable senators and the people of Australia satisfied with the lead that is being given by the respective State governments today? With respect, I would say that we should not be satisfied. The States claim that they have not the financial resources to tackle these problems. I have discussed quite openly with members of the Government in Queensland the question of new cities in Queensland. They agree that something of this nature should be planned but they have no money to put into these areas. They want to do something of this nature. If my friends in the Australian Country Party say that that, is wrong they are arguing against their own proposition of decentralisation. 
Great play is made of the fact that the big cities of Australia are producing pollution and are becoming smog ridden. What do we do? Would it not be better for us to plan more cities such as Canberra? The States cannot do this unless there is some active co-operation from the Commonwealth in giving the leadership in this direction. The Commonwealth can assist the States, by cooperation and organisation, to implement these programmes, but the States cannot do it alone because of their lack of financial resources. The local authorities in a great number of places in Queensland are becoming financially embarrassed because of the effects of the prolonged drought. They are in a difficult position. T put the proposition to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  the other day that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Cabinet should convene a meeting of representatives of local authorities so that they can find out precisely what financial difficulties they are experiencing. 
If these things are done - they can be done only by the Commonwealth - we will see some progress in that direction. But if we are just going to make carping criticism of the proposals that are put up, nothing will be achieved. I believe that the amendment has great merit. Honourable senators may criticise a word or two if they like. The Democratic Labor Party knows that the intention is to get rid of slums and rebuild, not slums, but homes fit for Australian people to live in.  Senator Poyser  should be congratulated on the way in which he introduced the amendment and highlighted the defects in the housing situation in Australia today. I ask honourable senators to support the amendment and give a lead in what should be done in this field for the advancement of Australia. 
Honourable senators will agree that this is one of the most important pieces of legislation that has been before the national Parliament for many a long day. It has its effect on all sections of the community, not only those in rural areas. It has its effect also on city dwellers and on the national economy. The attention that honourable senators have given to speakers in the debate on these Bills indicates that they also appreciate the seriousness of this legislation. The Australian Labor Party believes that the legislation is deficient in some respects and accordingly  Senator Wilkinson  has moved an amendment which gives expression to our points of view. The Opposition has no desire whatsoever to knock the legislation but we believe that acceptance of our proposal will improve the legislation and help to achieve the objectives for which it is designed. 
The Schedule is in 4 parts and part II dealing with debt reconstruction states that the purpose of the agreement is to assist a farmer who although having sound prospects of long term commercial viability, has used all his cash and credit resources and cannot meet his financial commitments. It then sets out the tests of eligibility and 1 think it is important that we read them. They are: 
The applicant is unable to obtain finance to carry on from any other normal source and is thus in danger of losing property or other assets if not assisted under the scheme. 
There is a reasonable prospect of successful operation with the assistance possible under the scheme, the prime requirement being ability to service commitments, and to reach the stage of commercial viability within a reasonable time. 
Assistance is merited and the applicant's difficulties are not substantially due to circumstances within his control. 
If we look at those tests I believe we will arrive at the conclusion that a person has to be almost bankrupt before he is eligible to receive assistance under this scheme. In order to determine how good the scheme is we must look at the type of industry in which the person is engaged, the amount of money he is to receive from the scheme and his interest repayments. The wool industry is probably the most important industry to the rural section of the community and has been over many years. What will be the situation with the wool grower who has been loaned money under this scheme? I emphasise the word 'loaned' because it is a loan attracting a rate of interest. The wool grower has to make sure that in the long term, with the assistance of the loan, he will have a profitable commercial undertaking. Can we suggest with any degree of confidence that a wool grower today would have the prospect of long term commercial profitability? We see a situation in which wool prices have decreased. Is there any indication that wool prices will increase? I would say that the evidence is to the contrary. 
But if we accept that wool prices will increase, by how much will they be required to increase to make a wool growing farm a profitable undertaking? That would be most difficult to determine. We would need a great deal of optimism to suggest that in the forseeable future wool prices will increase. But we can be sure of one thing: The way we are going in Australia today costs will increase. If the wool grower does not receive a better return from his wool but has to meet increased costs for his good, it adds to the problem of determining whether his property will be a profitable commercial enterprise. I suggest that a person would need to be particularly optimistic to see wool prices reaching the stage where they would make wool growing the profitable undertaking that it has been in the past. I repeat that I think the evidence is to the contrary. When we look at the amount of wool purchased by the Australian Wool Commission, and when we consider whether there is a cartel amongst the overseas wool buyers we begin to imagine all the difficulties in determining the profitability of the industry in the future. I have no evidence to show that price fixing is practised amongst the overseas wool buyers. However, I believe one would need to be a child of nature to suggest that something of that kind is not occurring. If one adds all these factors together one will see that it is a most difficult proposition to determine whether a farm will be a profitable undertaking in the immediate or the long term history of the industry. 
Perhaps I could refer to those people as being in category A. I think there is another category designed to be helped by this legislation, and perhaps I could refer to it as category B. The second category includes those people who are in a hopeless financial position. They will receive but little assistance. I repeat that the prospects of people in category A are not as bright as we might imagine. If one of the wool growers is loaned $100,000 he will pay interest at the rate of 4 per cent per annum on that loan. Where is he going to find the money to pay that 4 per cent per annum over the period of the loan? He will be required to pay $4,000 a year in interest alone. Unless the price of wool increases how is he to meet that commitment to start with? It should be borne in mind that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics has indicated officially that there will be no decrease in prices, but there will be an increase in costs that the farmer will have to meet in the future. 
That may be so, but we have to look at the factual situation. I believe that a person would need to use some imagination to come to the decision that this scheme will operate in the interests of those whom it is designed to help. That is why we say that the Bill is wrong in its content. It imposes financial difficulties on farmers. I suggest that it is a most difficult thing to determine whether a farm will be a profitable undertaking in the future. 
What will be the future of the wool industry in the face of these discouraging aspects of life today? One would need to be a super-optimist to suggest that the prospects are particularly bright. But let us look at the position of a wool grower who accepts a loan of $100,000. He will have to repay that $100,000 but, in addition, he will have to pay interest at the rate of 4 per cent per annum for the period of the loan. That is a substantial commitment for him to face in the future. I know the calibre of some of these people. They have hearts as big as houses, but I suggest that their pockets will need to be lined with gold to meet all their commitments in that direction. Paragraph 20 (1.) of the Schedule to the Bill gives rise to an astonishing situation. It is as follows: 
Each State agrees to operate the Scheme in such  a  way that, taking into account its experience with other schemes of rural assistance and the normal expectations as to factors that affect farmers' incomes that are current at the date of this agreement, the amounts received by the Authority in the course of the operation of the Scheme could be reasonably expected to equal the payments of principal and interest which the State is required to make to the Commonwealth under this agreement. 
So it is not only the farmer who' is involved, but the State then comes into this and is required, by the conditions set out in paragraph 20 (1.), to face up to its obligations. Paragraph 17 (1.) indicates that this Bill will impose severe hardships on anybody who receives a loan. It states: 
Interest at the rate of six per centum per annum shall accrue in respect of so much of each amount that has been advanced or paid to the State under this agreement as is repayable by the State under clause 18 of this agreement and has not for the time being been refunded or repaid to the Commonwealth, calculated from the date upon which the advance or payment was made by the Commonwealth. 
Six per cent is a fairly high interest charge. 
That is true. I appreciate that. I will turn my attention to that matter in one moment. I refer to the 4 per cent rate of interest that is required to be paid under part I of the Schedule. Paragraph 8 reads: 
The rates of interest at which moneys are lent by the Authority of a State under the Scheme shall be- 
for loans for debt reconstruction - at such rates as will average not less than four per centum per annum over all loans made; and 
for loans for farm build-up - at not less than six and one-quarter per centum per annum. 
I wonder whether the people who apply for loans will appreciate the substantial interest charges that are to be made? I repeat that I believe it is wrong that such a high interest rate should be charged to people we are trying to assist. As  Senator Maunsell  has said, these people are in dire difficulties and if interest charges of such a substantial nature are to be imposed the scheme must fail, because it will not assist the people it is designed to assist. Paragraph 1 of Part III describes the purpose of the farm build-up provisions as follows: 
To supplement, without discouraging, the normal processes under which properties which are too small to be economic are amalgamated with an adjoining holding or are subdivided and the subdivided portions are added to adjoining holdings, or to assist a farmer with a property toe  small to be economic to purchase additional land to build up his property to at least economic size. 
I emphasise the term 'at least economic size*. How can anybody determine an economic size of properties in the rural sector today? How can anybody accurately predict that it will be possible to build up a property to at least economic size in  5  years or  10  years? 
That could quite easily be true. The point I am making is that farmers are to be loaned money on which interest is to be paid, but it will be necessary to determine whether their properties are at least an economic size. In view of the conditions prevailing in the rural sector today I suggest that to determine an economic size for a property is almost impossible. Paragraph  (3)  (c) gives details of the nature of the assistance to be furnished. It provides for assistance to include: 
Advances, at an interest rate not less than six and one-quarter per centum per annum, for carry-on expenses, plant, livestock, and property development in respect of the additional land where not available from other sources. 
Because finance is not available from other sources a farmer will borrow to finance his carry-on expenses, plant, livestock and property development. He will pay interest at 6* per cent annually on his borrowings. What are his prospects? Can anybody say authoritatively that his prospects are sound? Asking a farmer to pay 6£ per cent interest per annum is surety not the way to help him and others like him who are in dire difficulties at present. 
Possibly he would. I wish to draw the Minister's attention to some positive and abstract features associated with the interest charge. I have quoted a paragraph which provides for interest to be charged at 6i per cent per annum. I invite honourable senators now to consider paragraph (4) fh) of Part III, which provides: 
The rate of interest payable on advances made by the authority under the farm build-up proposal will be set by the Authority, but will not be less than six and one-quarter per centum per annum. 
So there is no escape from his paying  6i  per cent interest. The rate is set out in  2  paragraphs of the Schedule. 
I refer now to the section of the legislation which deals with the question of rehabilitation. Again I think honourable senators will find that this is hardly a charitable proposition nor a worthwhile contribution to those to whom it is directed. Part IV refers to the question of rehabilitation, and its purpose is as follows: 
To provide limited assistance to those obliged to leave the industry where in the opinion of tha Authority administering the scheme this is necessary to alleviate conditions of personal hardship. 
But the conditions of eligibility which have to be met are these: 
The applicant's property must have been purchased by #n adjoining owner who has been assisted under the farm build-up provisions to make the purchase or the applicant must have been unable to secure assistance under the debt reconstruction provisions because his property is assessed not to have sound prospects of long term commercial viability. 
I will stop there for the moment. If a person's farm does not appear to have sound long term commercial prospects he meets that condition. The other condition is that the applicant's property must have been purchased by an adjoining owner who has been assisted under the farm build-up provisions. If the applicant does not meet either of those conditions he gets nothing whatsoever. Perhaps he might be lucky if he does not get anything. If current events continue, it might be better for him to walk off his farm. But providing he meets either condition of eligibility - I want honourable senators particularly to note this - the nature of assistance to be provided h a loan on such conditions as to interest rate, if any, and repayment as are determined by the Authority up to a maximum of  $1,000  in any one case'. The applicant will be provided with the magnificent sum of  $1,000  with which to rehabilitate himself and his family. But that money will not be given to him as a grant; it will be a loan and it will have to be repaid. 
I ask honourable senators to visualise the circumstances of a person in this category. Although I could refer to any State of the Commonwealth, I hope honourable senators will pardon me if I use Queensland as an illustration. Let us consider a person at Blackhall, which is 640 miles from Brisbane.  His  farm is completely gone. He is over his head in debt and he sells his farm. Then he receives a loan of $1,000 with which to rehabilitate himself and his family. He goes to the city. What will he do in the city? There is no provision whatsoever in the Bill under which he can be retrained in any occupation. He may never be retrained in a skilled trade. There are some semi-skilled trades in which he may be retrained. But this Bill makes no provision whatsoever for that. This person probably has spent all of his life on his property and he comes down to a metropolitan area and is thrown on to his own resources. Probably he does not know one main street from another. Yet there is no provision in the legislation which tells him how to go about getting retrained or how to go about obtaining employment. Yet we use the word 'rehabilitation' in connection with this man. 
I am not aware what he could do in those circumstances, but obviously it would be a financial loss to him. I am pointing out the failings, as I see them, of the Bill as it stands. I repeat: It is a most important piece of legislation. It is not one which can be taken lightly. It is one which will affect many people over the next decade. Therefore, we have to be sure that in trying to assist primary producers we do not deprive them of their rights because they have been an important unit in production for Australia. In the main, it is not their fault that they are suffering hardship on the farms. It is because of adverse circumstances. 
We are a most unusual race of people. We become so emotional about some things. If there is an earthquake in Peru or if there are tragic bushfires in Tasmania, we become so emotional; rightly so. We pour out money to these people in their distress. 
Certain members of the Labor Party are going there to assist people in this country. If  Senator Webster  cannot appreciate that point of view it is only because of his blind political ignorance. We become emotional about these issues - rightly so - because we want to help human beings in distress. But human beings are in distress in Australia today. I would suggest that although this legislation sets out with the admirable objective of trying to assist primary producers, in a lot of cases it will prove an additional hardship to them. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (10.12)  -  I had hoped that I would not be expected to speak on this Bill tonight because I am involved in my lifetime of experience on the frontiers of Australia in the early days of my life when the frontiers were being pushed back and when families cleared the land, lived in primitive conditions and, after spending a lifetime on it, some of them made good, and some of them failed. My next experience of this problem of Australian life occurred in the tragic years, which I have never forgotten - men of my generation will never forget them - both in the city and in the country. I am relating my remarks at present to the problems of the country where I saw people who literally, as  Senator Milliner  mentioned just now, had to leave their properties. Driving along a road or moving along a road with a mob of cattle or sheep, one would probably stop and say to someone: 'Who lived there?' He would say: 'They have gone. The game has beaten them'. I had thought that this would never happen again in my lifetime, but I see it happening again in my lifetime. It is a catalogue of tragedy. 
The interesting point, if it can be interesting in these tragic circumstances, is that on each occasion that these events have taken place in the Australian primary economic area the reasons have been different. In the first instance, the means used in pushing back the frontier to develop this country were sinew, muscle and the most primitive form of life and living. With small accretions of a profit and loss account, when labour was not counted as part of the cost, eventually these people made good. In 1930 the problem was the failure of the world economic system to sustain the capacity for nations to buy that which they needed or for sales to be made, because people had no money. 
When we turn to the present we find that the reason for the economic depression in the primary area of this country, in which there are great resources in terms of money, is that the cost structure in other areas of development has pushed the cost of producing everything on the land up to a point where the primary producer no longer is able to bear the burden of the cost structure that has been placed upon him.  Senator Lillico  made that quite clear. I have no doubt that every honourable senator who has any experience of life in the countryside today will readily admit, although I doubt whether the economists would admit it, that in this period of declining prices and increasing costs the primary producer has used every device that lay within his wits in an effort to absorb the cost structure that has been placed upon him. 1 know that the learned men on the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, when national wage cases are considered and the cost structure of primary industry is mentioned, merely say blandly: That is a responsibility of the Government. We can look only at the totality of the national wealth expressed in money terms'. They have paid little heed, until their last arbitral decision on hours of work, to whether the primary producer in Australia can continue to absorb the increasing costs, which have a multiplier effect, in view of the decline in prices. 
It is interesting to discover - one can generalise on this point, but I am speaking in the context of where my experience lies, namely in the high rainfall area of the south-eastern Australia - that part of the problem that faces the small farmer has been caused by governments which, backed by the resources and concepts of economists and agricultural scientists, have been encouraging primary producers to develop their resources and to increase their production and their productivity on the basis that this will absorb the effects of the rising cost structure. A great number of primary producers have gone on to the money market and borrowed money in order to do these sorts of things, which they have been encouraged to do by government education, extension services, encouragement of farm clubs and so on. 
We have the illustration of the wool industry in the high rainfall area of south eastern Australia, where men of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, after looking at the problems in wool production, encouraged a great number of wool producers in that area to go in for high density stocking. The idea seemed all right on the basis of fairly widespread laboratory tests, but it ruined a great number of wool growers in Australia. I quote that only to illustrate the fact that governments, both State and Federal, along wih other people, bear a large share of the responsibility for producing the circumstances in which primary producers find themselves at the present time. 
I rise in my place tonight, first of all to take the populace view on this because I see this, perhaps wrongly, in terms of a problem of people, and I see it in economic terms next. The tragedy when dealing with and debating this Bill is that there is no place in government for financing for a sense of compassion, nor can there be; there can exist only an area in which we attempt to devise the greatest good for the greatest number. Probably our efforts will fall into nothing because we will achieve little that we are expecting from this measure. I say this because notwithstanding anything that  Senator Milliner  said, we have 3 problems, which are not similar problems, in the wool industry for example. 
The problem of the wool grower in western Queensland of which  Senator Maunsell  has been speaking is different from the problem of the wool grower in the mixed farming areas in South Australia or Western Australia where wool growing can go in conjunction with a diversification of other products, such as wheat, barley or oats. But it becomes finally an almost intractable problem when we consider the high rainfall zone where most of the sheep numbers of Australia tend to be carried. It looks as though we are back to an old problem again. A great number of people wish to stay on the land, irrespective of whether it is profitable for them. They cling to the land. I have seen them clinging to the land merely because this is the place where they can have a home and perhaps run a few sheep. They are not interested in the economics of it. 
On the other hand, there are a great number of people who, under the impetus of government agencies, put themselves into substantial areas of debt in order to increase their production as the push of prices and increased costs bore down on them. They have devoted their lives to the land. I am thinking specifically of a great number of ex-service settlers in my own State who served their country honestly and faithfully in war, who have continued to serve their country honestly and faithfully as farmers, who have reared their children decently, who are now in a situation of extreme poverty and who are not in any position, at their age, to leave the land after a lifetime of struggle in war and peace. What would they become in the urbanised conglomerates? They are not fitters and turners, they cannot be taught to use a lathe and they cannot become plasterers or painters. They cannot get into the high wage earning area. They are in fact people who are being thrown on the industrial scrap heap. The nation owes something more than this to the primary producers of this country. 
One of the characteristics of a society which is building up its secondary industries and its tertiary industries is that it does this constantly by destroying the citizenry who live on the land. This is the history of the country which invented the industrial revolution. The decline of the farming community in the United Kingdom was a remorseless process which went on for nearly 100 years. In that time there were swept away from the Scottish Highlands, the Irish lands and the Welsh hills, thousands of people who eventually found their way to the United States of America, Canada or Australia and sought to reestablish themselves on the land. This they did. But it seems to me that in the fullness of time we are beginning to repeat the lesson that we should have learned long ago from the development of this remorseless process in other countries. This happened in the United States of America where a whole generation was driven off the land after the 1914-18 war. It is happening in Canada at present. It is certainly developing in New Zealand to a much lesser extent than it is here. The primary producers bore the brunt of the development of secondary industries in Australia in the 1920s. They produced the income by which the great secondary industries and service industries in Aus tralia developed in the 1950s and the 1960s and I think that they require more in their travail than has been proffered at the present moment. 
I support the Bill for one reason and that is because it is a humane step and, I believe, an economic step towards helping to retrieve the situation into which we, as politicians, have got the area of primary industry - and let no honourable senator sitting here say that he is without sin. The essence of the present attempt to improve the position is contained in part III of the Schedule which relates to farm build up. There must be a build up in area because this tends to produce an increase in stock carried and reduce the labour required. I do not know what area would be required in western Queensland, but I suppose that under average conditions one could increase the number of sheep carried on a given property by anything up to 33 per cent or, perhaps, 50 per cent without increasing the amount of labour required to maintain them. One may have to accept an increased loss rate from natural circumstances of one sort or another but the fact is that in the economics of the wool growing industry a pattern has been worked out over the 120 or so years of settlement in Australia. An economic area is one which will carry a minimum of about 10,000 sheep under average conditions. If a property is running substantially fewer than 10,000 sheep or an equivalent number of cattle, then there is not much hope of seeing that area rehabilitated. 
Sub-paragraph (d) of paragraph (4) is probably the key to the problem that must be faced in the context of the wool industry. It states: 
Since it is required that there must be reasonable prospects of successful operation of the builtup property, the Authority in considering the transfer price of land will have regard to its productivity value. 
In simple terms that means the capacity of the individual. There may be 2 equal areas of land as to size, rainfall, soil types and sheep. One man, because he is skilled, will make a profit and the other man will make a loss. The test comes back to the capacity of individuals to take advantage of and properly use the resources that society will now place behind them. If they cannot do that, I foresee an inevitable tragedy, one which I had hoped never again to witness in my life. I regard the Bill as only a first step towards dealing with this problem. It is an urgent step which must be taken, and for that reason I commend the Bill. 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate been directed to the headlines on the front page of this morning's issue of the 'Canberra Times' which read as follows: 'Australia takes softer line on USSR'? Does the Minister agree that this phrase properly interprets .the Government's changed policy on its future relationships with the USSR? 
To use the phrase that is sometimes used I think the report could be called journalistic licence. We all live with that; it is a fact of life. I have not read the article. 1 can refer only to the point the honourable senator makes in his question. I have seen in the journals this morning in the limited time available to me a reference to a speech by the Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  at a function last evening in Sydney. As I read the article, what he has put down seems to me to be quite logical and proper and a fair statement of Australia's attitude in relation to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. It should be remembered that the USSR has an embassy in Canberra and that we have trade relations with the USSR. To suggest that there is a movement away from an earlier attitude and a soft line approach is a distortion of the realities of the situation. 
Has the Minister of Health any knowledge of the installation in the New South Wales Liverpool District Hospital of sophistocated electronic and telecommunication equipment which allows instant communication between patients and nursing staffs? If the equipment installed is successful, will the Minister investigate the possibility of its installation in all public hospitals throughout the Commonwealth? 
(Queensland) - I seek leave to make a statement. - 
I prefer to have it on the record at this stage. . 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave, is granted. 
I hope the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  was not suggesting that I was being unfair in my interpretation of the second reading speech. With due respect, the Minister did use the word 'unfairness*. I suggest that he indicated that I was being unfair in not reading the passages which he himself read. If the Minister looks at the record he will find that I read almost the identical passages to which he referred. It is useless for him to say otherwise. I hope we can have an assurance from the Minister that he did not indicate, nor imply that I was being unfair in my approach to this subject. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
 I rise merely to speak in terms of short term policies. I have asked the Government on at least 3 occasions since 1 have been in the Senate to give consideration to reviewing the zone allowances set out in the income tax legislation for people living in remote areas of the States. I have received a very polite answer to the effect that these matters will be considered by the Government at Budget time. Although the Government may have considered them, there has been nothing of a positive nature coming from discussions. People in western Queensland, in particular, are in severe difficulties. I do not think anyone would doubt that statement. Members of the Australian Country Party referred to this situation last Friday, and it is true indeed. Businesses are falling off and people are finding it difficult to maintain jobs in the area. If they are to be encouraged to stay in such areas I know of no greater incentive than for them to be treated more leniently with respect to taxation deductions. 
I am not speaking of the farmers. I thought I had discussed this at length on Friday when I criticised the Bill which  Senator Little  and his colleagues saw fit to favour. The Australian Labor Party senators voted against it because of the things  Senator Little  now says. I am pleading for the ordinary people who live in these areas because the scale of taxation has been eroded over the years and the zone allowances are completely disproportionate to what was the original intention. I commend to the Government that it give favourable consideration to reviewing zone allowances for taxation purposes when it next considers this matter. This morning I received from the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  a reply to a question and I hope that local authorities will take up that reply because local authorities are finding it difficult to maintain the work schedule that is required urgently in some of these remote areas. Some people in the western areas of Queensland do not have the money to pay their rates and all the honourable senators know that local authorities rely heavily and principally on the rate money they collect. I hope that if members of any local authority are listening to the broadcast of proceedings today they will listen to a section of the answer that I received from the Leader of the Government in the Senate this morning. I asked whether the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  would seek a conference of local authorities so that they could be made aware at first hand of the financial problems of local authorities. The Prime Minister declined that request but he held out hope in another direction because the final paragraph of the answer to question No. 1140 states: 
If State governments were to call a conference to discuss local government finances the Commonwealth Government would be prepared to participate. 
I hope that local authorities will heed that suggestion and will put pressure on the State governments so that a conference can be convened in which the Commonwealth Government will be prepared to participate. 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister is supplementary to that asked by  Senator Lawrie.  Can the Minister indicate the date on which the Prime Minister received an application for financial assistance for those people in central western Queensland to whom  Senator Lawrie  referred? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONAt question time it is very difficult for me to give details such as dates. I will undertake some research to see if the date is in my brief somewhere and if it is I will supply the information later on. Whilst I may be able to deal with the generalities of what was anticipated by the Prime Minister or the Premier, representing a lot of Ministers as I do it is difficult for me to give particular dates immediately upon being asked for them. I will get the information for the honourable senator but I cannot give it to him instantly. 
 I had not intended to enter this debate until I heard charges of sectarianism and that the nature of the amendment moved by the Opposition was a lie. I feel that, in support of the Opposition's intentions, I must rise and address myself to one or two aspects of the Bill. May I say at the outset that there was no intention whatsoever on the part of the Opposition to raise this issue "orv a sectarian note. I challenge anybody in the Senate today to point out in  Senator Wheeldon's  speech any passage in which he charged anybody with sectarianism. 
I am talking of senators here today. Who raised the issue of sectarianism? lt was  Senator Little  himself. He was the ohe who raised the sectarianism issue, and that is the way he wants to live. I could criticise a lot of such suggestions today but it would do no good. What is the situation before us today? The Bill was not provided to us so that we could discuss its intentions at our caucus meeting. We just had some figures presented to us which did not clarify a great deal. The Opposition believes that the Bill will inflict an injustice on state school children. Would it matter and would it alter the course of events of the world if I told honourable senators about some of the conditions in state schools in Queensland today? I could quite easily tell of instances where children are taught their lessons under the school and are exposed to draughts, wind and rain. That would not do any good. 
The test of the amendment is whether the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  who represents the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn)  in this chamber can dispute the figures that have been presented by  Senator Wheeldon.  That is the only basis for the amendment. Obviously, anybody who looks for words in the amendment that may be omitted or words 

 States Grants (Science which are there and should not be there is trying to make trouble. For the information of the people of Australia let me repeat that our amendment seeks to have the Bill withdrawn and redrafted with a view to increasing the grant for schools conducted by a State to the same amount per pupil as the grant for schools not conducted by a State. The title of this Bill is the States Grants (Science Laboratories) Bill 1971. What, therefore, is the intention of the amendment? lt is to withdraw the States Grants (Science Laboratories) Bill and redraft it to make provision to meet what we believe to be the situation which exists.- Surely no-one would criticise - an Opposition which believes that a -section of the community, is being treated unfairly. Surely no-one would criticise an Opposition for raising some aspect that may have escaped the attention of the Government. Surely it is our responsibility to do that very thing, and that precisely is what we have done.  - 1  reject any suggestion that the matter was raised on a sectarian issue, lt was not raised on a sectarian issue. I know of some private schools which will not be able to use the money. I know of a school - I mention now that it is a Church of England school in case I am charged with being sectarian - which recently wanted $750,000 to provide a new building. Do you know how long it took the school to raise that money? It took exactly 2 months because a donor from the Bahamas gave $500,000 towards the construction of that new building. 
 1  agree - congratulations to him. I think he was a very fine fellow to do it. Let no-one try to tell me that that school would want a grant from the Commonwealth to the same extent as would some other schools, whether they be private schools or state schools. These are the inequalities that are creeping into our school system. I refer to another public school. Again, in case I am charged with being sectarian I mention that it is the Brisbane Grammar School. The headmaster went on television and said that he could not use the money which would be granted to his school under this Bill. He did not know what he would do with it. As I have said, there are inequalities. If we 

 Laboratories) Bill 2085  believe that children in state schools are being prejudiced as a result of this Bill it is our responsibility, and indeed our duty, to raise the matter in this -House for investigation by the Minister and by the Government. Unfortunately a lot of side issues have arisen. The fact is that if  Senator Wheeldon's  figures are accurate, the Government has a case to answer. I leave it at that. 
1 address myself to this Bill with a fair amount of misgiving. It amazes me to think that the members of the Government apparently were the only people in Australia interested in this industry who did not know of the difficulties which were facing this canning factory in Victoria. Quite frankly, I have heard this matter discussed in our lobbies by  Senator Poyser,  by other honourable senators from Victoria and also by members of the House of Representatives who represent Victorian electorates. They were all well aware of the difficulties which were confronting this Company. It surprises me that the Government did not have some prior knowledge of these difficulties because, as I say, they were obvious to members of the Australian Labor Party who had visited the area quite frequently. 
I turn to the Bill itself. One matter greatly disturbs me. The difficulties which confronted this Company were known to both the Victorian and Commonwealth governments, yet this Parliament sat in November and no indication whatsoever was given to it that it was proposed to extend financial relief to this Company by way of a loan to the Victorian State Government. Perhaps I am being a little harsh when I say that in my opinion Cabinet should have at least indicated to Parliament that it proposed to do something for the Company, but this was not done. We have the situation where in between sittings of this Parliament-- that is, between November last year and February this year, an agreement was at least entered into if not signed, that money would be paid to the Victorian Government as from 31st December 1970. 
Where did this put the Parliament? One would have thought that the Government would have introduced this legislation very early in this session and would have made some explanation as to why this agreement was reached in between the sittings of this Parliament. But the Government did not do that. The legislation was not introduced until the dying stages of this session. It did not matter one iota whether the legislation was amended by this Parliament because the financial agreement had already been reached. To my way of thinking it is not right for the Executive to by-pass the Parliament in this way. I regard it as a fairly serious matter. 
I shall take the argument one step further and the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  will be aware of the veracity of the statement that I am about to make. At the final caucus meeting of the Australian Labor Party in this session we were unable to study the provisions of the Bill. We were told that there was to be a Bill to assist a packaging company in Victoria. We were not aware of the contents of the Bill. I think that it is most unfair of the Government not to provide the Opposition with the. actual terms of proposed legislation so that the Opposition can examine it in detail. I believe it is wrong for the Executive to handle the affairs of this country in that way. It may be said that the Government was not aware of the difficulties, confronting the Company. But the Minister, in his second reading speech, said: 
Honourable senators will be aware from public reports of the extent of the difficulties that the company has encountered over the last 2 years, extending to the company's inability to finance in full payments to growers for fruit delivered in the 1970 season. 
In effect the Minister said that the Government knew of these problems. But the Government did not take Parliament into its confidence or give Parliament an opportunity to consider any legislation programme that it had in mind to introduce to assist in overcoming this problem. I believe that it is wrong for Cabinet to act in this way between sessions of Parliament and it is wrong for the  Government, having acted in an emergency, not to bring the legislation before Parliament as quickly as possible instead of leaving it to the dying stages of the session. It would not matter what amendment was moved now. It would have no effect because the money has been paid. 
The Government entering the lending field is almost a new development. I do not know that there have been many occasions on which the Government has lent money to a company. To my mind the amount is a fairly substantial sum - $4.2m. If the . Government intends to indulge in this type of activity, I believe that it should come clean and tell us what it intends to do. I can visualise this measure being taken as establishing a precedent. I am not worried about good precedents; but if a private company in some remote area of Australia experiences difficulties does it have to explain how those difficulties came about, whether it was because of bad administration in the enterprise or whether it was because of circumstances? In this instance we are not told even that. The Minister's second reading speech gives no indication as to why the Company experienced difficulty. We assume that it was because of a glut in production. It may -have been, as I have been told unofficially, that the- Company tried to extend its operations too quickly and therefore overcapitalised. I do not know, but the Government certainly has not taken us into its confidence. If the Government intends to Hang 3 balls outside Parliament House, I think we must have a very serious look at the situation. 
I join with other honourable senators in saying that I am astounded at the rate of interest which the Government is charging on the loan to the Victorian Government, which will pay that money to the Company. A rate of 7 per cent is substantial. If anybody is in financial difficulties, I do not know why we do not go to his assistance. The money that the Commonwealth handles is the people's money. I do not think the people would want to impose interest rates of 7 per cent on somebody who has fallen on unfortunate times. 
That is probably quite an appropriate remark. I think the honourable senator might endorse my view that, if the Government intends to indulge in this kind of activity, it might as well hang 3 balls outside Parliament House. 
I deal now with priorities. What are the priorities in this field? The Bill says that we are lending to the Victorian Government $4.2m which in turn will be lent to the Company at an interest rate of 7 per cent. Where do we stop? Previously, in Parliament I have referred to central Queensland as a disaster area. One probably could not think of anything more defeatist than the frame of mind of the people in that area. They have been asking for financial support for quite a considerable time. In a debate the other night it came out that the Government is considering lending or granting $ 10m to the people there. Surely, if that is in the mind of the Government, the Parliament should be taken into the confidence of the Government. We have heard nothing official from the Government. In a speech' the other night a member of the Country Party injected this thought into the debate. It was followed this morning by a question by another Queensland Country Party senator. I have no quarrel with their raising the matter. That is their responsibility. I have asked several questions about this drought stricken area. I was never told that the Government was giving consideration to lending or granting $10m to help the people there. - 1 am not quarrelling because the Government held out on me. I am quarrelling because it has not taken Parliament into its confidence. 
Over a week ago certain events happened in the other place. AH honourable senators know what happened. I do not want to refer to what happened. Surely the sitting of the other place could have been extended so that the Government could have made people aware of its propositions to assist people in this area. One of the Country Party members in that place - honourable senators know whom I mean - at a Country Party conference referred to Great Britain, Sweden and other nations as mongrel nations because they would not become involved in the war in Vietnam. 
That was  Mr Katter.  He is the Country Party member who represents Kennedy. He said this up Rockhampton way. In Parliament he said that what he said was only a jest. It was a pretty poor form of jest for him to call our allies, people whom we respect, mongrel nations. The Government has not given him the opportunity to ventilate in Parliament some of the things that he should have been ventilating. Because the Government was anxious to push through its legislative programme, by using the guillotine and curtailing debate, he and everybody else had no opportunity to ventilate their thoughts. I believe that it is entirely wrong for Parliament to be ignored in that way. I know that the hon- ourable member will send telegrams from country areas to the Prime Minister complaining of the lack of enterprise in the Government in trying to assist in this way. But he should have been saying this in Parliament where he can represent his constituents more effectively and appropriately. 
People in western Queensland refer to the area as a disaster area. The Queensland Premier went there. Me said 'This is a disaster area. I cannot do anything for you by way of finance, but on your behalf 1 will make representations to the Federal Government'. This morning I asked when he made . those representations. Nobody knew. The Minister could not tell me when the representations were made. I raise these . issues in order to determine the priorities. People these who have done so much for Austrafia - ki a lot of instances they are pioneers m the rural industry - are now pleading with the Government to do something for them in return. Nothing has been done. Yet a company in Victoria has received a loan of $4.2m and we do not know why it wanted the money or why it ran into financial difficulties. I question where the priorities in these matters are. Knowing that there are so many difficulties in western Queensland I question whether $10 would be of substantial assistance. 
In Longreach since 1967 the following businesses have closed: 2 grocery businesses; 2 electrical businesses, which include contracting sales and services: one refrigeration and air conditioning company; 3 building contractors; 4 mixed stores; one cafe; one men's hairdresser; one florist; one solicitor's practice; one accounting firm; one petrol service station; one sewing machine centre; one office supplier; one optometrist; one laundry; one dry cleaning firm; one stock and station agency branch; one valuer; one fruit and vegetable business; one long-established motor business; another, dealing in 4-wheel drive vehicles, has been placed in the hands of managing agents; and one established private air charter service. I repeat: Where are the priorities? The town of Longreach is dying on its feet. People are leaving the area. They are being forced to leave and go to the city because there is no work in the area for them. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has been saying that decentralisation is the goal and must be the continual goal of the country; yet he himself put up a proposition to Cabinet recently that §40m should be injected into rural industry, and the Liberal members of the Cabinet headed by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  threw the proposition out. That has been reported quite widely in country newspapers and in the 'Australian'. I repeat that I view the legislation quite seriously,- because it is a precedent that could lead to many difficulties for the Government. I object strenuously to the agreement having been effected without Parliament being given a proper opportunity to look at the proposed legislation. I object to the 7 per cent interest that is being charged. In fact, I believe it is something that Parliament should find intolerable, and in my opinion the Government has been entirely wrong in handling the matter as it has. 
In the legislation before the Senate tonight we see many changes being made to the existing compensation laws, and it would be foolish to say otherwise. Of course, we believe that the changes are not sufficiently significant to enable us to say that it is a good Bill. When we consider the changes that are taking place in all spheres of influence today, we question whether the changes which are to be made to the existing compensation laws by this legislation meet the position in the 1970s. After all is said and done, in 1964 the Government promised that it would review Commonwealth employee's compensation and introduce legislation to provide for any necessary changes. We have waited 7 years for this legislation to be introduced. Possibly sometimes the delay has been due to the Government in not pursuing the matter; other times it might have been the fault of other people. Nevertheless, a substantial period has elapsed since the legislation was first promised. Now we have the legislation before us tonight. 
I thought that the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood)  expressed some surprise when  Senator Cavanagh  said that we did not have sufficient time to debate the matter fully. But the fact is we have been told that if we were to move any amendments to the Bill and if those amendments were accepted it would dealy the implementation of the Bill and it would not take effect until the Budget session of Parliament. I believe that this is wrong. If amendments are made by the Senate they should be acted upon. 

 - Senator Wright says that but, with due respect, I suggest that he is wrong. I base that on the fact that we have been told that we cannot move any amendments to this legislation. Therefore, we do not propose to move any amendments to it. 
Of course we did not propose any in the other place because we were told precisely the same thing. I do not intend to argue with  Senator Wright  on this issue. All I say is that we were given the message that we could not move any amendments to the legislation, and we have acted upon it. With due respect to  Senator Wright,  I suggest that what I am saying is correct. I do not believe that it is a fair proposition to hold the gun at the head of the Opposition in that way. When  Senator Wright  is finished having a conversation with his colleagues I will continue. 
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread. If  Senator Marriott  would care to check with his Whip he would find why there are not many of my colleagues here tonight. I ask him not to make an issue of this matter when an arrangement has been entered into between the Whips. I ask him not to try to make political capital out of it. He will not get any political mileage by trying to destroy an agreement which has been reached between the Government and Opposition Whips. 
I take umbrage at that remark, on behalf of the Opposition. I repeat that we were informed- 
By the Government Whip in the other place, that if we were to move any amendments to the legislation and if they were accepted, it would delay the implementation of the Bill because the amendments would have to be considered in the Budget session of the Parliament. As a result, any improvements which will be made by this legislation - and I admit that there are improvements - would be denied to workers who may suffer injury on the job in the intervening period. But that is beside the point. I believe that it is a completely fallacious argument for  Senator Wright  to say that the reason why we will not propose any amendments to the legislation is because of our unimaginative approach to the matter. We would require the Government to give consideration to numerous sections of the Act. 
I want to raise the matter of the incapacity payments. The Government has legislated for payment of the magnanimous sum of $35 a week where the injury to the employee results in the employee being totally incapacitated for work. This is an insignificant amount compared with what workers are earning today. It always appears to me to be a complete and utter anomaly that a worker who may be unfortunate enough to become sick gets full pay, but if he is injured on the job his earnings are reduced - in some instances by up to 70 per cent. Many workers in industry earn up to $120 or $150 a week. I know of one section of government employees, for whom an agreement was negotiated recently, who can earn up to $196 a week for a 38-hour week. One might say that that is an extreme case, but I believe that it would be accepted that many workers in industry today are receiving easily, and probably more than, $100 a week. That is their living standard. Having attained $100 a week, they live to that standard. If they are injured on the job, when pursuing their normal duties, their salary is reduced to $35 a week. I trust that the Government will give urgent consideration to this matter. 
The $35 a week is an expressed amount. Let me remind the Government that we have become accustomed to - and it would appear that there will continue to be - a national wage case each year. The next decision will probably be handed down in November. If we anticipate what might happen in the 1971 national wage case, it is easy to visualise that there could be another increase of 6 per cent or more because of the cost of living rising so rapidly since the last review. Assuming that there is a 6 per cent increase in wages generally, that represents $6 or $7 a week increase for the workers to whom I refer. A worker who is injured must wait until such time as Parliament assembles to have the payment of $35 a week adjusted. It is inconceivable that the Government would not adjust it in line with a national wage case. I do not know whether the Minister has given any thought to this matter, but I believe that it is important, in the interests of the worker, that this matter should influence the Government to look seriously at what can be done to protect the rights of the workers. I offer the suggestion that the Government should accept what is awarded generally to workers and insert in the legislation a provision that an increase resulting from a national wage case decision shall be added automatically to the $35 a week. Of course, I would hope that the Government would accept the proposition that the earnings of a worker should not be reduced when he is on workers compensation. 
I can assure the Minister that there are numerous industrial agreements which contain this proviso. I know several within the industry with which I am associated. The employers have accepted this. At present there is a dispute in the building trades industry in New South Wales. The workers are pressing for this reform. I believe that is understandable in the building trades industry, where there are so many jobs of a dangerous nature to be done. There have been innumerable occasions when workers have suffered an injury while working on the numerous high rise buildings being constructed to-day. It is understandable, therefore, that the workers are now campaigning for average earnings if they are injured on the jobs. I believe that the Master Builders Association would accede to this demand and acknowledge this to be a just demand if other employer organisations did not put pressure on the Master Builders Association to refrain from granting this reform. That is merely a suspicion and does not add anything to the comments on the Bill. 
I repeat that times are changing. Yesterday's Brisbane 'Courier Mail' contained a report about the National Labour Advisory Council's activities in Melbourne. The report stated: 
The National Labour Advisory Council said in Melbourne yesterday that it believed talks on the operation of the Arbitration Act should be extended to a wider employer-employee group. 
On the surface, that does not sound a great deal. On examination, it does show a fundamental change in the attitude of people interested in industry. I hope that the change will be successful and that much greater peace in industry will prevail as a result of that change. Matters are changing for the better. We would urge the Government to give consideration to agreeing to the proposition that workers should receive their normal weekly earnings when they are injured on the job. I believe it is appropriate that that should be done. If it is not done, I would urge the Minister to give consideration to the fact that the legislation will have to be amended on each occasion that there is a national wage increase. There will have to be a continuing alteration of legislation. We should endeavour to overcome that position in some way. In Queensland the amount of compensation was set as a percentage of the basic wage. If the basic wage rose so did the injured worker's entitlement rise. Under the Commonwealth legislation there is a permanent $35 a week. I believe that the Government should give serious consideration to improving that situation. 

 - Senator Gair was not the whole Queensland Government at the time. He was a member of the Government. That is all he was. Representations which he would not accept were made to him but his Cabinet overruled him. He should not take praise for all those things. The Cabinet had to overrule him on other things, and he knows quite well that that is the case. 
We would ask that the membership of a compensation tribunal be extended. At present the Governor-General appoints a commissioner. We believe that such appointments should be extended to 3 representatives. The Government should exercise the right to appoint one member, one member should be a representative from the trade union movement and the other member should be a representative from the employers. We do applaud tripartite organisations. We believe that to increase the membership of a tribunal would strengthen the provisions of the Act. 
In the past there have been numerous unfortunate cases in which workers have been dismissed while receiving workers' compensation. This has always appeared to me to be a callous approach by an employer. I am not accusing all employers of adopting that attitude. Nevertheless several employers have adopted the attitude that, when a. worker is on workers' compensation, he should be dismissed from his employment. This is particularly so when the award refers to employment with an employer as against service with an employer. If the award provides for employment, a worker is entitled to claim his annual leave at the same time each year notwithstanding the fact that he could have been on workers' compensation for a limited period. I believe that the Government would not approve of such callous disregard for a worker, and I hope that the Minister and his representatives will take into consideration what I have said. 
I mention another problem which 1 am sure every organisation experiences. An injured worker who has been on workers' compensation may have recovered sufficiently to be able to do light work. He may be sent back to the employer to do light work. In a lot of industries there is no light work as such and consequently the employee is in an invidious position. Those responsible for paying the workers' compensation may say that a man is fit to work, but no employment can be obtained for. him because he has not recovered fully from the injury. This is a matter that has caused a considerable number of problems in industry. I draw the Minister's attention to the definition of 'prescribed court' which appears on page 4 of the Bill. I refer particularly to Queensland. The definition states that 'prescribed court' means: 
the Workers' Compensation Commission of New South Wales; 
the Industrial Court of South Australia; 
a court of a Slate (other than New South Wales or South Australia) or of a Territory of the Commonwealth, being a court that has limited civil jurisdiction in personal actions and can be constituted only by a Judge; 
I believe it would have been better if the legislation had set out precisely what court is to determine the issues in the respective States. Another new departure in this legislation is that it will be administered by the Department of Social Services. I can speak only of Queensland. I would say that the experience of ali Federal members from Queensland has been that the Department of Social Services has treated people quite leniently in a lot of cases. There have been instances when it has taken a hard line, but nevertheless this change is an experiment which I believe will be successful. We certainly hope so. 
The Schedule provides for $13,500 compensation for the loss of 2 eyes. I would ask the Minister to review that amount. After all it is very serious indeed for a worker to lose 2 eyes.  His  earnings could well be reduced to almost nil from there on, and to my way of thinking the $13,500 that would be paid to him is an insufficient amount. He may be required to make structural alterations to his home as a result of losing his eyesight. If that were the case it would not be long before the $13,500 was exhausted. The widow of an employee who is killed will receive a lump sum payment of $13,500. Again that is not a particularly high amount in these days of rising costs and rising wages and salaries. I repeat that 1 believe the Minister should seriously consider increasing this amount. I notice also that the Bill makes no provision for weekly compensation payments in respect of dependent student children after they reach 21 years of age. I think this is a weakness because many lads over the age of 21 years of age who are going to university today are still dependent on their parents' earnings. I believe this matter should be given some consideration. The amount of $9,450 does not appear to me to be a particularly high sum to be paid to a worker who suffers a loss of speech. I wonder whether the Minister will give consideration to altering the provision that a claim for compensation must be made within 6 months of sustaining an injury. There could be circumstances which would justify a claim being made after 6 months. For example, an injury may not manifest itself until well after 6 months. I believe provision should be made for an extension of that 6 months period. 
There are changes in the legislation that will be to the advantage of the workers. I also believe that the provisions could have been improved immeasurably. Before I resume my seat may I ask the Minister to give more than favourable consideration to setting up a joint committee to examine all amendments that have been presented. I know that the Government has analysed a lot of amendments that have been presented in relation to this Bill. The Minister indicated that in his second reading speech and I accept his word, but there are still a number of issues that should be discussed by members of Parliament. I know that the Minister has said that an interdepartmental committee will be set up. With respect, I do not know whether that is entirely acceptable for the simple reason that we have had experience of interdepartmental committee reports being regarded as confidential and not being released. I offer that suggestion to the Minister because I believe that a joint committee examination of the amendments would be to the advantage of all concerned and would embrace all that can and should be expressed by members of Parliament. I believe that it would lead to the improvement of this legislation. 
Can the AttorneyGeneral indicate whether attempts to recruit additional staff for the Office of Parliamentary Counsel have been successful and whether any additional officers have been appointed? If the attempts have been unsuccessful, what steps are being taken to overcome the problem of an insufficiency of parliamentary draftsmen? 
asked the Minister for Air, upon notice:  (1)How many members of the Air Training Corps are there in Australia and where are Air Training Corps units situated? 
How many reserve officers and other ranks are associated with the Air Training Corps? 
How many permanent officers and other ranks are involved in Air Training Corps duties? 
What is the total cost to the Royal Australian Air Force in terms of clothing, equipment, administration, feeding and accommodation of Air Training Corps cadets in camp? 
What are the names of schools with Air Training Corps units and what are the sizes of these units? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Has the Post Office recently launched a campaign to advertise the priority paid mail service? Does this campaign involve sending business men a package of 4 spring loaded ping pong balls which pop out when the package is opened? What is the total cost of this promotional campaign? Does the Minister agree with  Mr Neville  Blyton,  President  of the Associated Chambers of Commerce of Australia, that this campaign is a dreadful waste of public money? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister any knowledge of the installation in the Liverpool District Hospital in New South Wales of sophisticated electronic and telecommunications equipment which allows instant communications between patients and nursing staff. 
Will the Minister investigate the possibility of having this equipment installed in all public hospitals throughout Australia, if it is successful. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Yes. I understand that the telecommunications equipment used in the Liverpool District Hospital is centred on a 'PR0411' private automaticloudspeaking exchange which is capable of serving one hundred outlets. A pilot scheme has been introduced into the Coronary and Intensive Care Units of the Hospital. A patient presses a single button (without the necessity to dial a number), situated on a loudspeaker intercommunication instrument which is built into a cabinet alongside his bed. This affords instant speech contact with the medical or nursing staff on duty in an adjacent area. The 'PR0411' intercommunication system also provides for direct dialling from the Supervisor's panel to other key areas in the hospital such as X-ray and Pathology Departments, Casualty Ward and Administration Block. 
The furnishing of equipment in public hospitals is the responsibility of State Governments. The hospitals in the Commonwealth Territories under my control already have satisfactory systems of internal communication, but if the FR0411 system which has been installed in the Liverpool District Hospital on a trial basis proves to have marked advantages I would certainly arrange for the situation to be reviewed. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. Is the Minister aware that at a meeting of the National Stevedoring Industry Council in Melbourne on Monday, 2nd August special consideration was given to safety measures that should be employed in the stevedoring industry? Will the Minister make available to the Senate a copy of that section of the transcript which deals with safety in the stevedoring industry, particularly the section outlining the submissions of the unions concerning the employment of a safety officer when ships are being worked in Australian ports? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, seeks clarification on the proposal to assist wool growers. Is it a fact that if a wool grower receives 70c a lb for his wool, he will then receive a further payment if the average weekly auction selling price is calculated at 30c a lb? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport indicate the success or otherwise of attempts by  Mr Nixon  M.P. and  Mr Bob  Hawke,  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, to settle the industrial dispute surrounding the sailing of the 
Echuca'? Without disclosing details of the discussions at the conference, will the Minister indicate whether  Mr Hawke's  influence was a factor in the anticipated settlement of the dispute? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and
              National Service. Is it a fact that  Mr C.  W.
              Jenks, the Director-General of the International Labour Organisation, is at present in
              Australia as a guest of the Australian Government? If so, will the Minister extend to
                 Mr Jenks  greetings from the people of Australia
              and encourage the extension of the peaceful objectives of the ILO? At the same time,
              will the Minister discuss with  Mr Jenks  his
              interpretation of the policy of equal pay for the sexes, and as a convenient
              comparison make known to  Mr Jenks  the workload and
              responsibilities of female secretaries to members of the Commonwealth Parliament in
              order to ascertain whether such workers should qualify for equal pay in accordance
              with the ILO Convention? 
Can the Minister for Civil Aviation indicate whether any decision has been arrived at concerning the rebuilding of the Trans-Australia Airlines airport terminal at Eagle Farm, Brisbane, or is the present structure which was almost demolished by fire to be patched up for future use? 
asked the Minister  representing the  Minister for Primary  Industry,  upon notice: 
Will a wool grower who receives 70c per lb  for  his wool receive a further payment if the average weekly auction selling price is calculatedat 30c per lb? 
asked the Minister  representing  the  Minister  for  Immigration,  upon notice: 
Were  Mr James  O'Leary, his wife and their 13 children recently flown to Australia at the expense of the Government of the State of Hawaii in the United States of America? 
Did the O'Leary family arrive in Australia without passports, and on what basis were the members of that family allowed entry? 
Is the O'Leary family presently accommodated on a boat moored among mangroves in Auckland Creek at Gladstone and is the family living on the charity of local people? 
As United States citizens has the O'Leary family applied for permanent residence in Australia? 
As previous speakers in this debate have done I offer my congratulations to the hew senators who have made their maiden speeches. I believe that it is always interesting to listen to new thoughts and fresh ideas. I offer my sincere congratulations to honourable senators on both sides of the chamber who have recently joined us. It is obvious that I do not have to offer congratulations on this score to the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
If the rabble on my left will keep quiet I may be able to explain something of importance to them. New thoughts have been expressed in the maiden speeches made in this debate. I say particularly to the new honourable senators opposite that I . hope their stay in this Parliament will be short, but fruitful and refreshing. I am a little surprised that no supporter of the Government has taken advantage of the Budget debate to refer to what I regard as a most scurrilous statement that has been written about an exPrime Minister, a member of the Liberal Party. I refer to the book 'The Gorton Experiment' written by a prominent journalist. In the book the ex-Prime Minister is referred to in most uncharitable terms. As young people are listening here in the Senate tonight - and I am not looking at honourable senators opposite when I say that - I will use a word different from that chosen by the author when I quote from his book. 
You are too infantile and too old to understand. The author of the book wrote: 
Illegitimate by birth, gregarious by habit, distrustful by nature and wilful by temperament. Gorton was Prime Minister by accident. 
I am amazed that no supporter of the Government has' taken up the cudgels on behalf of the ex-Prime Minister, as one would expect them to defend any member of - society against statements of that nature. I repeat that it is a most scurrilous statement and I record my keen disappointment that anyone present in Parliament House should have had the temerity to write in such a way about an ex-Prime Minister of the Commonwealth, in my humble opinion- 
Of course, people . who get full at dinner and come in here at night and start to raise their voices and grunt and squeal must have allowances made for. them. In my humble opinion Alan Reid's expression is contemptible and borders on the reprehensible. Again 1 record my deep sense of disappointment that anyone should have written in such terms. I believe that- there -will be serious repercussions for Parliament from the way that journalists are carrying on today. Almost daily serious attacks are made on members of Parliament, including sometimes attacks on their private lives. Suggestions, are made that they are not acting strictly in conformity with the requirements of the Commonwealth Parliament. I believe that it is to the credit of a vast majority of parliamentarians in both the Commonwealth and State spheres that they accept their responsibilities in a proper manner.: The history of parliaments in Australia shows that only on rare occasions do parliamentarians succumb to temptation by accepting bribes or inducements of that nature. 
I believe it is wrong for journalists and authors of books to suggest that parliamentarians act dishonourably. I am concerned because owners of the mass media are going further afield, prompted by the profit motive. I suppose that it is their responsibility to endeavour to gather profits, but I do not think it should be done by sacrificing the good names of people. The same owners control the newspapers, radio stations and television stations. I am sure that it is not to the advantage of the people of Australia that the mass media are owned and controlled by individuals who are presenting such biased views. As a matter of fact, they are now going into the provincial areas, particularly of Queensland, and buying provincial newspapers. We will find that a common policy of presentation of news will be a feature of our way of life. Owners of the mass media talk of freedom of the Press. I believe that they take freedom of the Press as licence for the Press. I do not know how we are going to prevent these trends but I believe they are serious matters for the concern of Parliament. 
Another matter of concern is leaks from Party rooms, from Cabinet and from anywhere else where such individuals can obtain those leaks. They are a disturbing influence on the life of the Parliament. It is not correct that matters should be leaked from Cabinet. I am sure we all agree with that. Unfortunately, we have had some allegations of recent origin that this has happened. An ex-member of the Cabinet has said that Cabinet leaks like a sieve. This is not good for democracy, for Parliament or, most certainly, for stability of government. In the 1 960s there was a fairly famous pop group called 'The Seekers'. Today we have an infamous group which could be quite aptly termed The Leakers'. It is quite easily understood why leaks of this nature occur. I say tha! there is not the stability of government in Australia today that there should- be. If honourable senators opposite dispute my word I refer them to one of their colleagues, the honourable  Sir Gordon  Chalk who is Treasurer of Queensland. Recently he returned from overseas and said in an interview that investors from Great Britain were very concerned about the instability of government in Australia today. Of course that instability has been worsened by recent events. I repeat that those events are noi in the interest of Australia. Only today I read that the  President  of a Vic torian Branch of the Liberal Party said that  Mr McMahon  must go and that  Mr Snedden  should replace him. 
What proposition have we that will do away with that type of activity?  Senator Little  is constantly interrupting with interjections about the Australian Labor Party. There could not be any leaks from his Party because members have their party meetings in a telephone booth and it is pretty hard to get anything out of that. I repeat that the instability of government today must be of concern to all. If we do not take heed of that proposition then I believe we are asking for trouble from the Australian people. Recently in another place we saw an episode which appeared to me to have the hallmarks of a situation which should not be countenanced. I refer to the activities of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  who telephoned the Japanese Embassy to ascertain whether anything had been said by the Embassy to  Mr Whitlam  about his trip overseas. Surely it is not the responsibility of a very junior member of the Government to do anything of that nature. We then had the repercussions: The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  eventually tabled in the other place a confidential document from a foreign power. What is that going to do to relations between the Government of Japan and the Government of Australia? When confidential papers which pass between 2 government representatives are tabled in Parliament is that not going to destroy confidence between the 2 governments? 
Again  Senator Little  interrupts with some ratbag interjection. But 1 am not prepared to deviate in the slightest from what I say and that is that this type of activity is not in the interests of the people of Australia nor. indeed, can it be in the interests of fostering world peace. I believe it is entirely wrong for the Government to act as it has been acting. I believe it is entirely wrong for confidential papers which pass between the Japanese Embassy and the Australian Government to be tabled iri Parliament. Ifanybody wishes to dispute that matter then 
I ask him to examine his conscience. Would he like to see any private communications which pass between the Australian Government and the Japanese Government tabled in the Japanese Parliament? But the matter goes further than that. 
Today in Australia the Government is passing favours to some of its own supporters. People might say: 'What is it to you that members should be discharged from Cabinet'. I hope I am sufficiently fair to say that I do not believe that any member should be discarded from Cabinet if he has been doing his job correctly. Could anybody suggest to me that  Mr Killen  failed in his position as Minister for the Navy? All I have heard is that  Mr Killen  has been congratulated on the work he had done. Yet because he happened to be a friend of the ex-Prime Minister he was dumped. Then we have the other serious situation in which  Mr Bury  was reduced from Cabinet rank. This self-same  Mr Bury  was hailed as a Messiah by some members of the Government. People spoke in glowing terms of his work as Treasurer. We also have  Mr Hughes  who was the exAttorneyGeneral. What did  Mr Hughes  do wrong other than be a friend of the ex-Prime Minister? Could the Government point to any action by  Mr Hughes  which would justify his being dropped from Cabinet, except perhaps the minor exception when he waved a cricket bat around? 
Cabinet members are in the position of looking at each other and saying: 'Who is next to be dropped from Cabinet?' When people are looking over their shoulders to see who is going to be given their jobs surely that indicates to the Government that there is instability. The. change of Ministers from position to position is providing Australia with a far from balanced government. 1 criticise the Government for its actions in this direction. On Thursday night last  Senator Marriott  spoke in this chamber. At the time I would have taken exception to his remarks but I was unable to be sure of what he said. I believe that  Senator Marriott  should be asked whether he really meant what he said. I personally take umbrage at what he said. I am certainly not joyful when anybody is killed or suffers an accident or  when we lose an aeroplane or anything of that nature. Let us examine what  Senator Marriott  said. He said: 
 I hope  1  will be fair. But I say from my heart that I have a fear that a tragedy, a collision, more deaths, more wounded, a crashed aircraft, a delayed defence order brings joy to some people who are opposed to the politics df this Government, when in reality for the good of this country and for the people who serve in our defence forces they should share with us the sincere regret that something has happened that has harmed a person, equipment, the stature, the morale or any other aspect of the defence forces of this Government. 
Let me repeat the words to which I personally take exception.  Senator Marriott  said: 
But  1  say from my heart that I have a fear that a tragedy, a collision, more deaths, more wounded, a crashed aircraft, a delayed defence order brings joy to some people who are opposed to the politics of this country. 
I defy  Senator Marriott  to name any occasion when the death or injury of a person has brought joy to the heart of any honourable senator on. either side of the chamber. I know that he was speaking in very wide terms. At the same time, 1 believe that his choice of words was most unwise. I trust that if any of his colleagues tell  Senator Marriott,  who is a prospective Assistant Minister, what I have said tonight he will be big enough to get up in this chamber and withdraw those series of accusations. 
Another matter that must concern the people of Australia is the inability of the Prime Minister to make up his mind about what should be done in a crisis. We had the recent example of exception being taken to what  Mr Gorton  was writing in a newspaper. It took the Prime Minister about a week to make up his mind whether  Mr Gorton  should be discharged from the Ministry. Any member of a Cabinet who made the disclosures that  Mr Gorton  made should have been automatically dismissed from the Ministry; but it took the Prime Minister at least a week, after making telephone calls throughout Australia, to determine what' his attitude would be. The Prime Minister left a political decision regarding the proposed tour of Australia by a South African cricket team to a sporting organisation. It may be disputed whether it was a political decision, but if we are to be a member of the United Nations and believe in it and if we are to teach in our schools that the United Nations should be respected  -  I believe the vast majority of Australians think thatthe decisions of the United Nations should be observed - then why did we not observe the decision of the United Nations on the question of a tour of Australia by a South African sporting team? 
Let me raise some matters connected with the United Nations and the question of apartheid. I wish to refer to resolutions carried by the United Nations Conference on Human Rights in Teheran in 1968 and a. General Assembly resolution later the same year. The first mentioned conference, at which most of the nations of the world were represented, carried a resolution heartily endorsing the decision of the International Olympic Committee not to allow South Africa to participate in the Mexico. Olympic Games. The resolution expressed alarm that, in spite of recommendations and appeals, various international sports federations and associations, in particular the International Lawn Tennis Association, still allow South Africa to take part in their competitions. The resolution strongly recommended that these international federations and associations exclude South Africa from their membership until such time as the policy of apartheid is ended in that country. 
What I believe to be one of the most important sections of that resolution was the request to governments to take appropriate measures to influence their national sports federations and associations towards acceptance of that recommendation. Did the Australian Government observe the decision of the United Nations in this regard? No, it did not. It left the sporting organisation to make a decision. In December 1965, the 23rd General Assembly of the United Nations carried a resolution from the special political committee which declared that all states and organisations should suspend cultural, educational, sporting and other exchanges with the racist regime and other institutions and organisations in South Africa which practised apartheid. Those strong resolutions came from an organisation to which we subscribe and to which we have pledged ourselves to try to observe its decisions. 
It may be of interest to honourable senators to know that  Mr N.  H. Bowen, 
M.P.. represented the Australian Government at the 23rd General Assembly conference and that  Mr Andrew  Peacock, M.P. was also present at the conference. My information is that  Mr N.  H. Bowen abstained from casting a vote, which was his right under the charter of. the United Nations. But a decision having been carried and he having been there to offer at least opposition - which he did not offer  -  I believe it was the bounden duty of the Government of Australia to observe the decision of the United Nations and give the lead to Australia that it should have done. 
The Prime Minister, trenchantly criticised  Mr Whitlam  for suggesting that there would be 1.00,000 people or more unemployed in a very short space of time. He said that  Mr Whitlam  was a Jeremiah of gloom. But a few days later the Prime Minister had to come out and admit that there would be 100,000 people unemployed in the near future. Although the Budget has not yet been passed by the Parliament the Prime Minister has had to say that if the unemployment situation gets worse the Government will have to act to correct it. The Government will in fact have to correct a situation caused by its own maladministration.. Those honourable senators who dispute that our difficulties are due to the Government's maladministration should examine last year's Budget. 
Government supporters are prone to criticise the 6 per cent wage increase awarded by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Do they know that by offering such criticism they are in effect saying that they have no confidence in the Arbitration Commission? That is precisely what they are saying. Do the Government supporters know that the people of Australia respect the decisions of any judicial body and that they are saying to the Government: 'Why is the Government now criticising that judicial decision when, it had every opportunity to put its views before the judicial body and it exercised its right to do so'? The Government did in fact exercise its right and put submissions before the Arbitration Commission and the Arbitration Commission took those submissions into consideration. Notwithstanding that, the Commission awarded a 6 per cent across the board increase in wages and salaries. 
What caused the Commission to make such a decision? A situation of rising prices throughout Australia forced the Commission to give a 6 per cent increase to the workers of Australia. Unless this Government - I am fearful that it will - interferes with the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission I would say that an even more substantial increase will be awarded at the end of this year when the annual review takes place. Of course, the increase has to be more because the Commission must take into consideration the way that prices have risen, and it is its responsibility to ensure that the workers in some way keep up with this higher cost of living. But we hear Government supporters criticising the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission for awarding a 6 per cent increase.  Senator Davidson  said that in his opinion the decision was wrong. On what basis does he say that the decision was wrong? Has he analysed all the evidence that was presented to the Commission? Has he done anything at all to satisfy himself or any other supporter of the Government that the decision was unfair or unjust? Would he or any other supporter of the Government put their thoughts ahead of those of the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission? Who would be the most capable person of determining what wage increase should - be awarded - a supporter of the Government or the  President  and his colleagues of the Arbitration Commission who sat and heard all the evidence in the case? It is just stupidity to talk about the Commission awarding the 6 per cent increase in wages. lt could do nothing else but award that increase in order to try to compensate me worker for the increased cost of living ;hat he was called upon to meet. 
This Budget does very little to correct the inconsistencies that are apparent. It is a Budget of inconsistencies. It is a Budget of indecision. It is a Budget that will increase the incidence of inflation. Do not accept my word for that,  Mr President.  Almost every government supporter who has spoken in this debate has criticised the Budget in some way. They say: 'Yes, we support the Budget but - ' and then come the criticisms. Almost every supporter of the Government who has spoken in this debate has criticised some section of the 
Budget. Whether this has been done for some political advantage they can gain in their own State, the fact remains that they have criticised the Budget. If honourable senators look at Hansard they will see that that is so. Let us have a look at what one honourable senator on the Government side said about the Budget. At page  482  of Hansard he said: 
Referring to the Budget generally, I do not believe that there has been nearly as much criticism of this Budget as there usually is. Throughout Australia it seems to have had  a  reasonably good reception. 

 Senator Greenwood nods in agreement. What more criticism does he want? The trade unions have condemned the Budget; employers' organisations have condemned the Budget; and, what is more, the Associated Chambers of Commerce has made remarks about it. What did it have to say? A newspaper article I have here reports in the following terms: 
The Associated Chambers of Commerce of Australia yesterday warned of a severe credit squeeze later this financial year: 
The chambers said this would be caused by an excessively large Budget surplus combined with maintenance of restrictive monetary policies foreshadowed by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden). 
The Chambers of Commerce issued  a  special statement through their Canberra secretariat. 
They said: 'The Treasury has shown an undue preoccupation with excess liquidity In ' the economy as a result of capital inflow, the high level of savings bank deposits and the flow-back of tax refunds. 
As a consequence, the Government has been persuaded to budget for  a  domestic surplus of S630 million knowing that this will result in  a  substantial withdrawal of liquidity from the economy and act as a strong restraining factor on expenditure by the private sector. 
Under such conditions, the impact of monetary restraints will fall hardest on the small and medium sized businesses which do not have the capacity to borrow overseas.  'While the Treasurer is to be commended for his efforts to reduce Government spending, it is questionable whether the pruning of administrative expenditure will be as 'ruthless' as promised, especially when departmental running costs are expected to increase by 15 per cent.  .'Admittedly, a review of the existing functions and activities of government departments will be undertaken with a view to making economies, but this would be much more effective if it were an independent inquiry instead of an internal investigation as at present planned.' 
The statement said: 'In the present economic climate and in looking at the immediate prospects ahead, the Budget will be judged as unnecessarily severe and its strategy wrongly, oriented.' 
Does the Government say that that is not a criticism of the Budget from its own friends? It was also criticised by the trade unions, Surely no supporter of the Government would dispute that the trade unions are an important part of the society of Australia. If anyone disputes that, let him get to his feet and say that the trade unions are not an important segment of the community. But when I refer to criticisms by the trade union movement some Government supporters are inclined to ridicule such a statement. There has been criticism. It is wrong to say that there has not been criticism. It has been levelled in several directions. I have always believed that a Government should carry out its promises to the people. An article in today's 'Courier-Mail' reads: 
The key promises of the Gorton Government - the establishment of a national health insurance 'commission and a national film and television school - have been shelved. 
Who said that they have been shelved? It was none other than the Minister for Health,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. The article continues: 
The Health Minister  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  announced yesterday that the decision to set up the health insurance commission was under consideration'. 
He made this statement notwithstanding the fact that it had been promised by a previous Prime Minister. Is this the way we are to treat the people of Australia? Are we to give a promise and then some 18 months later say that it is under consideration? That article is well worth reading. 
I spoke earlier about the cricket tour. Again honourable senators might feel that I am prejudiced because of what I said, but let us see what the  President  of Victoria's largest Liberal branch said last night. Another newspaper article reports this gentleman as saying:  . . that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  should have given decisive leadership' over the Springbok cricket tour.  Mr C.  H. Francis, QC, a Melbourne barrister and Stonnington Liberal branch  president,  said: '1 don't think important political decisions involving Australia's international reputation should be left to a cricket board.' 
What does the Liberal Party make  of  criticism of that nature when  it  comes from  one of  its  own  branch presidents? Does  it  accept the criticism? If  it  does not accept the criticism then it should not criticise  me  for what I have urged regarding United Nations decisions. I remind honourable senators opposite that the  President of a  Liberal Party branch in Victoria was saying, in slightly different words, what I have said tonight and what the United Nations has said. 
Now we have young  Senator Webster  interjecting. Like  Senator Marriott,  I do not wish to be provocative, so I shall not reply to that interjection. Perhaps I could say to honourable senators opposite that the Government will not need any more of its supporters to be provocative while it has  Senator Marriott.  I repeat that I shall not reply to  Senator Webster's  interjection, although I could do so. Early in the Budget Speech the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  said:  . . it is in these 2 years that cost and price inflation has gathered pace. . . . Undoubtedly,  a  significant part of the impetus has come from wage increases in various forms. These increases have reflected the level of demand and a willingness on the part of employers, under pressure, to pay more for labour. 
Was the Government under pressure when it awarded wage and salary increases to members of organisations, associations or trade unions in its employ? Has it not granted substantial increases to these classes of people since the last Budget? I can inform the Senate of one group of employees who are working for the Government who have a 37 hour week, who are paid overtime after 32 hours a week and who can earn as much as $200  a  week. Good luck to the workers. But let us not have the Government complaining about trade unions putting pressure on employers. I know for a positive fact that no pressure was put on the Government when the increased figure  to  which I have referred was arrived at during a conference between representatives of the Government and the unions. 
I am  fair.. I  am so  fair that  I  would  not  stand up in this Senate,  as  Senator  Webster did, and say  that  I  would be quite happy to be a hangman, that I would be quite happy to hang a fellow citizen. I would not do a thing like that. However, if  Senator Webster  wants to do that and that is his idea of fairness; it is not mine. 
I shall stick to the subject. The paragraph in the Budget continued: 
Apparently it has been possible to pass on increased costs, wholly or partly, in higher  prices.  lt is probably more ' helpful to think of an interacting set of conditions than to look for a single dominating cause. But it is important to appreciate that a cost-price sequence can become a self.activating force so that cost increases lead to price increases and these to further cost increases. 
Whose responsibility is it to look after these factors? Surely the Government should have some policy on price fixation, but it has taken no action in that regard. Yet it complains about the situation and justifies some of its actions and its own neglect. Let us consider what was said in the Budget about the defence vole. This is an amazing part of the Budget Speech. The Treasurer said: 
The Defence Vole proposed is $I,252.-Jm. This is S I 1 7m, or 10.3 per cent, more than last year. 
Anyone reading that would think that the money available for Australia's defence requirements would be increased by 10.3 per cent, but if we read a little further we find that such is not the case. The Treasurer continued: 
Some ?66m of the increase is for pay and salaries. New rates recommended by the Kerr Committee for other ranks will apply as from the beginning of the next pay period, and actual payment will be made as soon as regulations are promulgated. The Minister for Defence will make a statement on the new pay structure. 
The final sentence in that section of the Budget Speech states: 
There will be a small increase in expenditure on defence aid programmes. 
Notwithstanding the great build-up given to this subject when we are told that there is to be a 10.3 per cent increase in defence spending, we' find when we analyse the situation that there' is to be a small increase in expenditure on defence aid programmes. 1 come now to child endowment. We are told in the Budget Speech that the Government will introduce legislation to increase child endowment by 50c a week for each child under the age of 16 years in excess of  2  in a family. Why should the increase be restricted to children in excess of  2  in a family? Are families with 1 or  2  children not required to meet the high costs of living that are with us today? Why should they be penalised by having their child endowment restricted while others are receiving an increase? I do not think the Government could have been serious when, having said that the first child should receive endowment, it says at this late stage that only families with more than  2  children shall receive an increased rate of child endowment. 
I repeat that it was a Liberal government which decided that the first child should receive child endowment. I have said that already; so it is of no use for the honourable senator to interject. I gave credit for what the Government has done. I am saying now that the Government has now departed from its original decision. I repeat that this makes the Budget a Budget of inconsistencies. In the section on assistance to industry the Treasurer said: 
The Government has given particular consideration to the position of those farmers substantially dependent on their income from wool. 
That is a very wide statement. I expect that we will be given some indication of what it means when the legislation comes before the Senate, but at this stage I suggest that there is a wide area which must be investigated. A means test should be associated with this scheme. I believe that people who are in urgent need of assistance should be given more than is proposed in this Budget. On the other hand, those wo do not require additional finance should not receive the assistance proposed. . 
It is all very well for Government supporters to talk about the wool subsidy scheme, but  1  suggest to them that there are people other than wool growers living in the depressed country areas of Queensland. What will other people in the outback areas of Queensland receive from this subsidy? It might be said that the wool ' growers will now be able to pay their bills. Honourable senators opposite know as well, as I do that in a substantial . number of  cases the wool growers are in so much financial stress that the banks and other 
Institutions will take the money that the wool growers receive as assistance to pay off some of the debts which have accrued over the years. Practically none of that money will come into the country towns. Yet some means could have been found to achieve that situation. The Government has been asked about this on several occasions, but always we have heard the stereotype reply that this matter would be considered at Budget time. If it has been considered, it has been forgotten very quickly. There is a positive way to assist the little people, the shopkeepers and the workers in these areas, lt can be done by giving a better zone allowance for taxation purposes. The Government said that it would look at that matter. If it did then it looked away mighty quickly because nothing has been done notwithstanding the promises that have been made that these zone allowances would be reviewed from time to time. 
On page 10 of the Budget Speech the Treasurer said: 
The Government has decided that producers of wool should be given additional assistance this year, and will introduce a 1-year scheme of deficiency payments in respect of the 1971-72 wool clip. Deficiency payments will be a percentage of market realisation, calculated from ' time to time so as to ensure that, on average, growers receive for shorn wool - other than specified inferior types accounting for about 10 per cent of shorn wool - a return corresponding to a price for the whole clip of 36c a pound greasy. 
In short, it is a guaranteed price of 36c a lb. I put quite seriously to the Government: Could this decision affect the sale of wool at the respective wool sales? I cannot get out of my mind the idea that there is some collusion on the part of overseas buyers. I believe that there can be collusion by them. If it appears that the wool grower is going to get 36c a lb, would not overseas buyers be tempted to put themselves into a favourable position by saying that they will offer no more than 30c a lb, shall we say? The wool grower will not lose because the Commonwealth Government will have to foot the bill. I put quite seriously to the Government that it could have -made that decision. I repeat too that .1 believe some criticism can be levelled at the Government for the way this assistance was canvassed. It was reported and never denied that this matter was discussed at Cabinet level and that 
Cabinet could not agree. It was then revealed that there were private talks between, the Prime Minister and the Dep-uty Prime Minister,, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and that that figure of 36c was agreed upon at those private talks and taken back to Cabinet for confirmation. If that story is correct - I emphasise the word 'if - then I do not believe that that is the way that the Government of Australia, should be run. I believe it is entirely wrong for 2 people to be able to get away on their own, determine something which Cabinet has not been able to determine and then to take it back to Cabinet and obtain almost complete agreement on it. 
No, I had not overlooked the Australian Wool Commission. The way that the Commission is spending so much money on wool and stockpiling wool must be a matter of .concern for the Government. I had not overlooked the Commission at all. I believe the Commission will be faced with the same 1 proposition; if wool ' is passed in and the Commission buys it at 30c a lb because it does not believe a fair price is offered, the Government still will be up for that 30c and the deficiency payment of 6c. In addition, the private buyer can then negotiate with the Commission. 1 submit with re"spect that I do not think a private buyer will pay 36c a lb - nowhere near it. I think the honourable senator will agree that this will provide an avenue for collusion among foreign buyers on the wool market. 1 submit that quite seriously to the Government  although it may be too late to do anything about it now. 
I turn now to personal income tax. This is referred to at page 15 of the Budget Speech! Again, do we find an inconsistency? Twelve months ago the Government said that the incidence of taxation on the people of Australia was too high, particu- - larly those in the middle income bracket. The Government, in its wisdom, granted a . tax concession right across the board. Now it has increased taxation again. Surely this is a denial of a set of conditions in a , period of 12 months. Surely the Government .cannot ask the people of Australia to have confidence in it when it acts in such a topsy turvey way. Within a matter of 12 months it says that the incidence of taxation is too high and will reduce it and then increases it again. 
That is true but 1 am not arguing on that principle at present. I am referring to the complete inconsistencies. Twelve months ago the Government said that taxation was too high and it reduced it. Then 12 months later up goes the taxation again. Surely this does not indicate stability on the part of the Government. I now refer to the concluding remarks made by the Treasurer in his Budget Speech. He said: 
I might mention, in this budget context, that the Government is considering what might be done by way of strengthening the arbitration system and, in particular, bringing more to the forefront the economic consequences of decisions which are taken within that system. When these studies have been completed, we will consider whether further measures should be taken to cope with the problem of excessive cost and price increases. 
I must refer to the escalating level of industrial unrest. Working days lost through industrial disputes in the first five months of 1971 topped the high rate of last year by nearly 25 per cent. 
I want to deal first with that second aspect because what the Treasurer said is a distortion of the real facts in the industrial world. The Government knows that during that 5 months period there were, prolonged stoppages in New South Wales not over wages but over working conditions. Could any Government supporter stand in his place and say it is just that a worker injured on the job, particularly in the building industry, should have a reduced earning capacity while he is on workers' compensation? If he does then again he denies the decision of the New South Wales Industrial Commission which has decided that an injured worker shall be paid his usual weekly wage when he is in receipt of workers' compensation. 
The situation is that for its own political purposes the Government has stressed a point of time which it knows is unrealistic. If that is not a fallacy, if that is not mischievous, if that is not - in the words of one of its Ministers - a mean, contemptible thing to do, then I have yet to see it. Why does the Government not be honest about these things? It is always trying to pick on the trade unions and the workers of this country. They have done more for Australia than a lot of us here today - and I do not exclude myself. Yet throughout the whole of this Budget is the fact that the Government is going to try to do something to the workers. It is going to try to interfere with the arbitration system. I shall read that paragraph again. The Treasurer said: 
I might mention, in this budget context, that the Government is considering what might be done by way of strengthening the arbitration system and, in particular, bringing more to the forefront the economic consequences of decisions which are taken within that system. When these studies have been completed, we will consider whether further measures should be taken to cope with the problem of excessive cost and price increases. 
It is in the Government's hands to rectify these problems by introducing legislation, for example, to stop the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd increasing by an outrageous amount the prices that it charges for its steel. But the Government will not do that. It will try to hide behind the back door and try to ringbark the arbitration system. It is apparent from the Budget Speech that that is what the Government proposes to do. In the past other governments have tried to do this very thing and the people have revolted. On this occasion they will revolt again. I support the amendment moved by  Senator Murphy. 
 I support the proposition submitted by  Senator Cant  and which was supported by  Senator Willesee.  I do so because of the time limit that will be imposed if the proposition is passed by the Senate. I believe the time is completely inadequate. I draw the attention of honourable senators to an episode that happened in this chamber only yesterday. Quite a number of us were impressed with what  Senator Rae  said. I have counted the approximate number of words he used in a period of 1 1 minutes and they total fewer than 1,700. If honourable senators believe, as I believe, that  Senator Rae  is a fluent  speaker  - he is not particularly fast and he most certainly is not slow - and if he could utter only 1,700 words in 11 minutes, what possible hope would anyone, even  Senator Rae,  have of propounding his argument when introducing a subject in a period of 20 minutes? 
I suggest.,  Mr Acting Deputy Chairman,  that it would be a sheer impossibility for anyone to introduce a contentious matter in 20 minutes and do justice to it. If honourable senators care to check the record they will find that  Senator Rae  is reported at page 740 of yesterday's Hansard, when he spoke in the Budget debate, as having commenced speaking at 5.10 p.m. and that he was followed by  Senator Brown  who commenced his address at 5.21 p.m.  Senator Rae  had approximately 10 or 11 minutes - probably 10 minutes - and he was able to introduce only a subject which was important to him; but he could not complete his arguments. With respect, how then could anyone speak adequately on a question such as that referred to tonight, the Moratorium? How could anyone introduce a subject such as the attitude of the trade union movement, which is dear to my heart, should the Government endeavour to interfere with the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and the Opposition wanted to raise this as a matter of urgency? With respect, no-one could possibly do justice to a subject such as that in 20 minutes. After all is said and done, 30 minutes is not a particularly long time but an honourable senator could do reasonable justice to a subject he wanted to introduce if he were allowed 30 minutes. 
In my opinion the proposition before us for a period of 20 minutes only would restrict proper debate. No-one can convince me that a matter of consequence can be introduced and dealt with by an individual in a period of 20 minutes. It is true that on some occasions nothing like half an hour would be required. The mover of a motion may be content to address the Senate for 15 minutes. He may not think it particularly important that he continue for 30 minutes, as is referred to in the amendment, but I believe he should have the right to develop his argument if he believes it is of sufficient importance. 
Consequently I believe, apart from other considerations, that it is most unfair for a person introducing a matter of urgency to be restricted to 20 minutes. Those honourable senators present now who heard  Senator Rae  speak yesterday for 10 minutes know that he could not propound all the arguments he wanted to advance in that limited time. If he had had 20 minutes he could not have done justice to his argument for the simple reason that the topic he was referring to in the debate yesterday was of great significance. He was drawing attention to water and air pollution. He could not possibly have given adequate attention to his contribution to the debate in the 10 minutes at his disposal and, with respect, I suggest he would not have been able to do it in 20 minutes. Honourable senators might say that if a  speaker  cannot do it in 20 minutes he cannot do it in 30 minutes. I disagree. I think he would have been able to deal with the subject more adequately if given more time. I was most interested to hear him speak on that subject and I think it would have been to the advantage of the Senate if  Senator Rae  had been able to advance the arguments that he desired to put forward by being allowed 30 minutes instead of being limited to 10 minutes. I believe that such a limitation is quite wrong and is contrary to the best management of the Senate.  I  support the amendment proposed by  Senator Cant. 
Is the Minister for Civil Aviation yet in a position to indicate whether the Trans-Australia Airlines airport terminal at Eagle Farm, Brisbane, which was recently destroyed by fire, is to be replaced by a long overdue modern airport terminal? 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. Is it a fact that insurance assessors who have examined the damage caused by Commonwealth Police last Thursday at Union House at the University of Melbourne have said that 52 doors had been damaged and 5 $400 solar glass windows had been smashed? Does the Minister still consider appropriate his reported description of the raid in the Melbourne 'Age' of 1st October 1971 as 'a discreet and restrained attempt to effect arrests'? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. As would be appreciated, the costs associated with sewerage installation to a private home impose a financial strain when pensioners are required to make the necessary arrangements for the installation. Would the Minister consider making a special payment to age pensioners who have to meet such a requirement by the local authority concerned? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is Ansett Airlines of Australia paid for mail carried in its aircraft; if so, what payments are made when flight schedules are altered so as to provide less frequent services. 
Is Ansett Airlines of Australia paid the same fee for the carriage of mail to and from Dirranbandi. Queensland, now, as it was paid before the flight schedules were re-arranged. 
Can the Minister for Civil Aviation announce any firm proposals for the rebuilding of the TransAustralia Airlines terminal at Brisbane airport which was destroyed recently by fire? 
 I direct a question to the Minister for Health. Has the Victorias Hospital Benefits Association committed contributors' funds to the newly formed Voluntary Health Insurance Association of Australia? Is this new association a political organisation whose aim is to wage a political campaign against the introduction of a government-sponsored national health scheme? What is the general position regarding the right of health funds to commit contributors' moneys to political organisations? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am not aware of the answer to the first part of the question, although I did read in the newspapers a reference to this matter. I asked that certain views be put to me for study, but they have not been put to me. 1 would prefer the balance of the question to go on notice. Here again I am being asked to comment on policy matters which involve the administration of various funds, the powers that they may have to administer their affairs and the powers that the Commonwealth may have to oversee them. I would like to give a considered reply to that. I have not been informed about the circumstances to which the honourable senator alluded in the first part of this question. 
At the outset I express on behalf of the Opposition the keen disappointment we feel at the Government's having introduced legislation in this way. Over many years the practice has been for the Government to introduce legislation into this chamber, for the debate to be adjourned and for the debate to be resumed about one week later. On this occasion the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  who represents in this place the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  introduced the legislation yesterday and the debate is being resumed to-day. This is most unfair to the Opposition because we expected the practice which has been followed over the years to have been followed on this occasion, thus affording time for us to prepare our remarks on the legislation. The Opposition rejects completely the reason advanced by the Government that a computer system is to operate in relation to this legislation. If that be so, we are becoming servants of a computer and it is incorrect for any government to ask members of Parliament to be subject to the wishes of a computer programmer. 
We shall proceed to debate the legislation but we make it clear that the Government is not to take our action on this occasion as a precedent because the ready co-operation which we have extended in the past may not be extended in the future. 1 do not think anyone on the Government side can accuse the Opposition of frustrating the Government's attempts to get urgent legislation through the Senate. When legislation has been required urgently the Opposition has proved conclusively time out of number its desire to cooperate to the fullest possible extent, but on this occasion we reject the fact that a computer may be waiting to deal with aspects of the legislation as an urgent reason for bringing on the debate to-day. 
Having said that, I now indicate that although the Opposition does not oppose the principle of the Bill it believes that the Bill has serious deficiencies. On behalf of the Opposition I move the following amendment to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time: 
At end of motion add -  but the Senate is of the opinion that a single national marketing authority should be established which will be the sole authority responsible for the export marketing of Australian apples and pears and which will administer, in conjunction with the Commonwealth, a well formulated apple and pear stabilisation scheme'. 
We believe that our proposal is the way in which to attack the problems facing the industry today. The legislation seeks to implement a stabilisation scheme to support the returns of apple and pear growers for a period of 5 years. As I have indicated, we do not oppose that principle. What we do oppose is the way in which the Government intends to implement the scheme. We believe that a single marketing authority is the appropriate authority to implement a stabilisation scheme. 
Another important aspect of this legislation which should not be ignored is that it has socialistic characteristics although the Government opposes Socialism so bitterly. Between elections the Government attacks members of the Australian Labor Party on Socialism and what we believe in but then, by a surreptitious move, it introduces legislation of a socialistic nature. In the last sessional period the Shepparton Preserving Company was in financial difficulties and the Government came to its assistance - the Opposition approved the legislation - by providing money to enable the company to continue operations. That was good but, notwithstanding what honourable senators on the Government side might say, it tends towards Socialism, and the Government took its action despite its statements to all and sundry that it opposes Socialism. 
The finances of this country are getting into a most difficult situation. Let me illustrate what I mean by that statement. Early last year many people in the western area of Queensland made representations to the Commonwealth Government for a grant of S10m to assist them to overcome the difficulties they were experiencing as a result of successive droughts and depressed wool prices. The Commonwealth Government, for reasons known only to itself, rejected those representations. The Queensland Government, however, in its budget introduced into the State House last week, made provision for a grant of $10m to the very people whose representations had been rejected by the Commonwealth Government. Now the Queensland Government has said: 'As a result of the allocation of this money to those whose representations were rejected by the Commonwealth Government, we now propose to become a mendicant State'. Surely primary industry is so important to Australia that a higher degree of consideration should be given to matters affecting adversely that section of the community. Although people in the area between Charleville and Longreach were living in, to use the words of the 
Premier of Queensland, a disaster area, the Commonwealth Government said to them: 'We cannot give you the $ 1Om you seek'. The State Government gave the Si Om and then applied to the Commonwealth Government to become a mendicant State. Surely this is an illustration of how the finances of the country are being  maladministered. 
I suggest that it is hypocrisy for the Government to attempt, by back door methods, to introduce legislation which on the hustings and between elections its members so vehemently criticise. We agree with the propositions contained in the legislation, but we are accused of being terrible people. We are accused by the Government of being people whose actions are designed to ruin the Australian economy. It is an inescapable fact that the Government is surreptitiously introducing this legislation while at the same time condemning its purpose. What the legislation fails to do on this occasion is to indicate how it will assist the promotion of the industry. The legislation fails to indicate how it will help to develop marketing arrangements for the apple and pear industry. Surely that is what is required. This legislation will achieve nothing of that nature. It means a change on the Apple and Pear Board from one person nominated by the Minister to 2 persons with no authority for the 2 persons responsible to implement the legislation. As a matter of fact, the legislation brings one to the point of saying: 'It does not matter whether you are eaten by an alligator or a crocodile'. That is the way in which people in the apple and pear industry will approach the legislation. They want positive action by the Government. This legislation will not give the positive action that is required by the people in Tasmania. 
Why is there a single authority in sections of legislation dealing with some of the more outstanding and progressive rural industries? Has the single authority failed in the sugar industry or in the beef industry? These authorities are remarkable examples of how a single authority can achieve the desired results of improving the lot of the people in an industry. There is no attempt to do that in this legislation. I believe that the Minister, in his second reading speech on the Apple and Pear 
Organisation Bill, indicated 2 things. Referring to the proposed changes he said: 
These changes were made in the light of tha Government's recognition of the need to have the closest liaison between the Government and the board in view of the operation of the particular Government backed stabilisation or other scheme. 
How will this legislation achieve that? It will do nothing at all, with the exception of discarding one person on the Board, as is the position under the present legislation, and substituting 2 people in his place. It will not give the close liaison that the Government expects that it will. It will not give the close liaison that would have resulted if a single national marketing authority had been set up. The alteration brought about by this legislation means nothing. The 2 members of the Board will not have the right to negotiate agreements with overseas countries or to negotiate freight rates or anything of that nature. A single national marketing authority would have those powers. At present single authorities in other industries have that power. Another portion of the Minister's second reading speech on the same Bill states: 
The net effect of the proposed new arrangements is that, in lieu of the present single member of the Board who is both representative of the Commonwealth Government and board chairman, there shall be 2 members, one of whom is the representative of the Commonwealth Government but who is not chairman, and the other of whom is a member and chairman of the board but is not the representative of the Commonwealth Government. Both appointments will be made directly by the Minister. 
One would have to be a child of nature if one believed that there were not conflicts in that statement. Let me repeat that section of the Minister's speech. He stated:  . . and the other of whom is a member and chairman of the Board but is not the representative of the Commonwealth Government. Both appointments will be made directly by the Minister. 
Does the Government suggest that the Minister will have no influence over those 2 members and that those 2 members, notwithstanding anything they believe to be the case, will report io the Minister in a way that does not accord with his belief? One would have to be a child of nature to believe that appointees of the Minister would do those things. We believe that the principle contained in the legislation may be desirable. However, the legislation falls far short of what is required by the people  in this very important section of primary industry. Consequently we have no desire to delay the passage of the Bills, but we show our disapproval of the legislation not having gone nearly as far as it should by moving the amendment that I moved. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! Is the amendment seconded? 
We have no desire to raise objection to the wording of clause  6  but  I  feel we should direct attention to sub-clause 3 because we may run into some difficulty later with the Regulations and Ordinances Committee.  I  may be wrong in that belief and the Minister may be able to correct me. Sub-clause 3 is in these terms: (3.) In paragraph (b) of the last preceding sub-section, 'accountable cost' in relation to fruit referred to in paragraph (a) of that sub-section means any cost, charge or expense (not being provisional export duty or export duty) that, in the opinion of the Minister, was necessarily incurred in respect of the fruit. . . . 
I  direct attention to the words 'in the opinion of the Minister'. It appears to me that the Minister is restricted by the terms of that sub-clause to take into account accountable cost. If it is handled by way of regulation, there may be objection to the Minister, not the Parliament, having determined that.  I  raise that matter not for the purpose of being quarrelsome, but in view of the decisions of this Senate in the past  I  felt  I  should raise the matter for consideration. 
-At this stage when we are considering the Apple and Pear Stabilisation Bill 1 think it is appropriate to say that the problem was not created in the Garden of Eden by eating the apple. It was created on the ground by the pair. But I suggest that this is a most important Bill. As the Minister has indicated it will have its growing pains and will have to be watched very carefully. I say with respect to the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  that the Government appears to be a little hesitant about some of the provisions of the Bill. If you will pardon me,  Mr Temporary Chairman.  I shall read a part of the Minister's second reading speech. I do not wish to engage in a debate more suited to the second reading of the Bill. However, my motion flows from what the Minister said in his second rending speech. He stated: 
It has been estimated that the scheme is likely to cost the Commonwealth of the order of $10m over the 5 years of its life and this gives some idea of the unfortunate position in which this industry finds itself. Because of this unfortunate position it is true that this stabilisation scheme and the likelihood of the subvention by the Commonwealth under the scheme of this $I0m over 5 years will not provide solutions lo all the industry's problems. However, it is intended that the scheme will give a considerable measure of stability to  the  industry to assist it to examine its other problems and to take steps to meet them. 
I emphasise 2 points in that passage. The first point 1 emphasise is that this is a costly proposition. Over 5 years $10m may not sound a lot of money to some people, but to the people of the Commonwealth SI Om is a substantial amount of money. Consequently it is our responsibility to see that the money will be spent to the best possible advantage. The second point I emphasise is that this can be regarded as pilot legislation because the Minister has said that $I0m over 5 years will not provide a solution to all the problems of the industry. It is in this direction that we move an amendment to be added to clause 7. On behalf of the Australian Labor Party I move: 
That the clause be postponed. 
As an instruction to the Government: 
That specific provision should be made in the clause that the regulations, in fixing the support price for a season, shall make such increase or decrease, if any, in the amount as is considered appropriate by reason of increases or decreases in prices, wages or rates of charges (including rates of interest) payable in connection wilh (a) the carrying on of operations wholly or partly for the purposes of the production of apples and pears, and (b) the transport, handling or storage of apples and pears 
If honourable senators look at the legislation as it stands they will see that it does not cater for some of the regulations which we seek by way of this amendment. Clause 7 suggests when the support price will be determined. But we believe that many other matters should be taken into consideration in addition to the brief statement which has been outlined. I am convinced that the Government recognises the validity of such arguments. I shall refer to the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry which is to be found at page 1947 of the debate which took place on 6th October 1971 in another place. The Minister stated: 
The actual field of difference between the Opposition and the Government on this issue is not very wide. In fact it had been my intention to try  to  include a clause in this part of the Bill in an endeavour to give to the Minister for Primary Industry the responsibility to make the determination in accordance with a listed series of additional cash costs. . . . 
I shall not read any more, not because there is anything to hide but because I think the Minister indicated in his approach to the issue that there was not a great deal of difference between the Government and the Opposition. Consequently, we believe that the motion will strengthen the legislation. It most certainly will not have a detrimental effect on any of the provisions contained in the legislation but, on the contrary, will improve the legislation. Therefore I believe that, even at this late hour, the Government should accept the motion that we propose in respect of clause 7. 
I would not have responded  10  the Minister's remarks except for one comment that he made early in his remarks. If 1 have misinterpreted what he said, I apologise; but I do not think I have. I think he said that if the Opposition holds up this legislation it will affect the people within the industry, or words to that effect. I take umbrage al that. I do so for the very good reason that it is the Government's responsibility if it has set. a date for the commencement of the operation of the Bill; it is not the responsibility of the Opposition. It is our responsibility to analyse the legislation in order to see that the best possible legislation is introduced. For the Minister then to charge us with holding up the legislation because we are examining its provisions is. I think, most unfair. I believe that he should withdraw that remark. 

 Senator Little dwells on the fact that we have referred to those partly engaged in the industry. Looking at the provision as it stands at the present time, I do not know how anybody who is partly engaged in the industry will be fitted in. It is a well established fact that the industry is in a parlous position and it is quite conceivable that some of those who are engaged in the industry are doing part time work. Surely they should be assisted. I suggest with respect that if the Government does not provide for them it is ignoring them. I will not labour the point, but we believe that the motion that has been moved would strengthen the legislation and be to the advantage of all concerned with the industry. 
The Opposition proposes the amendment that has been distributed. I move: 
Page 7. clause II, after sub-clause (2.), insert the following sub-clause: (2a.) The rate of a stabilisation payment provided for in the preceding sub-section, especially the figure of 4.400,000, will be reviewed each year prior to the establishment of the support price for that season.'. 
The purpose of the amendment is that a review be conducted after a year and prior to the establishment of the support price. On innumerable occasions we have heard in the Senate of the effect, of cost pressures on the rural section of the economy. We accept that. There will be further pressures and the clause asit stands at present will do nothing about them. The amendment we have proposed would not affect the provisions of the legislation. It would not interfere with the estimate of $10m referred to by the Minister. We believe that a review conducted in the manner we suggest would be a fair arrangement. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What was the quantity and value of Queensland production of (a) gold, (b) copper, (c) lead, (d) zinc, (e) tin, (f) bauxite, (g) manganese, (h) limestone, (i) monazite, (j) coal, (k) silver and (1) rutile for the 12 months ended 31st July 1971. 
What quantities and values of these minerals were exported for the 12 months ended 31st July 1971. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. Has the Minister observed thai, according to the census figures released recently, the population of the Australian Capital Territory is increasing more than 4 times faster than that of Australia? Does he realise that if this population trend continues there will be before very long more people in the Australian Capital Territory than in, for instance, Tasmania? In view of the fact that Canberra produces little more than government, will the Minister give consideration to arresting this unenviable growth rate and thus assist decentralisation? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Are charges by a medical practitioner for a second prescription, provided for repeat issues of medicine, levied on the basis of$1 for a nonmember of a medical benefits fund and $2.50 for a member of such a fund; if so, will the Minister have this anomalous situation rectified. 
I am not aware of any general practice in the medical profession of charging differential fees for insured and non-insured patients for similar services. Commonwealth and fund benefits for insured patients are of course related to the most common fee for a particular service in each State. ft is possible for the circumstances connected with consultations at which repeat prescriptions arc provided to vary and any charge made by the doctor could vary accordingly. 
To qualify for payment of Commonwealth benefit, however, there must be a physical attendance on the patient by the doctor. Telephone or mail requests for repeat prescriptions would accordingly not qualify for payment of benefit even though a charge was made by the doctor. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the discontent expressed by people in the rural areas of Australia - victims of the rural depression - because  Sir William  Gunn is selling off another slice of Australia to overseas financial combines? Can the Minister indicate whether he and the Government view with alarm this attempt by  Sir William  Gunn? Can the Minister also indicate whether the Australian land sought to be sold by  Sir William  Gunn will be made available for purchase by the Australian people? 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Have alterations toflight schedules of Ansett Airlines of Australia to Dirranbandi, Queensland, reduced the service to that town, and has a smaller aircraft replaced the Fokker Friendship service? 
Is the town now without a weekend air service as a result of the altered flight schedules, and is an inadequate mail service now being provided? 
Did the Department of Civil Aviation approve the altered flight schedules? 
Will the Minister take up with Ansett Airlines of Australia the unsatisfactory aspects of air services to Dirranbandi? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Has there been any recent decision to alter the arrangements for surface mail to be carried interslate by other than the respective State Railway Commissioners; if so. what are the details of the new arrangements. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. In answer to question No. 1471 asked by me yesterday of the Minister representing the Postmaster-General in this place, the Minister stated that surface mail was to be carried for a trial period by departmental transport for some areas and passenger bus services for other areas. Can the Minister indicate the name of the principal passenger bus service company which is to be used? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Works in his dual capacity as the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service and the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. Has the Minister seen a statement by the Director of the Queensland Employers Federation in which he advised parents of some school leavers, to keep their children at school for some months into 1972? Irrespective of the Minister's knowledge of the statement, I ask whether he agrees that projections indicate that unemployment will rise substantially over the next 6 months and that many ordinary school leavers will be unable to obtain work. Does he think that keeping school leavers at school in order to keep them off the labour market is a practice that should be encouraged? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether he has learned of the following statement of the Acting Prime Minister,  Mr  i.  D. Anthony, made at a public meeting at Southport last weekend: 
The Federal Government would not have survived the Gorton-McMahon leadership crisis had it not been for the steadying influence of the Country. Party. 
Was the Government in such difficulties that it was close to falling in the days to which the Acting Prime Minister referred, or was he giving himself praise to which he was not entitled? 
 We are not opposing the Bill. 
In no other area of international trade is the competition keener than for capital goods contracts. Here, the advanced nations vie for business with a whole range of sophisticated techniques and inducements. Buyers are courted with long term loans at favourable rates of interest and sometimes a grace period of several years before repayments commence, lt is all the more creditable, therefore, that in this climate Australian exporters achieved the success that accompanied their efforts in the past year. 
The tenor of the Bill is indicative of the fact that Australian manufacturers, in attempting to gain exports, have found enormous overseas competition based mainly today on the availability of finance for the buyers whom they hope will purchase the goods. Capital goods are going from Australia to Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, New Caledonia, New Zealand, 
Taiwan and Thailand. All have had some benefit of cover by the Corporation's business. 
There is quite a deal to be said about the move in relation to buyers credit, the level of the contracts which may be entered into, the fact that 20 per cent of the initial contract is required as a deposit so that the Corporation can be confident that a genuine contract is being entered into - which means that only 80 per cent of the contract volume may be insured by the Corporation - and the fact that there shall be at least 65 per cent Australian content in the contract to be entered into. These are important matters and matters to which the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  referred in his second reading speech. In the context of the general points raised by the Opposition and as are expressed clearly in the Minister's second reading speech I have great pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the financial difficulties being experienced by the ever-increasing number of Australians unemployed, will the Minister give sympathy and urgent consideration to increasing unemployment entitlements to at least the maximum provided for other social service entitlements? Will the Minister agree that such action would be justified in view of the fact that the Government has been able to find an additional$30m to assist wool growers experiencing financial difficulties? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. As a question concerning a request for urgent consideration of the upgrading of unemployment payments is regarded as a budgetary measure, could not the grant to wool growers of an additional $30m likewise be regarded as a budgetary measure? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe 2 issues which the honourable senator has joined in one question are dealt with in different ways. The honourable senator has proposed that certain things be done in relation to unemployment payments and I have said that this is a matter which should go to the Treasurer for his comment. The other matter raised by him presumably relates to a question asked earlier today of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry in relation to a statement which appeared in the Press as a consequence of a decision of the Government. There is nothing inappropriate in what I have suggested to the honourable senator. The only way in which consideration could be given to his proposal is by having it referred to the Treasurer. As a courtesy to the Senate, to the honourable senator, and to you,  Sir, I  have suggested that that procedure should be followed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What isthe percentage of total personal incomes for the years 1963-64 to 1970-71 of wages and salaries in Australia. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Will the Minister institute immediate inquiries into what appears to be a continuous and deliberate policy to reduce official post offices to non- official status? Does the Minister realise that should this trend continue recruitment opportunities for young people in country and metropolitan areas will be imperilled? Will the Minister immediately investigate the reasons why the Northgate Post Office in Brisbane will operate in the near future under non-official conditions and thus test the judgment of the Post Office administration as to the desirability of such contemplated action? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
 Will the Minister give sympathetic and urgent consideration to increasing unemployment entitlements to at least the maximum provided for other social service entitlements. 
I rise to speak on this Bill only to draw the attention of the Senate to the stupidity of the financial arrangements operating in Australia today. This has been brought about, of course, by the maladministration of this Government which is supposed to have governed Australia for the past 22 years. I say supposed to have governed- 
 Senator Marriott,  an Assistant Minister, has nothing to do with the Senate with the exception of playing understudy to the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  I suggest that  Senator Marriott  remain silent, as  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson said to him when he was first appointed Assistant Minister. If honourable senators consider the situation in Australia today, as evidenced by the second reading speech of the Minister for Health, they will see just how completely incongruous is the financial situation today in Australia. Notwithstanding the interjection from  Senator Marriott  I repeat that this can be attributed to the maladministration of the Government in power today. 
I refer the Senate to the second paragraph on page 2 of the Minister's second reading speech. I want to read it for the benefit of  Senator Marriott  and other members of the Government in the Senate. 
Of course I am indicating that I can read but I would not be so complimentary to  Senator Marriott  because since he became Assistant Minister he has become part of the Establishment. 
The hind part. That was contrary to the wishes of his colleagues in the Liberal Party, particularly when we consider something that has been discussed quite frequently in the corridors of Parliament House in the last few days. In the second paragraph on page 2 of the Minister's speech he said: 
As honourable senators may be aware, the Queensland Government has recently applied for a special grant for 1971-72. The Commission can be expected to submit a special report on Queensland's application later in this financial year. If the Commission recommends payment of a special grant to Queensland, and if the Government accepts that recommendation, then legislation will have to be introduced to provide for the payment of the grant before the end of 1971-72. 
I repeat the phrase: 'and if the Government accepts that recommendation'. Could one suggest that the Government will ref use the recommendation? I suggest that this is part and parcel of a deal by the Government with the Country Party and Liberal Party Government in Queensland to manipulate the finances of Australia. This Federal Government will accede to the request of the Queensland Government. 
That is a very uncharitable statement from  Senator Webster,  the hanging senator who wants to hang people in 1971. What a shocking situation for a young fellow of that calibre who has said, quite cold-bloodedly, that he would hang people. My godfather! 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! I think it would be better if  Senator Milliner  addressed the Chair and stuck to the Bill. 
In deference to you,  Mr Deputy President,  I will address the Chair but I repeat that for a young fellow to have an attitude such as that is a shocking indication of the inability of the Country Party to be part and parcel of this coalition Government. Let us examine why the Minister made this remark about Queensland becoming a mendicant State. The Queensland Government applied to the Commonwealth Government for a $10m grant to assist people in drought stricken areas in central Queensland. The Commonwealth Government rejected such an approach. The Queensland Government thought that that was wrong and in its Budget it allocated $10m to wool growers and other people in central Queensland. What happened then? After allocating that $10m Queensland applied to the Commonwealth Government to become a mendicant State. Therefore I ask you,  Mr Deputy President,  was it not stupid in the first place for the Commonwealth Government to reject the application and stupid for the Queensland Government to allocate $10m and then come back to the Commonwealth for a $10m grant? If there is any logic in that I ask the Minister to explain it to me. I am sure it would be impossible for him to do so. 
That leads me to believe that the financial arrangements of the Commonwealth are being administered in an archaic fashion and until such time as the Government adopts some of the principles of socialism the Commonwealth's financial arrangements will continue to be in this almost impossible situation. There are companies in Queensland making fantastic profits yet we find the Queensland Government, members of the Country Party who believe in the philosophies of the Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  saying that it is broke. Queensland could be one of the wealthiest States in the Commonwealth but because of the maladministration of Liberal and Country Party governments, assisted by the Democratic Labor Party, it is becoming a mendicant State - something that Queensland has denied being for many years. 
 lt is useless for  Senator McManus  to say that the Democratic Labor Party has not endeavoured to keep these people in office. It has done so. I say to the Minister that as a result of the maladministration of the financial affairs of the Commonwealth, Queensland has now become a mendicant State; Queensland, one of the proud States of the Commonwealth which has never had to do this in the past is now on bended knees coming to the Commonwealth and asking to become a mendicant State.  Mr Deputy President,  I have stated these things because I believe they should be on the record. 
Will the Minister for Civil Aviation indicate whether the runways at Brisbane Airport are to be extended? If so, is it contemplated that the extension will mean the demolition of homes in the Cribb Island area? If such is the case will the Minister agree to meet representatives of the people living in the Cribb Island area at an early date to discuss details of the future of this community? 
1 enter this debate because I believe that  Senator Douglas  McClelland should be congratulated on raising this very important matter in the Senate tonight, lt is an important issue because the word of a private individual is at stake notwithstanding the stupid grinning of the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood). 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. How did the Prime Minister justify his action in opposing an increase to the workers of Australia during the national wage case of 1972 when in late 1971 he sought by way of legislation a salary increase for himself of approximately $120 a week? 
I think the honourable senator should put his question in the right perspective. The variation in parliamentary salaries was sought also for senators. If the honourable senator did not agree with that course his question would have some substance. Since he did agree with it I do not think his question has validity. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. As it is recognised that the reintroduction of the investment allowance will prove to be a financial bonanza to employers in industry, will the Government be equally generous to workers and allow costs incurred by them in travelling daily to and from work as a legitimate taxation deduction? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe investment allowance is one issue. The honourable senator, along with his colleagues, will have an opportunity at an early date to declare where they stand in relation  to  it and the development  of  industry in Australia. The second matter - the allowance of a deduction for expenses incurred in travelling to and from work - has been raised before; in fact, it has been raised on a number of occasions in the Senate, lt is a separate issue. I will have it referred to the Treasurer for a reply. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Will the Minister give favourable consideration to, firstly, the time limit on trunk line telephone calls being extended from 3 minutes to 5 minutes, particularly in country areas, and, secondly all trunk line calls to ambulance centres, hospitals or doctors in country areas being charged for at the local call rate? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon  notice: 
Will the Postmaster-General institute an immediate inquiry into the continuous reduction of official Poet Offices to non-official status. 
Will employment opportunities for young people in country and metropolitan areas be imperilled if this trend continues. 
Will  the Postmaster-General immediately investigate the reasons why the Northgate Post Office, Brisbane, will, in the near future, operate under non-official conditions. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Will the Postmaster-General explain why persons who seek to have telephones installed in private homes or business premises frequently are told that delay will be experienced because of a shortage of cables. 
What measures have been taken to overcome this shortage. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment. Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Will the Minister urgently consider the implementation ofthe recommendation in the Joint Committee on Publications First Special Report relating to the need to replace inadequate printing machinery at the Government Printing Office in order to cope with the demands of producing Hansard, etc. 
Will the Minister for Air make available to the Senate details of the use of any VIP aircraft which arrived in Brisbane on Wednesday, 2nd February 1972? In supplying such details will .he make known the time and place of departure, the time of arrival and the names of the passengers? 
I rise tonight because of what 1 believe to be an injustice that has been suffered by a lad who has been called up for national service. I preface my remarks by saying that during the past couple of days some notes have passed between myself and  Senator Wright  who, in this chamber, represents the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch). Senator Wright  has been good enough to give me an explanation of the Department's attitude on this matter and I do not propose to take advantage of any of the comments in the official correspondence. However, I. believe that this matter should be ventilated but, in fairness to all concerned, I shall not mention the name of the firm in question nor of the (ad whom I believe has been wronged. 
From the day this lad commenced his apprenticeship there was premeditation on the part of the employer in that he said that he would dismiss the lad when he was called up for national service. That. I submit, is  a  breach of the Act and I ask the Minister to take the necessary steps to prove the sincerity of the employer in this case. When the lad commenced his apprenticeship he was told that when it was completed it was likely that there would not be any work for him. How could any employer anticipate that in 5 years time there would not be any work for the apprentice who had then completed his apprenticeship? That in itself, to my way of thinking, is a suspicious start to the whole episode. 
In about September 1971 when the lad's period of apprenticeship was drawing to a close, the employer called him into his office and stated that he doubted whether there would be sufficient work to keep the lad going when he completed his apprenticeship but that he - the employer - would look at the situation when the lad registered for national service and when he had had his medical check. The lad accepted that. On 26th January 1972 he completed his indenture. At that time he had not had the report of the medical officer from the Department. He was not put off work at that time. Bear in mind that he had been told that he would be put off on completion of his indenture. I think all honourable senators would know that an apprentice serves his indenture for a stipulated period at the end of which the employer can dismiss him immediately or, alternatively, the lad can leave on the day on which he completes his apprenticeship. There is no suggestion of a week's notice of termination of employment on either side. I repeal that the lad completed his indenture on 26th January 1972 and was not dismissed. A few days later he received notification that his medical record was clear and that he was to be called up in April. On 18th February, approximately 22 days after the lad had completed his apprenticeship, his employer dismissed him. 1 know that there were circumstances which will enable the employer to say that he was trying to get the lad a job with another firm. I repeat that, in my firm belief, had the lad's medical report not been satisfactory, he would not have been dismissed at all. The employer would have kept the lad in his employment. 
What are the circumstances that face the lad? I believe he was dismissed from his employment because he was called up for national service and he cannot get a job anywhere. He was sent to another firm by the Department of Labour and National Service and that firm refused to employ him, notwithstanding the fact that it is advertising for a tradesman of this lad's calling. Why did it happen? It happened because the firm knew that if it employed the lad, he would be its responsibility when he completed his national service. I have no criticism of the officers of the Department of Labour and National Service. I think f know their personal views on this matter. They submitted a report to the appropriate authorities who said that there was no case. No-one will ever convince me that there is not a case for the employer to answer. This has happened before. I have been informed that this has happened in other areas of employment and on each occasion the Department of Labour and National Service has been able to influence the employer to take back the lad concerned. However, on this occasion, this employer stands firm. He said that he has consulted his legal adviser, which suggests that there may be some doubt about the action that he took, and he has been told lhat he was quite within his rights. 
I repeat that 1 believe the Department of Labour and National Service should test this case by making the employer state on oath where he stands in this issue. I know of another recent case within the same trade where the employer went to a lad a week before he was to complete his apprenticeship and said to him: '1 believe you should resign straight away'. The lad said: 'Well, I am still an apprentice and I will have to see my parents'. He went home and saw his parents who said to him: 'You will do nothing of the kind. You are an apprentice and you will complete your period of indenture'. So he returned to work and informed his employer. At the end of the week when the lad completed his indenture his employer immediately sacked him. Why was this done? lt was done because the lad had been called up for national service. I just mention this for the information of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  who knows nothing about this second case, but 1 shall make his officers in Brisbane aware of the circumstances. 
It appears to me that there will be a concerted effort by some employers within the industry to which I have referred to get rid of lads when they are called up for national service. I do not need to remind you,  Mr President,  or the Minister of the provisions of the Act and I hope that the Minister, knowing the details thatI have supplied to him and knowing the details which have been supplied to him by the Department of Labour and National Service, will test the bona fides of this firm by prosecuting it under secton 54b of the Act. The Minister will agree that the Act is quite explicit. Even if the Department is not successful this action at least will indicate to employers that they are not to do these things to lads who are called up for national service. 
I conclude on that note and hope that the Minister will do all in his power to influence the Department to prosecute this employer under section 54b of the Act so that he can come out into the open and let the court determine the bona fides of the dismissal. I believe he cannot prove his case. Even if he was in this position legally, what is the moral situation? We arc representatives of the people and we have heard much today and tonight about national service. Surely it is our responsibility to give absolute protection to lads who are called up for national service. We cannot doso until such time as the employer in this case proves his bona fides. 1 repeat thatI do not think he can do so. 
This is not a threat and I do not want the Government to regard this as such, but workers on the job in this industry are most irate about what has happened. The union has talked to them and has prevailed on them to see what we can do. If the Government does nothing about it the union cannot be held responsible for the actions of the mcn. In these circumstances I stand here and say that I would support every move they make to try to bring this employer before the court to prove that he is not penalising a lad because he has been called up for national service. 
When the Minister for Health makes a statement this day on arrangements for the appointment of an arbitrator to hear evidence in relation to the determination of a common fee for the medical profession, will he indicate whether it is the intention of the Government to instruct its officers to oppose any increase, just as it did when it opposed wage increases for workers during the 1972 national wage case? 
I can only say: Wait for it. After all, such comments must not be made before the presentation of the statement. I think that the thing to do is to wait until the statement is made. 
by  leave - I present the fourteenth report from the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Health. Are we to assume from the answer he gave this morning that there will be a fur: her review of the common fee for medical practitioners on or about 30th June 1 973? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONYes. That is no new departure. That is the condiion under which the scheme was entered into in respect of all States of the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Victorian Benefits Association committed contributors' funds to the newly-formed Voluntary Health Insurance Association of Australia. 
Is this new association  a  political organisation whose aim is to wage  a  political campaign against the introduction of  a  governmentsponsored universal health scheme. 
What is the general position regarding the right of health funds to commit contributor's funds to political organisations. 
I assume the honourable senator means the Hospital Benefits Association. I have been informed that this Association pays an annual subscription of $300 to the Voluntary Health Insurance Association of Australia. 
No. The stated objects of the Voluntary Health Insurance Association of Australia are: 
To provide an Association for the purpose of considering matters affecting organisations registered under Part VI of the National Health Act 1953-1970, as amended from time to time, with special reference to the interests of contributors. 
To foster and promote the principles, practice, development and philosophy of voluntary health insurance as the best method of financing the costs of health care. 
To make representations and submissions where deemed necessary or desirable to the appropriate persons or authorities in respect of any matter affecting the interests of members or any member of the Association, subject to prior consideration by the members. 
To provide a medium through which opinions of members may be ascertained or expressed. ' 
To formulate  a  code of ethics for adoption by members. 
To do all such things as may be incidental to or conducive to the promotion or carrying out of these objects or any one of them, and to exercise all such powers as are contained in the Third Schedule of the New South Wales Companies Act 1961. 
The use of contributors' funds for political purposes is not considered  a  legitimate charge against management expenses of registered organisations. 
I am sorry that this matter has been raised in such a way as to indicate to many people that there may be disagreement among the people of Australia on the way in which Aborigines should be regarded. I shall not address myself to the allegations that were made by  Senator Keeffe  or to the way in which  Senator Bonner  refuted those statements. 
We hear again from 'The Silence of Dean Maitland'. Time alone will tell what is the actual situation concerning the incidents referred to by  Senator Keeffe  in his statements to the Senate Committee. I say with . all the authority that I can command that if  Senator Keeffe  believed that the information he received was accurate it was his responsibility to make that information known. 
Now the Democratic Labor Party is suggesting that the information should have been checked, but if he knew where the Aboriginal centre was in Queensland the DLP  Senator would  not make that suggestion. I repeat that if  Senator Keeffe  received information which he believed, he was justified in making those accusations to the people concerned. Time alone will tell whether the accusations made by  Senator Keeffe  are correct or whether the account given by the manager of the mission referred to is correct. I leave the matter at that point. The matter to which I object is that  Senator Bonner,  obviously at the behest of several members of the Liberal Parly, has raised this matter as a political issue. It appears to me significant that we were scheduled to adjourn tonight at  11  p.m., but that at  10.15  p.m. the motion for the adjournment was moved. We are entitled to be a little suspicious and to suspect that the adjournment motion was moved to enable  Senator Bonner  to speak in time to catch the morning papers. 
I am fully aware that  Senator Douglas  McClelland spoke first, but what does that prove? 
That does not alter the fact that the Senate was scheduled to sit until  11  p.m. and that the motion for the adjournment was moved at about  10.15  p.m. The fact that  Senator Douglas  McClelland spoke does not alter that. We are entitled to believe that there were suspicious circumstances associated with the adjournment motion being moved at that time. 
The Assistant Minister who is not allowed to speak is now entering the debate. He is not allowed even to answer questions, so he should not interject either. A further point is that  Senator Bonner  suggested that we were turning the lives of Aborigines into a political football. I suggest that if  Senator Bonner  was fair he would at least have warned  Senator Keeffe  that he intended to speak along these lines tonight. It is a common courtesy to extend this warning, but  Senator Bonner  is new to the Senate, as I am, and perhaps he can be excused for not realising that it is a matter of common courtesy to give the warning. But do not tell me that other members of the Liberal Party who knew that  Senator Bonner  intended to raise this matter tonight were not aware of their responsibility to advise him that he should warn  Senator Keeffe  of what he intended to say. The AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood),  in his inimitable cynical manner, grins when . statements of that nature are made. We are becoming so accustomed to this from the Attorney-General. All he is doing is denigrating his position as Attorney-General. 
They are the facts and they are irrefutable. The point that I object to even more strongly is that  Senator Bonner  should bring  Dr Everingham^  name into this debate tonight. For the information of  Senator Bonner  and all other honourable senators I say that I personally have been on the Woorabinda Mission in Queensland with  Dr Everingham.  He was the first person to raise the fact that there was a higher infant mortality rate on Woorabinda than in Queensland or, indeed, in Australia. Surely the world should not be informed maliciously and falsely that a man of his standing in the community plays Aborigines off as political issues. I refute that statement completely. If  Senator Bonner  were to go to Rockhampton and make that statement, the people of Rockhampton would run him out of town. Those are the objections which I take. I believe it is unfair and wrong that  Senator Bonner  should introduce into the debate something about  Dr Everingham.  I repeat that I know of noone in Queensland who has done more for the Aborigines than has  Dr Everingham. 

 Senator Bonner has referred to the fact that  Dr Everingham  is alleged to have said that the Aborigines should be sterilised. What  Senator Bonner  has failed to make the Senate aware of tonight is that that report appeared in the Rockhampton Morning Bulletin' and the next day  Dr Everingham  wrote a letter to the newspaper stating that the statement was completely wrong and that he had been misreported. The other night we heard the Attorney-General complain about what he believed was misreporting by a Melbourne daily newspaper. He was entitled to do that. Surely  Senator Bonner  was entitled to and should have been responsible for making known the fact that  Dr Everingham  denied completely the story which was presented in the first instance in that newspaper. It is wrong to accuse  Senator Keeffe  and  Dr Everingham  of making the Aboriginal situation a political issue. 
If we are to be accused of that, then I suggest to  Senator Bonner  that he go to his ex-Prime Minister and tell him that he, the ex-Prime Minister, was trying to make the lives of the Aborigines a political issue. It was  Mr Gorton  who said that unless the Queensland Government removed from its statute book some of the discriminatory laws against Aborigines he, as Prime Minister, would be forced to come into the issue and see that those discriminatory provisions were removed. If we are to be accused of making a political issue when we stand up in defence of the Aborigines, then I say that the ex-Prime Minister has also to be accused because what he has said is on record. If anybody in this chamber tonight had done as much to advance the interests of the Aborigines - particularly those of Queensland - as had  Senator Keeffe  and  Dr Everingham,  then the lives of the Aborigines in this Commonwealth would be much better than they are today. 
Is the Minister for Health aware that at least one nursing home in Brisbane requires inmates who are living permanently in the home and who are temporarily transferred to hospital for treatment to pay $3.50 a day in addition to the regular weekly payment for each day that they are hospitalised? Is this procedure adopted with the approval of the Minister and/or his departmental officers? 
I invite the honourable senator to discuss this matter with me at the conclusion of question time. The honourable senator's question was related to a particular nursing home. I do not think that I should canvass a matter of that nature at question time. I do not think the honourable senator would want it to be done that way. If the honourable senator were to tell me of the circumstances I would find out the facts for him and make them available to him. If after that the honourable senator wanted to make them available to the Senate I would not be reluctant to that being done. 
But I think that we should satisfy ourselves first as to the particularity of the case to which he has referred. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
In view of the re-introduction of investment allowances which will prove to be a financial bonanza to industry, will the Government be equally generous to workers and allow costs incurred by them in travelling to and from work as a deduction from income for taxation purposes. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Entirely distinct issues are involved in the questions of restoring the income tax investment allowance for manufacturing industry and of providing, by way of an entirely new concession, the allowance of income tax deductions for expenses incurred in travelling to and from work. The conditions determining the restoration of the one concession do not afford grounds for introducing the other. 
The question of allowing income tax deductions for expenses of travelling to and from work has been listed for consideration, on its own merits and against the competing claims for other new or extended taxation concessions, in the context of preparing the 1972-73 Budget. 
I would like to join other honourable senators in congratulating  Senator Webster  for raising this issue. It shows that a matter involving parliamentary procedure can be raised without any thought of politics. I think the Minister will agree that it is an absurd situation. Parliamentarians are placed in a most unusual and even a stupid position. After working assiduously as a committee member, as my colleagues have described, it is extraordinary that one should have to sit on a railway station for 2 or 3 hours before catching a slow train to one's home town. I do not think the public would accept it. People would be reluctant to believe this story. They would not agree that it could possibly happen. We seem to be frightened to say what is happening to us for fear of the Press or something else. We accept these situations but I believe that it is time that we raised our voices in protest on these issues. 
Let us consider the Canberra allowance.  Mr Justice  Kerr has been promoted to another position, but about 7 or 8 months ago he recommended that the Canberra allowance be raised to $22 a day. What have we done about it? We have accepted $15 a day and I have not heard one word of protest from anybody, including members of my own Party. We have been told that the increase is on the grapevine and we will get it. Now we are told that because a Sydney newspaper has raised the issue we will not receive $22 a day. We are living on $15 a day whereas the staff of some of the Party leaders, and probably the staff of Ministers, are receiving $17 a day. Female staff are receiving $17 a day and we are receiving $15 a day. 
Is it not completely crazy? Whose fault is it? It is nobody's fault but our own because we have not had the courage to stand up and say what we should receive. I ask the Minister to detail, at his convenience, the number of public servants in Canberra who receive a daily allowance higher than $15. If that information is tabled I think it will be seen that the comparison most certainly does not favour parliamentarians and will give an indication to the people of Australia that parliamentarians travelling to Canberra should be in receipt of a much higher daily allowance than $15, because actually it costs us considerably more than $15 a day to travel to Canberra to do our job, I hope on behalf of the nation. 
I direct a question to you,  Mr President.  Are you aware that the publication of yesterday's Senate Hansard has been delayed by nearly 4i hours today, thereby causing great inconvenience to honourable senators, departments, the diplomatic corps and other recipients? Was this delay due to a mechanical breakdown at the Government Printing Office? If so, will you use your good offices with the Treasurer to have the Government Printer's obsolete machinery replaced with modern equipment, as recommended by the Joint Committee on Publications last year? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that the Australian Medical Association has, in its submission to the inquiry on general practitioner fees, said that the common fee scale now no longer applies and that the existing fees should be increased by up to 120 per cent? Does the Minister accept that the common fee scale has finally broken down altogether and that doctors are thus entitled to an immediate increase in fees as an interim measure, pending the completion of the nationwide review of fees to be carried out in July of this year? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONWhen this inquiry was originally set up under  Mr Justice  Kerr - it is now under  Mr Justice  Mason - I thought I made it clear that I did not think it would be proper for me to be reflecting on matters which were before the inquiry. I know that  Senator Milliner  will realise when he reflects upon this matter that I cannot make a comment upon the question he has asked. The honourable senator should either put his question on the notice paper for answering after  Mr Justice  Mason has put down his report or accept my answer that 1 cannot comment at this point of time. 
asked the Acting Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Will the Minister give favourable consideration to, firstly, the time limit on trunk line telephone calls being extended from 3 minutes to 5 minutes, particularly in country areas, and, secondly, all trunk line calls to ambulance centres, hospitals or doctors in country areas being charged for at the local call rate? 

 Senator COTTON - The answer to the able senator's question is as follows: 
Post Office experience is that the majority of trunk calls are of three minutes duration, or less. With the arrangement of charging operatorconnected trunk calls on a 5-minute basis instead of in 3-minute periods, there would be an inducement for many callers to prolong their conversations unnecessarily. The increased time during which trunk lines would be occupied as a result would necessitate provision of additional lines, at substantial cost, at a time when difficulty is being experienced in keeping pace with normal growth in trunk call traffic. 
The first proposition put by the honourable senator therefore cannot be accepted. I think the answer to it lies in the use of subscriber trunk dialling (S.T.D.) whereby the charge for a trunk call is directly related to the conversation time used, and not related to three-minute segmentsor part thereof as in the case of operator-connected trunk calls. The Post Office is extending the availability of S.T.D. as quickly as it can. 
Regarding the suggestion that trunk calls to ambulance centres, hospitals or doctors be charged as local calls, the honourable senator would know that in 19S9 the Government approved a major policy which determined the basis of development of the telephone service in Australia. Part of this policy increased the distance over which calls could be made for a local call fee, from 5 miles to about 20 miles. With relatively few exceptions, the community at large gained considerable benefit from this development. 
While certainly not denying that the circumstances requiring a call to a doctor, for example, may be important and urgent, such calls generally speaking form a small part of subscribers' total telephone usage and therefore would normally not constitute a high cost item. I think most subscribers would, in an emergency, wilingly pay the cost of a trunk call for help or expert advice if such were not available for a local call fee. Since the cost of line plant has a relationship with distance, it simply is not practicable to disregard distance in the application of charges for telephone calls, even calls of a special nature. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport seen the comments by 2 visiting American automobile executives that current Australian car models lag four to five years behind their American counterparts in anti-pollution devices? Does the Government intend to act so that Australian motor vehicles will be required to at least meet American standards of pollution control? 
 I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise. Will the Minister investigate the possibility of passengers travelling overseas who have purchased articles from duty free gift shops being given the right to elect that such articles be retained at the shop until they return to Australia or be delivered to the aircraft immediately prior to its departure? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice:  ls the Minister aware that out-patients at private hospitals in Queensland are denied reimbursement of fees by hospital benefits funds when the operating theatres at such hospitals are used; if so, is this a new procedure. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is it a fact that after a rather prolonged and detailed study of the requirement for an alternative domestic jet airport the Minister accepted a recommendation that the airport should be at Longreach? Is it a fact that the Minister replied to that effect to my representation on 24th September 1969? Is it a fact that the Minister has now abandoned Longreach as the project? If so. will he now give favourable consideration to establishing the base at Charleville? 
 I support the Bill but I wish also to draw attention to some of the stupidities that are going on in Australia today. On the day that this measure receives royal assent, all Queensland should dress in black. In effect it is dead because of the stupidities of the Queensland Government that has put itself in the position of leading a mendicant State, a pauper State.  Senator Lawrie  is about the leave the chamber. He said a few minutes ago that he is proud of the fact that the elected representatives of the Queensland people had come to the Commonwealth Government and said: 'We are broke. We want some additional money.' He and his colleagues are prepared to go cap in hand to the Commonwealth Grants Commission as a result of their own maladministration, and he is proud of that. I do not see how, as a Queenslander, he can be proud of that effort. Thousands of other Queenslanders are far from proud of it. 
Queensland has had a proud record in times of drought, flood, unemployment and depressions. Never before have we had to become a mendicant State, but it has happened in this period of affluence.  Senator Lawrie  stressed the importance of Queensland and the development that had taken place under the present Government. Now this allegedly affluent State has become a mendicant State - a pauper State. There is not much to be proud of in that. The Queensland Government is alleged to have done many marvellous things, but now it is broke and must go cap in hand to the Commonwealth for additional funds. I will deal with that aspect subsequently. 1 want now to make a few observations about the Queensland Government. When the present Queensland Government was elected its supporters said: 'We ate people of business acumen - people who can manage the finances of the State.' Does their latest effort indicate that they have lived up to their words? Does their performance in leading Queensland to become a pauper State for the first time in its history indicate that they have the ability to manage the State's financial affairs? Obviously not. 

 Senator Lawrie cited some important figures in his speech. He said that 9 million tons of coal had recently been extracted in Queensland, from one area. Let us analyse what that coal means to the State. With royalties payable at 5c a ton the State receives $450,000 for 9 million tons of our precious mineral resources.  Senator Lawrie  can be proud of that effort if he wishes, but 1 am not.  Senator Lawrie  referred to the new power house at Gladstone but he did not remind the. people and honourable senators that the Queensland Government borrowed $80m from the Commonwealth to build it, and is paying interest on that loan at 64? per cent. 

 Senator Lawrie also referred to Queensland's railways. My godfather, one of the worst things that ever happened in negotiations between a State and the Commonwealth was when the Queensland Government negotiated for money to build the rail link between Townsville and Mount Isa. It has cost the people of Queensland approximately $3 8m to date, whereas in every other State such funds have been provided on a $1 for $1 basis. But not in Queensland with its allegedly magnificent government that claims that it can do so much to manage successfully the finances of the State. Queensland received no financial assistance to construct the railway line between Mount lsa and Townsville. Yet, members of the Country Party - and I suspect members of the Liberal Party would do likewise - try to justify the actions of the Country Party-Liberal Party Government in Queensland in coming to the Commonwealth for additional money for budgetary purposes this financial year. I submit that the Queensland Government is a government of dishonesty, and I hope that I will be able to prove that statement subsequently. 

 Senator Lawrie said some other amazing things in the course of his remarks. He was the principal  speaker  for the Country Party. He said that he welcomed the fact that Queensland had become a mendicant State. If that is his opinion, let him accept the responsibility of it. Let him go to the people of Queensland and say: 'We have now become a mendicant State. Notwithstanding the fact that Queensland came through depressions, floods, fires, unemployment, droughts and other afflictions, we are now a mendicant State'. How in the name of goodness can anybody justify pride in Queensland becoming a pauper State when, over the years, it has overcome all its difficulties. Our society in 1972 is supposed to be affluent. Queensland is supposed to have a government that has developed the State to the point that it is rich. Yet, Queensland has become a mendicant State, The honourable senator should bow his head in shame that he should attempt to justify the actions of a government that has brought Queensland to that level.  Senator Lawrie  and, I suspect, other senators who are members of the Country Party will not tell us what becoming a mendicant State will mean to Queensland. It means that Queensland will not exercise the control over its own affairs that other sovereign States exercise over their affairs. Tasmania has experienced this situation but I think that Tasmania is in a slightly different position from Queensland. If Queensland continues to be a mendicant State it will not control as a sovereign State its affairs in the way that it would like- 
That is all right. 
I will talk about the Bill,  Senator Marriott.  As an Assistant Minister who has nothing to do- 
All right. I am speaking about the dishonesty of a government which has gone before the Commonwealth Grants Commission, and honourable senators opposite do not like it. They do not like that dishonesty to be unveiled and to be paraded before the Australian people. I propose to continue to do so. Neither will honourable senators like it when I tell them why the Queensland Government has reduced Queensland to a mendicant State. 
We heard  Senator Lawrie  say today on the subject of freight charges that freight charges imposed by the Queensland Railway Department in the Northern Division and the Central Division were high because the people in the metropolis had cheaper rail transport. Fancy a representative of the Government having the audacity to rise in his place and to say in effect: 'People in the country areas of Queensland are penalised because we have not the courage to impose proper charges on the people in the metropolis'. That is what the honourable senator said, and he represents country people. He is merely a craven representative of government who would make such a statement. 

 Senator Lawrie sought to justify the absurdity of the royalties paid on coal to the State on the basis that the royalties provide employment opportunities for Queensland workers. Of course employment opportunities are provided. If the royalties paid were 20c a ton or lc a ton, employment opportunities would still be provided. The point is that the royalties that are paid are so ridiculously low that Queensland suffers as a result. I ask honourable senators to visualise the area represented by 20 tons of coal. As honourable senators picture an area of that size for a moment I ask them to note that the Queensland Government will receive $1 as a royalty payment for that 20 tons of coal. I do not know how much a stockpile of 20 tons of coal is worth, but the Queensland Government will receive a royalty payment of $1 for such a stockpile. 
Of course. In a few years time, the value of 5c will have depreciated to such an extent that it will be worth only 2c; that could be the situation in 4 years or 5 years time. No provision is made in the contract relating to coal that the royalty payment will rise as the value of the dollar is eroded. Surely no one could say that a government which has allowed minerals to be taken out of Australia at such a price has been responsible. We are giving our minerals away. I wish to get on to the honesty or dishonesty  -  I put honesty' in quotation marks; 'dishonesty' I would prefer to say- 
No  Senator shall  use offensive words against either House of Parliament or any member of such House, or of any House of a State Parliament . . . 
We would not care to have it said that we were a dishonest Parliament. I do not think that the honourable senator should say that about a State parliament. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! On the point of order, I draw the attention of honourable senators to the fact that standing order 418 states: 
No  Senator shall  use offensive words against either House of Parliament or any member of such House, or of any House of a State Parliament . . . 
I think that to impute dishonesty- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Truth requires definition. I would request honourable senators in referring to other houses of parliament to observe the provisions of thai standing order so that its wording is not transgressed. 
 I accept your request,  Mr Deputy President,  and I shall refer instead to the unusual actions of the State Government of Queensland. 
Prior to the last State election in Queensland, the Premier said: 'We have no intention whatsoever of interfering with the liquor laws of Queensland'. Yet, 3 months after he was elected, the Queensland Premier announced that the State liquor laws were to be amended. Church authorities took deep exception to this proposal and they interviewed the Premier. The Premier said: 'Yes, I did say that I had no intention of interfering with the liquor laws of Queensland, but I said that 3 months ago. My opinion is changed now. I am entitled to change my opinion 3 months after I expressed it'. 1 suggest that that is a most unusual statement for the leader of a government to make. 
1 say it is unusual. An honourable senator says that it is dishonest. 1 accept what he says, although politically dishonest' would perhaps be a more appropriate term. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Order!  Senator Milliner,  you will confine yourself to the measure before the Chair and not stray to various other authorities and legislatures. 
I now come to a situation* in which there was to be a redistribution of seats in Queensland. Everybody, particularly members of the Liberal Party, said that there would be no increase in the number of politicians in the State Parliament. But what happened? As a result of the unseemly behaviour of both Liberal and Country Party members in the State House, in brawling - in the widest sense - among themselves as to who would retain the Treasury benches in Queensland, it was eventually agreed that there would be an increase of 2 representatives in the State Parliament. This was at a time when they were saying to the workers of Queensland: Tighten your belts, intiation is with us, and consequently you must do what we say, that is, peg wages'. Yet they themselves increased the number of representatives in the State Parliament by two. They went even further and introduced legislation to increase their salaries by 28 per cent. They also increased the superannuation and retiring allowances, notwithstanding 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Order!  Senator Milliner,  you must keep within the bounds of the Bill and keep to a temperate description and phraseology. 
I believe I am doing that. I believe I am showing that the Queensland Government has mis-spent its money and now it is necessary for it to come to the Commonwealth for money. Surely I am entitled to say those things. If they hurt honourable senators opposite I am sorry, but I cannot help it. We know that that is the situation, and that the back bencher in the State Parliament would have received more than honourable senators sitting here tonight. I accuse honourable senators on the Government side of not having the fortitude to stand up to their Ministry and I accuse members of the Ministry of being very greedy individuals. The Prime Minister wanted a salary increase of about $8,000 a year for himself, and at the same time he was telling his representatives to make certain submissions in the national wage case in opposition to the workers' application for a wage increase. There are 2 standards, and honourable senators opposite cannot deny that that is correct.  Senator Bonner,  who is seeking to interject, can have his say later. 
Let me come to the financial statement of the Queensland Treasurer,  Sir Gordon  Chalk. At page 8 of that statement, which he presented to the Queensland Parliament on 23rd September 1971, one finds this incredible comment, which I suggest is another factor which required the State to become a mendicant State. It reads: 
Another feature of the Budget is the institution of a scheme to provide worthwhile rehabilitation assistance to our severely depressed wool, industry in the area running roughly from Charleville to Richmond, an area that has been described as the disaster area of central Queensland. 
 'Hear, hear,' says  Senator Maunsell.  Let me read a little further and show up his government in a very bad light: 
The Government - 
The State Government -  has been greatly concerned at the plight of the producers in. this area for quite some time. They have endured not only the depressed market prices which have been experienced by all wool growers in Australia but also the deprivations of drought in 8 out of the last 10 years. The State Government has on several occasions pressed the Commonwealth Government for special assistance for these producers, but without success. 
That is the State Government saying that  Senator Maunsell's  Government has failed to assist the people in these drought stricken areas. I hope he is proud of that. The statement continues: 
In framing the Budget I- 

 Sir Gordon Chalk  set out with a determination that every endeavour should be made to prevent the collapse of industry in this State - whether it be heavy industry or primary - and in this view I have had the full support of all my parliamentary colleagues. The Government has therefore decided that, despite its budgetary stringencies, it will now 'go it alone' with a $10m scheme of special assistance in this area. 
If the honourable senator is proud of an unusual type of government, that is his responsibility. There we have it in a nutshell. The State Government approached the Commonwealth Government. The Commonwealth Government said; 'No, you will not get the additional money for the people on whose behalf you are making the representations'. What happened then? The State Government gave it to them in its Budget and then it went back to the Commonwealth, through the back door, to get it. 
Of course, but that is not the point. The point is that there is a double standard. If the honourable senator cannot see that, I am sorry for him. The situation is that it is a double standard and one cannot avoid accepting it as such. Let us look at the Queensland Government, which boasts about the wonderful performance it puts up. The report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission states: 
The Government of Queensland made an application on 30th September 1971 to the Commonwealth Government for a special grant of financial assistance for the year 1971-72 to be provided under section 96 of the Constitution. 
Further on it says: 
The Queensland Government's submission expresses the belief that industrial development in the Slate would tend in the long term to raise average incomes nearer to those in the standard States. 
Yet, when I say that Queensland is a low wage State,  Senator Maunsell  and his colleagues come out and try to denounce me. Let us see how inefficient the Queensland Government is. Honourable senators may recall that at the last Premiers Conference the Queensland representatives were elated when they were given the right to levy payroll tax. No sooner had they got back to Queensland than they said this in their submission to the Commonwealth Grants Commission: 
The effect of Queensland's below standard capacity in payroll tax . . . 
Yet they say that they will increase their payroll in the long term to raise average incomes nearer to those in the standard States. Surely this would not be a serious submission by a responsible government. Let me refer again to the special report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission of 1972, in which at page 6 it is stated: 
Queensland examined its budgetary prospects for 1971-72 in the light of actual figures for the first 6 months of the year and other information which had become available since the estimates were presented to the Parliament. It considered that the final budget deficit was likely to be about $ 10.5m rather than the figure of $7m indicated in the budget. 
That was stated in 1971. On 23rd September 1971 the budget was presented to the State parliament. The Government said that it was budgeting for a deficit of $7m. In the same month it came to the Commonwealth and said that the amount was no longer $7m but $10m. Let us look a little further at what the Commonwealth Grants Commission said. I am still referring to the Queensland Government submission. Page 8 of the report states: 
Queensland supported its general contention that its freight rates are higher per ton mile than in the standard States by a comparison of railway operating surpluses in recent years in the light of the comparative difficulties under which the Queensland railways operate. These difficulties were exemplified by statistics shown in Table 20 in Appendix C of the Commission's 38th Report. They included a route mileage in relation to population which is 2.3 times the standard State average;  a  figure for goods and livestock carried per route mile which is only 52 per cent of the average tonnage for the standard Stales; and railway employment which relative to population was 49  per  cent above the standard State average. Despite these difficulties Queensland's per capita operating surplus, for the period from 1967-68 to 1969-70 shown in the table, was $5.88 per capita compared with an average of $1.71 for New South Wales and Victoria. 
What did the Commonwealth Government say in relation to this? It was fairly critical. 
That is the silent, acting Minister. 
The  ACTNG  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Order!  Senator Milliner,  you will address the chair. 
I shall do that,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I just want to say that the honourable senator has nothing to do but interject. The Commonwealth Grants Commission stated: ii  invites the interested parties to submit further evidence  so  that these matters can be more fully investigated before it recommends a completion grant for Queensland for 1971-72. 
The Commonwealth Government is critical of many things. Yet it knows what has been going on in Queensland and it has turned a blind eye. I ask honourable senators to look at page 13. It must do Queensland a tremendous amount of good for people to say this: 
As to social services expenditure (other than education) and departmental expenditures, the submission expressed agreement 'in very general terms' with Queensland's claim that it has disabilities which should be compensated for through higher per capita general revenue grants. However, it stated that 'the disabilities that exist in these areas generally apply to only a small part of the total expenditure (e.g., expenditure on hospitals in country areas and not hospitals expenditure as  a  whole)', and was therefore critical of the approach taken in the States's submission. . . . 
Again I remind honourable senators that these are the people who claim to have a thorough knowledge of financial responsibility. Yet people ridicule their submissions to the Commonwealth. I close on the note that I believe that this is a sad day indeed for Queensland. If honourable senators read the criticism of the Commonwealth Grants Commission they will see that Queensland was extremely fortunate to receive an allocation of §9m. I submit that the Queensland Government has not been responsible. I. submit also that the Commonwealth Government has not acted as responsibly as it could have in some of the matters raise.d by honourable senators on this side of the chamber. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Air. Is a party of about 20 Royal Australian Air Force personnel going to the United States to obtain spares and support equipment for the 12 
Chinook helicopters purchased by the RAAF? If so, how long will these personnel be overseas? 
I had no intention of speaking on the third reading of this Bill until such time as  Senator Wood, Senator Lawrie  and  Senator Maunsell  had made such pitiful attempts to speak, felt he should come into the debate. But when he did come into it he paraded the fact that he does not get around the bars drinking. Of course he does not, he is a teetotaller. Why should he get around them? But as a Queenslander he does not take sugar in his tea, and that is a crime in Queensland. Of course he does not get around the bars. Neither does he have to go home to his wife at night because he is a bachelor and anybody of his age who is still a bachelor has something wrong with him. I am astounded that  Senator Wood  would try to justify the performance of the Queensland Government which he has criticised on so many occasions for being of a very poor standard in the same way as he has in this chamber criticised his own Government for doing things that were entirely wrong.  Senator Wood  says that the royalty paid by overseas interests for our coal and bauxite of 5c a ton or $1 for 20 tons is a particularly good royalty and that the Queensland Government negotiated a good deal for Queensland. We on this side of the chamber say that it is a pitiful performance by that Government. One can say that sometimes there is an area of politics in these matters and that honourable senators speak with it in mind, but one does not expect the Commonwealth Grants Commission to say that something is good or bad unless it has had evidence placed before it. In this instance it had evidence placed before it and what did it say about the royalties that Queensland collects? 
 I am sorry to have to repeat it. The Commission said: 
The Commonwealth Treasury suggested that the value of mining output might give some indication of capacity to raise mining royalties. This would suggest that Queensland's capacity is above standard; and as royalties collected per head of population in Queensland are below the average per capita in the standard States it would appear that Queensland makes a relatively low effort in this field. 
They are the words of the Commonwealth Grants Commission, not of  Senator Wood  and not of any senator on this side of the chamber. They are the words of the Commonwealth Grants Commission when it was determining its attitude to the application by the Queensland Government. Honourable senators opposite cannot avoid that fact. The Commonwealth Grants Commission has been so critical of the submissions of the Queensland Government that it would be an advantage if we were to move that the tables and submissions of the Queensland Government to the Commission be tabled. Then we would be able to say, with the same strength as the Commonwealth Grants Commission when it said that the submissions were of a poor standard, that the performance of the Queensland Government in the collection of royalties was of an equally low capacity. I am sorry to have had to rise again to speak on this matter. I bad no intention of doing so but when  Senator Wood  came into the debate and said that he is one who is going to take up the case on behalf of the Government because his 2 colleagues made such pitiful attempts to speak in support of the Government's attitude, I believed it was time that he was shown up in the colours in which he has been shown up tonight, and that is as an apology for the Queensland Government. 
I rise particularly because of the interjection of  Senator Webster.  He should have heard the Minister state that the averment provision is used most infrequently. If it is used infrequently, I suggest that it is for the Minister to tell us when it is used and not for us to have to tell the Government. I think that is a fair proposition. I do not know that we should be taxed with the task of informing the Government of when the provision is used against farmers. In reverse, as the Minister has said that it is used most infrequently, I suggest that it is his responsibility to allay  Senator Webster's  fears and to answer his question. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service: Is it a fact that worker and employer representatives attending this year's meeting of the International Labour 
Organisation to be held in Geneva are to receive an allowance of $20 a day whilst attending the conference? Will the Minister investigate this matter with a view to providing a daily allowance considerably in excess of $20 a day so that delegates will be able to live in a manner which we would expect of representatives of the Australian Government? 
 Mr Acting Deputy President,  I believe that you paid  Senator Bishop  a very fine compliment tonight when you said that he had been heard in silence with no interjections from members of the Government parties. That is a very fine compliment indeed.  His  contribution and his arguments, unlike the argument advanced by  Senator Webster,  were unanswerable. That is the reason he was not interrupted. I direct the attention of the Senate to a phrase used by  Senator Webster  tonight. 
He said that in all amalgamations there should be secret ballots of the members concerned. Will honourable senators bear that in mind? I hope to show  Senator Webster  and his colleagues on the Government side that they are most hypocritical in their actions and attitudes to secret ballots in the matter of amalgamations of organisations. I will show this so conclusively that even  Senator Webster  will bow his head in shame. 
As to the future, I suggest that there are 3 immediate problems confronting the workers of Australia, firstly, political problems; secondly, economic problems, and thirdly, psychological problems. I suggest that  Senator Webster,  who is endeavouring to interrupt me, should study some aspects of psychology. We have heard  Senator Webster,  a young man, say in this chamber that he would cheerfully hang his fellow man- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)  - I must confess that 1 was not paying attention when the comment was made. If the honourable senator has some objection. I suggest that he raise it after  Senator Milliner  has completed his speech. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - What are the words you claim were said? 
 To save you any embarrassment whatsoever,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  1 will withdraw the words, but 1 will get the quotation and use it on a future occasion in the Senate. It appears to me that this Government cannot learn the lesson that repressive legislation is fruitless. It has been in power for 20-odd years but it still relies on repression to try to intimidate the workers of Australia. What has been the history of governments which have tried to introduce repressive legislation? What is the situation in 
Queensland? There fs legislation in Queensland of a similar character to this Bill, dealing with secret ballots and so on. Has it had any effect? What was the biggest industrial dispute in Queensland for many years? It was the Mount Isa dispute, which was brought about by repressive provisions in the Queensland Act. Did the workers take any notice of them? Did the Queensland Government act against the workers? Of course it did. It brought in emergency powers. What did the workers say of those emergency powers? They took as much notice of them as they did of the Act itself. The Government is forcing workers into the position of ignoring and condemning the laws of the land. This is not the fault of the workers; it is the Government's fault for bringing in repressive legislation, as it is trying to do by introducing this Bill. 
History has shown that sanctions merely add Barnes to the fire. That will always be the case. Anybody with any experience in the industrial movement knows that this is so. I can tell the Senate of innumerable occasions when workers, incensed by government action, have not worried about secret ballots or legislation that might have been introduced. They have acted in accordance with their conscience, and they will always do so. Ask senators on the Government side what they would do if they were workers in the sense of the word as we know it and something of this nature happened. 
 Senator Gair  comes in with an inane interjection. He forfeited all right to workers' consideration in 1957. I ask Government members what they would do in circumstances such as those I will now relate. A worker had the misfortune of having to take his brother to a mental asylum one Friday. All his workmates knew this, but the foreman did not. On the Saturday he was under some strain at work, as would be appreciated. The foreman noticed this, but instead of trying to find out what the trouble was, he asked the worker: 'What is wrong with you today. Jack? You appear to be going nuts'. What happened? The worker flattened the foreman. Assuming that honourable senators on the Government side were workers. would they have acted differently? If they have red corpuscles in their blood, would they not have done precisely the same? The employer would not accept that any worker had the right to strike a foreman, so he sacked the worker straight away. What did his workmates do? What would honourable senators on the Government side do if one of their fellow workers was dismissed for something of that nature? The workers concerned walked out, as workers will always walk out over things of that nature. Innumerable matters of other kinds have caused industrial disputes. 
The unions have not had a chance to try to straighten out such disputes. The workers take the initiative. I for one would not blame the workers for taking the initiative and stopping work for the reasons that I have outlined. 
Let us accept that proposition that the Government would want to hold a ballot. Will the Government tell me that, a ballot having been taken, it would accept the decision of the workers? Let us assume a secret ballot was held and 90 per cent of the people concerned voted in favour of stopping work and holding a strike. Will the Government tell me that it would accept that decision and not interfere with the results of the ballot? I make bold to say that the Government would immediately intervene and find some other excuse to put aside that decision arrived at by ballot. 
Listen to the Government Whip. This is the attitude of the Government Whip,  Senator Young.  I recall when Bob Hawke and I were trying to do something with respect to forcing the wishes of the trade union movement on  Senator Young  and his colleagues. He has never stepped denigrating Bob Hawke.  Senator Sim  up there was another. 
 I said to  Senator Sim:  'I will tell you what I will do. I will arrange for Bob Hawke to meet you somewhere. You pick your own subject. You pick your own place. What are you going to do about that?' The honourable senator never said a word. Since then, he has been to Singapore, and he said a few things over there. 
I refer to the economics of the situation. How do Government members think workers feel at the end of each week when they find that the value of their wages has been eroded by higher prices and by the increase in the cost of living? The worker has no control over those matters. But he knows when he arrives home at the end of each week with his pay envelope that his wages will not buy nearly as much as they did a fortnight ago or even a week ago. What is his attitude to life? What must his wife feel about these things? They are fearful of what will happen in the future. 1 ney have no control over the future whatsoever. The Government has control over these things, lt is the Government's duty to see that prices are controlled so that the value of workers' wages will not be eroded. What must the worker do to offset this erosion? He must try to get more money. He must try to get his employer to conciliate. But the Government does not believe in conciliation. This is perfectly obvious from the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  recently in relation to waterside workers and the need for conciliation. They conciliated. But now the Prime Minister denies all the efforts of that conciliatory process which was entered into by the Waterside Workers Federation and the waterfront employers. So do not talk to me about conciliation. The Government wants conciliation only to knock down the worker. It does not want conciliation to enable the worker to lift up his position in life. 
Let us take into consideration the psychological attitude of the worker. No-one will deny that we are living in unusual times and times of stress. When I mention Vietnam immediately there will be catcalls from the other side of the Senate. Honourable senators opposite should not try to kid themselves that Vietnam is not an issue which has caused many problems in this country. The Government has divided families on this issue. The Government is divided on it. J know members of the Liberal Party who strongly oppose Australia's participation in Vietnam. How do honourable members opposite think the worker feels when he knows that overseas firms are taking over Australian industries and that the profit from those firms - the worker has helped to make those profits - are going overseas in the way in which they are today? Has the Government done anything about this situation? lt has done nothing at all. It would not know the psychological effect of these things on the worker and his family. Firms make millions of dollars in profit but the Government allows them to increase the price of their commodities as they like. How must the worker feel when he reads reports in the Press of debates in which it is said that country interests are not worried by the means tests to which he is subjected? Country interests are receiving millions of dollars. This might be justified, but surely the Government must appreciate that the worker considers all of these factors. 
How do honourable senators opposite think the worker feels about the provision in this legislation which seeks to give to conciliation commissioners a wage increase of $4,500 a year? This comes very close to  Senator Webster  because I feel that he will oppose that provision. The worker through his union appears before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and receives a miserable $2 a week increase in the national wage. Yet the Prime Minister of this country introduces and seeks to have passed by this national parliament legislation to give him an increase of $7,000 a year or approximately $140 a week. How must the worker feel about that? The Prime Minister, after the decision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to give the worker an increase of $2 a week in the national wage, gleefully applauds that decision. 
I wish to read a statement made by the Prime Minister's colleague, the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch).  The Minister said: 
In the last 2 years, the Australian economy has experienced a severe bout of wage-cost inflation. 
That is to say nothing about the increase of  SI  40 a week that the Prime Minister wants to give himself. The Minister continued: 
The Government has sought to stem the problem by intervening frequently and vigorously  in  major award hearings before the Commission. 
As a result of these and other measures there are now reasonable hopes of a slowing down in the rate of cost and price inflation during 1972. 
Where is the evidence of this slowing down in the rate of cost and price inflation during 1972? There is no evidence whatsoever. But in these few words we can read that the Minister for Labour and National Service and the Prime Minister are pleased that the worker has received an increase of only $2 a week and that the Government has strenuously and vigorously opposed the worker's receiving any larger increase. How does the Government think that the worker feels about those things? 
My colleague mentions the price of land. Honourable senators know the difficulties that young people face today in buying land on which to build a home of their own. How must a worker feel when he knows that a government sells the natural resources of his State and receives a royalty of 5c a ton on coal and bauxite? What must be the worker's thoughts about his country giving away its natural resources to overseas interests? Surely the worker is entitled to know what is happening. Knowing that the value of his wages are being eroded will have a psychological effect on him as he goes home each week. What does the Government expect the worker to do?  1  know what he will do. He will seek redress through his union or by his own activities on the job to achieve an increase in wages. Let me tell the story of a wharfie who, in the depression years, could not get a job. He walked the town day after day and could not get a job. He told me that he had resolved that when the depression concluded he was going to get his slice of the cake. I said to him: 'What did you do, Phil? How did you get a bigger slice of the cake?' He said: 'I bought a bigger bag'. That is the attitude of the workers. If they are penalised and oppressed they will use their own means to get their way in the end. 
Substantial sections of the community have condemned this legislation for various reasons. I mention the Federal Secretary of the Federated Clerks Union who has been here quite frequently this week. At a recent ACTU meeting he and others in the 
Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations condemned the legislation. I do not want to read it out but it is suggested that  Mr Maynes  may have altered his position when the Government did not proceed with its opposition to some aspects. I remind the Senate that the federal executive of ACSPA carried the following resolution without dissent: 
That (his Federal Executive reaffirms its decision taken at its February-March meeting when it said: 
I will not read the rest of it but it went on trenchantly to criticise this legislation. Let us consider now a branch of the Federated Clerks' Union of Australia. One would not call it a militant union, lt is the north Queensland branch of that Union which has its address in the Hibernian Building, 440 Flinders Street, Townsville, P.O. Box 135. In a letter that branch wrote to the State Secretary of the Australian Labor Party it said: 
Dear  Sir, 
At a meeting of the Branch Council of this Union held on Saturday, 26th February, 1972, I was requested to write to your organisation outlining the attitude of this Union to proposals by the Minister for Labour and National Service,  Mr Lynch,  to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
We won ki also request that our attitude ba conveyed to your Federal Parliamentary Party for their consideration. 
This letter is from the north Queensland branch of the Federated Clerks' Union of Australia, lt is not a militant union. 
It is communist controlled, of course! The resolution is quite a lengthy one extending over 5 paragraphs and I seek leave to incorporate it in Hansard. 
She ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows): 
The Federated Clerks' Union of Australia emphatically rejects the proposals made by the Minister for Labour and National Service for amendment to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act as being discriminatory, unworkable and devoid of the type of improvement to make the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission more effective and acceptable. Such proposals would pose a major threat to the system of conciliation and arbitration and to Unionism generally. 
We reject the proposals which attack the right of trade unionists to organise effectively as being reminiscent of attempts to prevent the growth of trade unions which were unsuccessfully made in the last century. These proposals are similar to the discredited anti-Union so-called 'right-to-work' laws to be found in certain backward States in the USA. 
The proposals outlined in respect to the establishment of procedures which it is claimed will encourage greater conciliation are inefficient and have obviously been made by those who have no more than an academic and impractical understanding of the operation of the Conciliation and Arbitration system. 
We slate that the proposed alterations would inhibit conciliation rather than encourage it. The proposals which allow the Commonwealth Government, which we emphasise is the largest employer in Australia, to interfere with negotiated settlements made by responsible parties to industrial disputes and to allow outside interests to similarly interfere with such settlements is a retrograde step which cannot be supported. 
The proposal to eliminate the right of the  President  of the Commission to include Commissioners assigned to particular industries on Full Benches is also a retrograde step. This will deny such tribunals the benefit of the experience of those with the responsibility for the preservation of good industrial relations in particular industries in the resolution of some industrial disputes. lt is emphasised that the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission has stated time and again that it has regard for the economic consequences of its decisions. The proposal outlined to make this a Statutory requirement will inevitably have the effect of considerably lengthening proceedings which already take far too long to finalise. 
Steps should be taken to shorten the time taken to resolve disputes, not to lengthen it. As an illustration of what can be done to shorten proceedings, we refer to the procedures in the National Wages Cases which have been evolved over the years and which have had the effect of cutting the time to argue such cases from months to weeks. 
This Union calls on the Federal Government to reconsider its statement of intention and to consult with persons who occupy responsible positions in the field of industrial relations and who have had practical experience in resolving complex industrial disputes and to place less emphasis on bureaucratic advisers whose main experience and knowledge has been gained from text books. 
Yours faithfully, 
T. HAUFF 
Branch Secretary 
There are many things which can be said about this legislation. The workers and the unions have always been the targets for these types of attacks. I draw the attention of the Senate  to what we in the industrial movement know as 'Kelly's prayer'. In 1954  Sir Raymond  Kelly, then Chief Judge of the Commonwealth Arbitration Court, made 14 points in all on what he wanted the trade unions to do. These are the attacks on the trade unions which have been going on ever since. He said then: 
Can we agree upon a reduction by, say, 10 per cent per annum of any adjusted basic wage during o period of, say, 3 years? 
He suggested a 10 per cent reduction. I did not hear him say anything about a 10 per cent reduction in the costs which are imposed by this Government. Then he said: 
Can we agree that award margins should stand fixed at present rales for a period of, say, 3 years? 
Does  Senator Hannan  agree with that? Let him say what is wrong with it. There is a pretty good argument against it.  Sir Raymond  Kelly went on: 
Can we agree that 'overtime' for  the  first half hour of 'overtime' on any day or the first four hours of overtime in any week be paid for at ordinary rates . . . 
Does  Senator Hannan  agree with that? Of course he would because he is conservative in his outlook on these things.  Sir Raymond  Kelly continued: 
Can we agree for a period of, say, 3 years to limit our paid holidays . . . 

 Senator Hannan would agree with that one. But I wonder what he would say if somebody wanted to limit his holidays. He would be up in arms. There are many other things contained in 'Kelly's prayer' and I would suggest to honourable senators that they look at it on some occasion. I promised that I would say something to  Senator Webster  which, if he had any honour at all, would make him blush with shame. I refer to the 'Constitution and Rules' of the Liberal Party of Australia which I received quite legitimately by writing to the Party and asking for it. Just listen to some of the grandiose thoughts on freedom in that Party's constitution. Under (d) (iii) the following appears:  freedom of speech, religion and  association. 
But does the Liberal Party give that right in any degree at all to workers who want to amalgamate their associations? No. It wants them to take a secret ballot. Let us look now at what the Liberal Party's constitution says about that. Oh, this is a classic! It says under 5. (g): 
To enter into any arrangement for joint working or co-operation or affiliation with any other party, association, society or body of persons whether incorporated or not incorporated carrying on work or having objects similar to the objects of the Party and to assist and support by pecuniary contributions or otherwise the operations of any, such party, association, society or body- 
And just listen to this -  and to take over upon any terms all or any of the property, undertakings and liabilities of any such party, association, society or body. 
Where are the Liberal Party's secret ballot provisions for affiliation there? This is its document. I would like to table the document when 1 have concluded speaking because it is a classic in hypocrisy. The Liberal Party says that workers cannot band together without having to go through all the processes of a secret ballot although the perpetrators of the legislation now before us do not accept that principle being applied to their own party. The Liberal Party will take over the property of any organisation; it will take over its assets. But it does not give its members the right to a secret vote, lt does not give to the members of the organisation it intends to swallow an opportunity to exercise a vote but it wants the workers who may, for their industrial advantage, have the opportunity to amalgamate to have a secret ballot. Would anyone believe that any body such as the Liberal Party would have the temerity to introduce legislation of this nature? Let us look at some of the things the Minister for Labour and National Service said about this matter when he opened a conference in Melbourne recently - that is where he gets all his riding instructions. He said: 
It is not without a certain amount of irony, let alone the pleasure that it gives me, to bc associated today with the formal opening of the Central Industrial Secretariat which has been established by the Australian Council of Employers Federations and the Associated Chambers of Manufactures and their affiliated State Bodies lo co-ordinate their industrial relations policies. 
The opening of this central body means that two very, powerful and influential employer bodies in this country have seen the benefits to their members of combining together their resources to more effectively undertake their responsibilities in the field of industrial relations. 
What does the Government think the trade unions want to do? Why does it think they want to amalgamate? It is in order to do the very things that the Minister now applauds the Australian Council of Employers Federations for doing. This is the hypocritical stand of the Government on these issues. It encourages and congratulates the employers for doing those things but it denies to the workers that fundamental right. 
Let us now look at the legislation. We have a case in Queensland where the meat industry union with 10,000 members wants to amalgamate with a little union, the bacon employees union, which has about 1,100 members. Both unions have to conduct a ballot among their members to determine whether the meat employees union will accept the members of the other union. What sort of legislation is it that requires that? The unions have to go to the expense of conducting a ballot. Each ballot paper costs approximately 17c. That includes the paper, the printing, the posting out to all the members, the enclosing of a stamped envelope in which to return the vote to the union. All this costs approximately 17c. The 10,000 members of the meat employees union have to meet the cost of that ballot being held to decide whether their union will amalgamate with another which has 1,100 members. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I  desire to address myself only briefly to this motion.  I  believe that had  Senator Rae  known earlier that  Senator McAuliffe  had offered to table the document 
No, that is exactly what  I  am saying.  Senator Wright  is attempting to interject. If he continues to interject on me  I  will give him something for his corner too. 

 - Mr President- 


 - Mr President- 

I would not wish to quarrel with you,  Mr President.  I repeat my belief that had  Senator Rae  known earlier that  Senator McAuliffe  had indicated that he would table the document, he would not have moved the motion that he did. 
You try my patience. I hope that  Senator Wright  will apologise to  Senator McAuliffe  for some of the things he has said tonight.  Mr President,  we are senators who represent our respective States.  Senator McAuliffe  believes that something is wrong in a certain direction in Queensland. Surely nobody can object to his raising the matter in the national Parliament when he has done so for the simple reason that the Queensland State Parliament has not met since November and will not meet again until August. I will leave the matter on that point. I hope that  Senator Wright  will apologise to the Senate and to  Senator McAuliffe  for his objectional remarks. 
My question is addressed to you,  Mr President.  You will recall that on 12th April I directed your attention to the delay in the publication of the Senate Hansard and asked you to use your good offices to have the Government Printer's obsolete machinery replaced with modern equipment, as recommended by the Joint Committee on Publications last year. Have you anything to report to the Senate? 
Who was that? Was that  Mr Lynch? 
Who made that statement about voting? 
What is their constitution? 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service believe that management in industry is sufficiently sensitive to the human problems involved in the introduction of technological change and that management takes sufficient initiative in forestalling industrial relations problems to meet this change? 
I direct my question to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the heated controversy concerning a certain newspaper advertisement which claims the Premier of Queensland is the only leader of quality in the ranks of the coalition governments, both Federal and State? Does the Minister agree with the text of the advertisement, that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  is the Cassius Clay of Australia? 
This afternoon we have heard some very good debating points from the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  and  Senator Carrick.  But debating points do not get down to the real issue of this matter.  Senator Carrick  said: 'Are you game to get up and say that barristers and solicitors should not have been allowed to increase their rates of salary or their charges?' Members of the Opposition accept that challenge, which was addressed to  Senator Cavanagh.  I feel that  Senator Cavanagh  would say precisely what I now say: 'Yes. We would have taken action to do those things.'  Senator Carrick  has addressed the question and I have answered it. He cannot want any more than that. Opposition Senators in the last few days have made many allegations which still have not been answered.  Senator Carrick  has asked a question and it has been answered. I feel sure that had  Senator Cavanagh  had the opportunity to answer he would have done precisely as I have done. 
The Attorney-General said that there are different rates in the respective States. We are aware of the differing rates in the respective States, but the point is that when the trade union movement points out the higher rates that workers receive, for example, in New South Wales - in Sydney in particular - and in Melbourne, compared with the rates of workers in other States, the Attorney-General denies to those workers what he now professes should be their entitlement. He cannot have it both ways. He decries conciliation.  Senator Cavanagh  pointed out what  Senator Wright  said this morning, yet this legislation tries to do entirely the opposite to what  Senator Wright  said should be done. These are exercises in futility. Senators all represent people in the community. Can any honourable senator, in conscience, vote for this particular section of the community to receive this substantial salary increase retrospective to November - a salary increase of 54,400  -  and then go amongst the common people of Australia and say: You have to be satisfied with $2 a week'? Can the Government- 
1 think so, but 1 might be accused of being emotional if I say that. But it was a cruel decision and the Government was party to it because it went into the court and advocated that there should be no substantial increase. Apparently that had some influence on the court as the court awarded an increase of only $2 a week. But it did not award that increase on a retrospective basis. Yet a month or 6 weeks later the Government introduced legislation to provide a salary increase of $4,400 to a section of the community and, what is more, on a retrospective basis. Do members of the trade unions get increases on a retrospective basis? No, they get them on a prospective basis. How does the Government justify its double standards? The Opposition is aware of the disparity between the salary of Commonwealth conciliation commissioners and that of State conciliation commissioners, but it cannot do anything about that. It is up to the Government to control that situation. As I said the other day, it has failed to do so. The Government has failed to make the adjustments necessary to bring this into effect. I repeat that the Opposition believes it is wrong to apply double standards. Therefore it has decided to oppose this clause. But the matter should not rest at that point. The Opposition does not believe in freezing wages and it does not believe In- 
Before I have a chance to advocate anything the cynical Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  rushes in. It is a tragedy that a person who has not the slightest interest in the welfare of the workers should be in charge of a Bill of this nature. He has indicated that that is his attitude all along the line. I hope that the Attorney-General has listened to what I have said and that he will try to act on anything I have said which has any merit m it at all. I repeat that the Opposition is sorry that the actions of the Government have forced it to oppose this clause, but it believes that a consistent attitude should be adopted towards all salary and wage increases in Australia today. What would be wrong in the Government convening an objective meeting of the trade unions, the employers, the white collar unions and, if you like, representatives of the State governments to try to find out precisely where we are going in the future. 
I told  Senator Webster  the other day that I had given away saying unkind things about him, but he should not tempt me any more as I might go back to doing so. The Commonwealth says it does not have the powers to fix prices. I accept that. But if it got together with the State governments they may be able to introduce some level of price justification. That would stop unjustifiable price increases. We could then discuss objectively the entitlement of the workers of Australia to a fair living standard. In fairness to honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber I should say that I do not think that they would agree that $51 or $52 a week is a fair living standard for anybody to receive today. I say that because I know some of them personally and I know that they would not like to see their sons or sons-in-law living on a wage of $51 or $52 a week. I believe that there is an area for conciliation in all these matters. 
I repeat that the Opposition does not believe in wage fixation and it does not believe that there should be a ceiling on salaries, but until such time as the workers get their piece of the wealth of Australia the Opposition will most certainly continue to oppose legislation which seeks to give to people who are in receipt of a salary of $11,000 a year an increase of $4,400 and to make the increase retrospective to 6 months ago. No consideration whatsoever is given to granting retrospectivity to the workers. The courts grant workers only prospective increases. The increases are granted not from the date on which the decision is given but from some future date. Surely none of us here could agree with that sort of discrimination. 
Like my colleagues, I deplore the action of the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  who is apparently supported by his colleagues, in introducing an amendment of this nature in the dying stages of today's debate. I hope and trust that, in the good name of Australia, the Attorney-General will withdraw this amendment. 1 propose to ask the Australian Council of Trade Unions, through the Queensland Trades and Labour Council, to report all these amendments, particularly the affiliation clauses, to the International Labour Organisation. I believe that the Queensland Trades and Labour Council will do as I ask. I will not say anything about whether I think the ACTU will do as I ask. If it does and if the ILO accepts its own decision, the ILO will condemn the Bill out of hand. This despicable amendment will bring the wrath of the International Labour Organisation on Australia. So we are not voting as Liberal senators, as Democratic Labor Party senators or as Australian Labor Party senators. We are voting as Australians. 
I know not the purpose of the amendment. Nobody knows. Is it fair that we should be asked to deal with an amendment, the intention of which is not made clear? 
If I am filibustering, the Temporary  Chairman  will advise me accordingly. I take no notice of inane interjections by stupid people who would not have the faintest idea of the work of the trade union movement. I refer to  Senator Webster.  I know that 2 amalgamation proceedings are going on in Queensland at present. I will tell the Committee of those. The first is the proposed amalgamation of the Bacon Employees Union, a State registered union, not federated, with the Australian Meat Industry Employees Union. I do not know any more about it than that. Nobody else does. Two other organisations are considering amalgamating. I think the legislation is aimed at them. I could be wrong. If it is aimed at them, let me tell the Attorney- 
General that the negotiations have been continuing for 2 years. That is how the interests of the membership of both unions have been protected. Does the Minister challenge me to say how I know that that is so? I know because the union of which I am a member recently amalgamated with another union. It took 3i years to achieve that amalgamation. We did not want any legislation that the Attorney-General might force on the trade unions to guarantee the protection of the unionists in the 2 unions. We knew it was our responsibility to see that they were protected. We do not want him to tell us. He could not tell us. 
At the International Labour Organisation meeting this year 1 30 countries will be represented. If the Attorney-General wants to save face for Australia he will most certainly withdraw the amendment. The legislation is bad enough but this proposal relating to retrospectivity will affect negotiations that unions have been engaged in for some time - negotiations for one purpose only, namely, to ensure that all members of the respective unions will be protected. I say to the Attorney-General that he has not the slightest regard for the trade union movement or, indeed, for Australia. I ask him sincerely to withdraw the legislation. If he does not do so he will be condemned, and rightly so, in the eyes of the International Labour Organisation. 
-I am sorry that the motion declaring the Bill an urgency Bill has been moved because I believe that such a motion was completely unnecessary.I believe that the extravagant words used by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  were equally unnecessary. If we would reflect for one moment we would see that what he has been doing is casting reflections upon the  Chairman  of Committees and the  President  of the Senate. He said that there has been filibustering. If that were so,  Mr Chairman,  it would have been your responsibility and the responsibility of the  President  to prevent such action. The AttorneyGeneral could have taken a point of order if he thought that such were the case, but he did not do so. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. The Postmaster-General is reported to have stated that there was no doubt that some areas of poor reception would have even greater problems when colour television was introduced than they do now with black and white reception. Will the Minister publicise the areas he believes will be so affected so that prospective owners of colour television sets will be aware of the difficulties they may encounter? 
I deplore the whole of this clause, but I want to address myself particularly to the amendment moved by the Attorney General  (Senator Greenwood).  Does he realise the objects of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act? They are set out in section 2 of the parent Act. The section reads: 
The chief objects of this Act are - 
to promote goodwill in industry; 
to encourage conciliation with a view to amicable agreement, thereby preventing and settling industrial disputes; 
With the greatest respect, I suggest that what the Attorney-General is doing is trying to impose legislation which is contrary to the objectives of the Act. Let me refer to the amendment. Workers on the job are required to try to live in peace. This is impossible under existing 'circumstances. Nevertheless, all workers strive to achieve that objective. Surely there 'must be some understanding of the powers of the legislation under which they work. I do not want to quarrel with the Attorney-General on this point, but I think he will concede that he, as a man of law, holds a view that the amendment is not retrospective. On the other hand I think he will concede that  Senator Murphy,  who is at least equally skilled in law, says that it is retrospective. If these 2 men cannot agree on the wording of something, how could one possibly expect workers on the job, secretaries of trade unions or secretaries of employers organisations to agree on the interpretation of the amendment whichtheAttorney General has submitted.I think the AttorneyGeneral would agree that it -would be a sheer impossibility. If legally minded people cannot reach agreement, how could one expect others who are not skilled in the law to reach that agreement? 
I do not know of anything that bugs the workers on the job more than litigation on an aspect of their livelihood. I illustrate that point by instancing one occasion I can recall on which the court was asked to decide an issue. The advocates argued for 2 days and then found that the prosecution had been laid under the wrong section of the Act. You should have' heard the remarks of the trade unions in relation to conciliation when that happened. Exactly the same thing could happen in relation to this legislation. I shall give what the workers understand as retrospective. If the court gives a decision in relation to their wages and if the court says that the wages shall operate as from 1st January 1972, the workers say that is retrospective. I agree with that. But if it says that the wage increases shall operate from 1st August 1972 the workers will regard them as prospective wage increases. 
Surely the Attorney-General appreciates the attitude that people adopt towards retrospective and prospective dates. I know that the Attorney-General will get up and say that in this case a retrospective date is not involved, but I repeat that men of equal standing in law in the community say that it is. Consequently someone has to be right and someone has to be wrong. The matter will have to go for decision to another set of lawyers, barristers, solicitors, Queen's counsel and what-have-you and they will differ in their views. 
It may finish up in the Privy Council. Apparently what was said in the other place by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  has no bearing on the consideration of the Attorney-General, who is in charge of the passage of this legislation through this chamber. 1 think it is very strange indeed that the Attorney-General should introduce in this place a provision of which the Minister for Labour and National Service, who was in charge of the Bill in the other place, gave no indication whatsoever. It has been suggested that this provision is the result of a fit of pique on the part of the Attorney-General. All I can say is that he is a fairly provocative Minister and that if he continues in this manner we will have more difficulty with him. 
Reference was made by  Senator Cavanagh  to the amalgamation proceedings that have been embarked upon by his union with the Building Workers Industrial Union. I wish to confirm what  Senator Cavanagh  has said. I was on the outside, shall I say, looking in. My colleagues and 1 in the Printing and Kindred Industries 
Union have been through negotiation proceedings. I ask the Attorney-General: Has he ever found any amalgamation proceedings that were done any more effectively, honestly and in the interests of the workers than were done in those circumstances? I invite him to ask his officers about them. They would know all about them. Those amalgamations had the interests at heart of the members of the unions concerned. I am sure the Attorney-General is not conversant with the trade union movement, otherwise he would not say the things he does say. I notice that he is once again grinning in a cynical fashion. 
 Senator Cavanagh  may say that; I will not. What happened only the other day demonstrated quite forcibly that the Attorney-General is not appreciative of the work of the trade union movement and, in particular, the secretaries and organisers of unions.  Senator Brown,  in addressing himself to the motion for the second reading of the Bill, said to the Attorney-General: "Apparently you have the belief that trade union secretaries sit in their offices in Trades Hall or wherever it may be and just, get on the telephone and bring out all the men on a job'. The Attorney-General did not say yes to that. I wish he had said that. All he did was nod his head in agreement. I submit that there will be ample corroboration of that. 
Yes. The AttorneyGeneral did nod his head. 
The honourable senator should keep out of it. He will be in enough trouble in a minute. 
 I rise simply because I believe that the provisions contained in clause 13 are quite inconsistent with what happens in industry generally and will only confuse people. I repeat that there is nothing worse than people being confused because of unreal provisions in an Act. Take, for instance, proposed new section 18. which reads: 
The Commission is empowered to prevent or settle industrial disputes by conciliation or arbitration. 
I submit that the Commission is restricted in the area of conciliation. I shall illustrate the point, if I may. In certain State awards in Queensland there is provision for a 10- minute rest period morning and afternoon. Let us assume that the 10 girls and a clerk who work in the front office of an establishment enjoy a 10 minutes rest period morning and afternoon under a State award but that the 20 workers in the factory have no provision whatsoever for a rest period morning or afternoon. They feel a bit disgruntled about that. As they are the ones who produce the goods in the establishment it is hardly fair that they should be prevented from having a rest period. Let us assume that they cause an industrial dispute. They do not stop work but they advise their union and it goes through all the processes of advising the court and a conference is convened. Notwithstanding the fact that the conciliation commissioner had every sympathy for those workers he could not do anything at all about the matter because if he did he would be interfering with the standard 40- hour working week. He might say to the parties: 'It would probably be better if I were to retire from the conference and you were to work it out between yourselves'. The employer through his representative and the employees through their union representative could work it out between them and reach agreement that the workers should have a 10-minute rest period morning and afternoon. But such an agreement could still be denied by the very provisions of this legislation. It could not be registered as an agreement because anybody could intervene. 
Let us take the isolated instance - I have witnessed this actually happen - of an agreement being made with an employer on standard working conditions in his establishment. Then the employers' representatives hear about it and they come down on the employer and say: 'You are not to make an agreement with the union in that respect.' Consequently the employer gives way and accedes to the request of his organisation. A further dispute is created. These things actually happen in industry and I submit with respect that this provision does not assist in that direction. If there is a dispute without actually stopping work followed by a conference at which an agreement is reached which interferes with the standard working week, it cannot be registered because there will be an appeal against it. Alternatively, if it is registered, as  Senator Cavanagh  has said, anybody at all can seek to intervene to appeal against the decision. I think it is a most unfair way of working and requires additional examination. 
I also raise a point about the fairly substantial fine of $1,000 which may be inflicted. With respect, I am opposed to fines being imposed at any time under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, but I think it is most unfair to impose a fine of $1,000 on a person for an offence of this nature. 
I do not care whether it is in the Act or not. 
It is already in the existing Act, but what good does it do? I think it is an insult to the Commission. The proposed new section 19 provides: 
Each member of the Commission shall keep himself acquainted with industrial affairs and conditions. 
I know what I would do if I was a commissioner and had that placed in front of me. I would say: 'Do you not think that I can do my work? Do you not think that it would be in my own interest to keep myself abreast?' 
I know it is. If the Minister would listen to the debate instead of talking to his cronies he would know that I said it is in the Act. I repeat, notwithstanding the interjection of the Minister, that I am opposed to a fine of $1,000 for an offence of this nature. 
I have a small point which I would like the Attorney-General to clear up. It concers some words which appear in the third line of proposed new section 145&lt;l.)(b) as follow: 
. before the resignation is to take effect . . . 
Perhaps the Attorney-General might give the interpretation of the words 'before the resignation is to take effect'. Does this refer to the date the resignation is submitted? Is it the date on which the union accepts the resignation at a monthly meeting or something of that nature? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. I refer to the release of a document this morning by the Minister for Civil Aviation and the Minister for Education and Science. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the collaboration between the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the Department of Civil Aviation on the development of a sophisticated aircraft landing system embraces any attempt to allow planes to land or take off on runways that are at present established, so that we will not have to go through the process of increasing the length of runways? 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister for Civil Aviation suplementary to my earlier question. Did the Minister in his reply to me earlier this morning indicate a possibility that discussions between his Department and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Qrganisation could mean that it would be unnecessary to extend the length of existing runways? If so, will he now consider suspending the extension of the runways at Brisbane Airport because that work is causing a lot of inconvenience to people residing in the area? 
I will not detain the Senate long because this Bill has been canvassed quite extensively. As a Queenslander I am proud that the Australian Institute of Marine Science laboratory is to be built in Townsville; but as an Australian  I  am even more proud that legislation of this nature is being introduced into the national Parliament. lt is a fine tribute to Australia that we are doing something of this nature to assist not only ourselves but also marine scientists throughout the world. That is my contribution on that aspect of the legislation. 
There are one or two points in the second reading speech of the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  who represents the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  which require some examination. In the first place the Interim Council reported in July 1971 and made some fairly substantial recommendations. In particular, it recommended that early consideration be given to the appointment of a Director. I read now from the second reading speech of the Minister, as recorded on page 1903 of Hansard of 23rd May 1972. The Minister said: 
I turn now to the duties and responsibilities of the Director of the Institute. In order to develop the Institute into a first class research institution, the first important task of the Council will be to seek, on a world-wide basis, applications for the position of Director and to select an individual of high scientific stature. 
The Minister will recall that I discussed this point quite extensively in Estimates Committee C and asked whether we could not rind in Australia someone who would be able to do this job. I come back now to the report of the Interim Council which said in July 1971 that as an early requirement, we .should seek the services of someone to fill the position of Director. I take the point up with the Minister and say that had the Interim Council's recommendation been acted upon al that time it would have given us some start on the whole project. It may have given us the opportunity to select the best Australian available for this position and to send him overseas to study some of the requirements of the position of Director. In that direction the Government has failed to lake sufficient notice of the Interim Council's report. 
I note that this project will cost $8m over 5 years. That is not a particularly substantial amount of money. I inject into the discussion the amount that has been spend on the Vietnam war - $465m - so that we may realise what a costly exercise the war in Vietnam has been. Had we not been engaged in that turmoil we most certainly would have been able to build substantially more research laboratories than we are building at the present time. 
 The amount was $465m. 1 close on the note on which I commenced: I am proud that this Bill has been introduced into the national Parliament. I hope that the venture will be successful and to the advantage of all mankind. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that workers' and employers' representatives at this year's meeting of the International Labour Organisation to be held in Geneva are to receive a sum of $20 a day allowance whilst attending the conference. 
Would the Minister investigate this matter with a view to allowing a daily allowance considerably in excess of the $20 a day so that delegates will be able to live in a manner which would be expected of representatives of the Australian Government. 

 Senator WRIGHT- The Minister for Labour and National Service has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Workers' and employers' representatives at the International Labour Conference in Geneva this year receive a daily allowance of 125 Swiss Francs (approximately $A27). This rate was determined recently. 
See answer to (1). 
Will the Minister for Air report to the Senate details of the use of VIP aircraft during the past 12 months? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Does the Minister consider that industrial management is sufficiently sensitive to the human problems associated with technological change and whether sufficient initiative is shown in forestalling industrial relations problems that accompany or follow such changes? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior been drawn to the success achieved by the proprietor of the Canberra abattoir in re-establishing the abattoir to a high standard, notwithstanding the successful attempts by the Government to allow the abattoir to deteriorate to such a state that the highest medical authority in the Australian Capital Territory condemned the hygiene standards at the abattoir as being nil? In view of the success achieved in re-establishing the abattoir to its present satisfactory standard, does the Government now express regret to the Senate because of its failure to appoint Government representatives to the select committe appointed by the Senate to examine all aspects associated with the attempt to close the Canberra abattoir which, if effected, would have been to the detriment of the community in the Australian Capital Territory? 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service indicate whether the Government will approve of the arrangements for working hours advanced by the Tourist Bureau representatives so that employees in that industry will be asked to work less than the standard 120 hours in a 3-week period? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service whether it would be possible for the Minister to obtain a copy of the address recently delivered by  Mr G.  Polites. Director of the Employers' Federation Council Executive, to the Australian Capital Territory Industrial Society, wherein he is reported to have said: 'Work hours would gradually decrease and wages gradually increase'. In view of the fact that  Mr Polites  is reported to have made other progressive statements in his address, will the Minister accede to the request to endeavour to obtain a copy of the address and table it for the information of honourable senators? 
 I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Will the Treasurer give favourable consideration to making retrospective to 1st July 1972 the increased age, invalid and repatriation entitlements set out in the 1972 Budget? If the Treasurer will not accede to the request, will he make known the reasons which prevent such legislative action? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Air. I draw the Minister's attention to an entry in the VIP aircraft manifests tabled last week relating to a flight from Canberra to Perth and return that was made on 18th May 1971. Can the Minister say whether the purpose of that flight was so that the VIP in question could visit his dentist in Perth? If the answer is in the affirmative, does the Minister consider this an appropriate reason to authorise the use of a BACIII VIP aircraft, which is the most expensive aircraft in the VIP fleet? If the answer is in the negative, will the Minister explain the reason for the use of a BACIII for the purpose of a visit to Perth and return to Canberra on the same day? In addition, is the Minister in a position to assure the Senate that no commercial flights were available to the Ministers and their fellow passengers who travelled from Canberra to Sydney and return on the same day? 
Will the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Health investigate the announcement by the head of the Chemistry Department at the University of Tasmania that he has developed a lead-free petrol which gives improved vehicle performance? In view of the poisonous contribution by leaded petrol to air pollution will the Minister ensure that if Professor Bloom's announcement is correct steps will be taken to ban lead from petrol in Australia? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing either the Minister for Defence or the Minister for the Interior. Does the possibility exist that the installation of the Omega navigational system may form part of a nuclear attack system? If such a possibility does exist, will the Minister first obtain the approval of the people of Australia before proceeding with such installation? 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Interior by saying that it arises from the political question asked him by  Senator Young.  Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the ex-Prime Minister's criticisms of the  President  of the Queensland branch of the Liberal Party in which  Mr Gorton  claims that this gentleman,  Mr Eric  Robinson, is unfit to be a candidate for election to the Commonwealth Parliament? Will the Minister investigate this claim made by  Mr Gorton  to find out whether such accusations warrant determination of whether the  President  of the Queensland branch of the Liberal Party is a fit and proper person to be a candidate for election to the Commonwealth Parliament? 
 Mr President,  I had no intention whatsoever of entering this debate tonight until I heard the complete hypocrisy of  Senator Carrick  and  Senator Hannan. 
Complete hypocrisy, I repeat- 
Well, I substitute the words 'political poppycock',  Mr President.  To my way of thinking that indicates that the honourable senator is not only hypocritical, but also stupid- 
 In deference to your ruling,  Mr President,  I accept your words of wisdom entirely. But I do say that if we are to be subjected to such stupidities as have been raised tonight we are entitled to ask why members of the Government are saying these things.  Senator Carrick  in all his purity said that the Liberal Party had encouraged migrants to enter into its scheme of things. He said: 'We did not ask them to join'. Of course the Liberal Party did not ask them to join. But it did everything possible to influence these migrants to vote for the Liberal Party. The minds of these migrants who came within the sphere of influence of the Liberal Party were poisoned against the Labor Party. The Liberal Party is still doing this. Let there be no question about that. I challenge  Senator Carrick  to say that on no occasion did he discuss politics with these migrants. The honourable senator holds his hands up as though he is pure. I say that every political party has endeavoured to assist migrants. Do members of the Liberal Party think that they are the only ones who have done this? If they say this, they know that it is untrue. 
The honourable senator implied it. In fact, if his halo had slipped it would have choked him. That is not the right attitude. How does  Senator Carrick  justify his attitude of introducing international communism into this serious debate? Yesterday he even brought in the painters and dockers. What in the name of hades have the painters and dockers to do with the fact that people have almost lost their lives as a result of these bombings? 
 I charge the honourable senator with not having raised this matter in the Senate or elsewhere until such time as this debate began. I do not want to be objectionable - not much! - but I think I could charge the honourable senator with failure to report to the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  things that he knows, or thinks he knows, about the painters and dockers. He failed to do so and therefore I do not think he is a very good citizen. How can the honourable senator justify dragging these elements into this debate? Why does he not denounce the Premier of Queensland who says that the Australian Labor Party is responsible for the bombings? The Premier of Queensland is  Mr Bjelke-Petersen. 
 He may be a nut; I do not know. I am not calling him that. I am saying that, if  Senator Carrick  is fair dinkum in saying that he does not think we are responsible for this, why does he not condemn one of his own people for saying that we are responsible for it? The honourable senator would not do this because he likes to try to besmirch the Australian Labor Party. However, the Australian Labor Party will rise superior to any of the tyrannical words he has used tonight. It will rise above any of his unfounded criticisms. 

 Senator Hannan bought into this debate, and what did he say? He said that all migrants who come to Australia were from Iron Curtain countries - from communist countries. When challenged he said that hundreds of them came from such places. How many migrants have come to Australia? I have spoken to more migrants in Australia in a week than the honourable senator has spoken to in 5 years. I know many of the migrants who have come here. The grinning hyena, the AttorneyGeneral, now comes into these proceedings with his stupid inane laugh. He is the bloke who dumped the previous Prime Minister. He sold his vote for a portfolio.  Senator Hannan  can meet me anywhere he likes and I will take him to more migrants who came to Australia voluntarily than he can say came here under duress. I suggest that  Senator Hannan  should not make such stupid statements in future. 
All that  Senator Webster  can see is a com under every chair. He buts in with interjections about communism. What in the name of goodness has communism to do with the fact that the Attorney-General and his officers have failed to arrest the people responsible for these bombings? The Attorney-General knows quite well that the Communist Party headquarters in Queensland were bombed some time ago. 
 They should have been burned down years ago. A culprit was soon found for that crime. If I am not tralian Labor Party for the expose it has Surely the Attorney-General must admit that the people of Australia are particularly frightened at this time. We in this chamber are frightened, as is shown by the improved security arrangements that have been made. I applaud the Presiding Officers for taking these precautions. But this is an indication that these things can spread. We believe that there should be an inquiry into the whole matter. The Prime Minister has said that he would be agreeable to having a royal commission. Surely if your own Prime Minister has said that there is some justification for it. But the AttorneyGeneral has said: 'No, we will not have any part of that.' We are concerned. We do not charge any member of the Liberal Party with being a party to these troubles. I hope that no-one on the other side of the chamber will have the audacity to say that we on this side of the chamber are responsible. I hope that the AttorneyGeneral will denounce the Premier of Queensland who has said - not suggested - that members of the Australian Labor Party are responsible for the bomb outrages. Even at this late stage I ask the Attorney-General to see that a royal commission or something of that nature is instituted so that the people of Australia can feel reasonably sure that nothing of the nature of these events will occur again. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Health. I remind the Minister of a question asked by  Senator Devitt  on Tuesday about what he called 'those ridiculous advertisements on smoking'. Is the Minister aware of the comments made yesterday by  Mr R.  R. Walker in his authoritative column in the 'Age' on advertising in which he strongly criticised the quality and effectiveness of the anti-smoking advertisements? Will the Minister urgently review the anti-smoking advertisements so that public money will not be squandered on an inferior and ineffective advertising campaign? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry: Can the Minister give any assurances that the printing industry, being Australia's fourth biggest manufacturing industry, will not suffer as a result of any damaging changes to protection following the conclusion of the current '1,000 items' review by the Tariff Board? 
Like the vast majority of senators, I suppose, I regret that this matter has reached the stage it has. I am not defending  Senator Keeffe  merely because he is a member on our side of the chamber. I am defending the situation. If we are to carry on in this direction and take points of order against words which would ordinarily be regarded as commonplace, then we are going to play tiddleywinks 
 Senator Davidson  has objected to what I am saying. I could have objected recently to what  Senator Davidson  said about an interjection by  Senator Cavanagh.  However, I believe, and the Leader of the Government in the Senate has said it time and time again, that there is political thrust in this game and we must accept it as such. I am sure I would not be on my feet at this juncture if I thought that  Senator Keeffe  had implied that the- 
If any objection is taken to a decision of the  Chairman  of Committees, such objection must be stated at once in writing. The  Chairman  shall thereupon leave the Chair, and the Senate resume. The matter having been laid before the  President,  and senators having addressed themselves thereto, shall be disposed of; and the proceedings in Committee shall be resumed where they were interrupted. 
I merely draw attention to this Standing Order. I ask whether the Standing Order has been complied with and suggest that  Senator McClelland  should be required to put his objection in writing and present it to you. 
I repeat that 1 am not trying to defend anybody who may have suggested that a Minister was immoral. But when one talks in terms of politics, 
I think it is slightly different when one talks of a Minister being politically immoral. But if they are the words to which honourable senators on the Government side have raised objection, then let me tell the Senate what the Temporary  Chairman  of Committees himself ruled. This is not what  Senator Keeffe  said and not what the  President  said but what the Temporary  Chairman  of Committees said: The Temporary  Chairman  pointed out that  Senator Cotton  was not the Minister responsible for the Bill but was only representing, as a member of the Government, the Minister in another place. That was the Temporary Chairman's ruling. I have taken his words down and 1 would say they are 99.9 per cent correct. In those circumstances  Senator Keeffe  was not suggesting that the Minister was politically immoral in the sense that he was politically dishonest. 
Who laughed? 
You did? 
All right. If people are going to raise objections to what I say, then 1 think they should have clean hands themselves. I just question whether  Senator Sim  has clean hands to raise objection to what I say. I repeat that if we are going to take away the licence to say in this chamber words in that direction, that the Government is politically immoral, then I. suggest - and I do not pretend to be a member of the legal fraternity - that every day in the week legal action could be taken by members of the Government against individuals who say that the Government is politically immoral, and even worse. I believe that the point taken by  Senator McClelland  should be sustained and that the Temporary Chairman's ruling be disagreed with. 

 Senator MURPHY (New South WalesLeader of the Opposition) I regret that I was not present during the earlier proceedings; I came in only a little while ago. But I have endeavoured to obtain the drift of what occurred in the chamber so that I may assist you,  Mr President,  in this matter. It seems to me there is a difference of opinion as to whether the honourable senator, in making some remark, referred to the Government as doing something which was politically immoral or referred specifically to an individual - that is, the Minister - and accused the Minister of being politically immoral, which might involve a personal reflection upon the Minister. It would seem to me that if what the honourable senator intended to say was an allegation in general terms against the Government of political immorality, then that kind of thing is being said day by day. 
I second the amendment moved by  Senator Wilkinson.  I believe that it represents the correct approach to this problem. Let me put the position this way: If the first amendment is carried, it could be that the Senate will discuss subsequently whether death duties or estate duties should be abolished. Then the Government would have the Committee which it appointed coming in with another report- 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it a fact that recently  Mr Gorton  described the  President  of the Liberal Party in Queensland as one who is not a fit and proper person to nominate as a candidate for the national Parliament? Is he now aware of the statement of  Mr R.  Heinze, M.L.A., a member of the Country Party in the Queensland Parliament, inviting  Mr Gorton  to campaign actively in Queensland against the  President  of the Liberal Party in Queensland and to support the Country Party candidate in the Division of Mcpherson? Are these statements indicative of the deepening of the divisions in the ranks of the Country Party and the Liberal Party coalition? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- In view of what was said earlier, the way in which questions are answered is entirely within the discretion of the Minister. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIn view of what happened earlier I submit that the question is out of order. 
Has the Minister  representing the Minister for the Interior been made aware of the contents of a circular addressed to honourable senators which is headed: 'Keyboard Action Group'? Will the Minister examine the contents of such a circular which claims that female employees in the Commonwealth Public Service performing the work of typists, secretaries, accounting machinists, etc., are in receipt of a lower wage than clerical assistants who, it is claimed, are not as highly skilled as members of the Keyboard Action Group? Will the Minister indicate whether such a statement is correct? If so, will he immediately call a conference with the object of effecting comparative wage justice? 
Is the Minister for Civil Aviation aware of the disquiet among pilots of aeroplanes using Archerfield Aerodrome, Brisbane, at the prospect of alterations to runways? Can the Minister indicate what steps are to be taken to resolve the differences of opinion between such operators and the Department of Civil Aviation? 
Today we have witnessed one of the most amazing situations that we could ever see in a Commonwealth Parliament.  Senator Webster  has taken the Government to task in no uncertain manner. He has criticised all aspects of this deal involving the supply of pipe for the Moomba to Sydney pipeline. He has said in effect that the tender has been let because the Japanese corporation has been able to tender successfully in competition with Australian firms. That was the tenor of his remarks when speaking to the motion. Yet when he reached the final part of his speech he said that he could not support the motion. Then he addressed himself to the amendment and found everything wrong with that. Again he trenchantly criticised the Government. In one part of his remarks he said that the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  had not answered his questions. Honourable senators will recall that the Minister replied: 'Why do you not address the questions to your own Leader?' There seems to be some division among honourable senators opposite as to who is handling this matter, whether it is the Minister for Civil Aviation, the Liberal Party or the Country Party. 

 Senator Webster must know what the position is because the Minister told him that he would not be given any answers. The Minister said: 'I am not going into this; this is a contract between private industry and the Government is not going into it at all'.  Senator Webster  is pleading with a government which already has said that it will do nothing about the situation. Although the honourable senator's criticism of the Government may be valid and justified, I submit with respect that he has to make up his mind whether he intends to support the motion proposed by the Democratic Labor Party or the amendment moved by the Australian Labor Party. Both Parties, irrespective of the way we approach the matter, want to do something to correct what has happened in the past and to ensure that nothing of that nature will happen in the future. What is the honourable senator's criticism of Labor's amendment to the DLP motion? He says that it is inappropriate to refer the matter to a committee and that the committee to which we suggested that it should be referred is already overloaded with work. I should like to know what committee is not overloaded with work. Yet only the other day the honourable senator supported a proposition to refer a matter to a committee. 
If the honourable senator does not accept a decision that was arrived at unanimously in the Senate he is saying, in effect, that he is the only one in step and that all other honourable senators are out of step. Let me remind the honourable senator that he accepted and voted for a proposition that children in neglected and isolated areas should be the subject of a Senate committee report. 
The honourable senator did that. I happen to be a member of a committee of which  Senator Davidson  is the  Chairman.  There could not be any committee that has a heavier work load than that one at the present time. 
I am not playing politics on this matter. I know why  Senator Webster  has acted in this way. He flays the Government. He says that the Government is wrong, that it is doing this and it is dong that, so that he can then go out to his constituents and say: 'Look what 1 said about the Government. I protected your interests in the Senate'. But then he fails to show them how he voted on the actual proposition. 
Good. Congratulations. Come a step further and give further support by doing something that will protect their interests in the future. But no, the honourable senator is not going to do that. All he is going to do is to say to those people to whom he has referred: Look what I did for you. Gee, I spoke well for your people'. But when it comes to the crunch, we know where the honourable senator will go. 
It is not remarkable that  Senator Webster  based his criticism on the fact that the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade is overworked. Let me read the names of the personnel of that Committee. The  Chairman  is  Senator Prowse  and the other members of the Committee are Senators Durack, Kane, Lillico, Primmer. Wilkinson, Wriedt and Young. Not one of those senators has risen and said: 'Do not give this reference to us. We have too much work; do not give it to us'. Yet  Senator Webster,  in trying to put something on paper as to why he will not allow the Labor Party's motion to go any further, uses that insignificant, and if I may say so. absurd excuse. The situation is that we believe that, as  Senator Webster  has agreed, we should do something to protect Australian industry in the future. I go along 100 per cent with honourable senators who have said that Australian industry and Australian workers should be protected in the future. Surely no-one would disagree with that proposition. But when we say that we should set up a com- mittee to ensure that this will be done we find that the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  apparently acting on behalf of the Government - and I do not think that I am mistaken - says: 'No, we cannot accept that because it may offend some section of the Constitution'. 
I see; it may only present a problem. Just where are we going in government when a Minister says that something may present a problem? Are we ever to reach finality if we are to hide behind an excuse that we may offend something if we set up a committee? 
Well, the situation is that again the Minister comes back with the same excuse - that the legal fraternity may have something to do with it. People in Australia are human beings. They do not all belong to the legal fraternity. I say without fear of contradiction that people throughout Australia were disgusted with the attitude of the Government when it failed to interfere with the contract between the natural gas corporation and the Japanese corporation. That is over and done with. Maybe the agreement will not be consummated; we do not know.  Senator Webster  says that it is still in abeyance. What we say is: Ensure for the future that something of this nature does not happen again. If the honourable senator votes against the amendment proposed by  Senator O'Byrne  then I submit that he is not concerned with the future of Australia, Australian industry and Australian workers. 
I rise to support  Senator Negus's  amendment. I hope that honourable senators will come back to the issue before the Senate. It is that hardship is imposed by probate duties on some citizens of Australia in the event of an untimely death. That is all honourable senators are asked to debate.  Senator Negus  has moved this amendment in all seriousness and the Australian Labor Party supports him. Surely that is not unusual because we are the humanitarian Party. There are honourable senators who sit opposite who hold a contrary view. But that is not the case with honourable senators on this side of the Senate. What has been concerning past debates? I do not think what has been said is of great moment with the exception that  Senator Byrne  accused us indirectly of some sort of deceitfulness. That is not correct. What we said last Thursday night was that the Senate had established this Committee and referred to it for investigation the subject of death duties. We were very sincere in subscribing to the view that the Committee should examine this matter. Apparently, the Senate was of that view because it accepted the proposition. That is the first matter with which I wish to deal. 
The second matter is that the Australian Democratic Labor Party on at least 3 occasions has moved some pious motion for the adoption of some pious resolution that the Senate expresses an opinion that is not worth anything in an administrative sense. I want honourable senators to listen to the amendment moved by the Australian Labor Party last Wednesday night, 11th October 1972. These are the precise words: 
Delete all words after 'Senate', and insert:  is of the opinion that the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations should bring down its report on "the effects of Estate and like duties on the public revenues and the economic circumstances of individuals and communities, and the social consequences of such duties" at an early date'. 
Let me trace what happened as a result of that. The  Chairman  of that Committee, notwithstanding the fact that its inquiries were almost complete, came into the Senate and denied his own Committee. Could anything be more wrong than that? He then said - I remind the Senate of this - as he held up a bundle of papers: 'Here is the evidence to support the case that we should support the DLP'. I challenged him. I said: 'Where is the evidence? What page? Tell us all about it'. He said: Tt is all there'. But he does not do anything about it.  Senator Byrne  now interjects. I repeat that his motion was nothing but a pious effort to try to take away from the Committee, as its  Chairman  did, any value that the Committee had. But we said that the Senate should await the decision of the Committee. I remind the people of Australia that this is an all party committee composed of honourable senators of the Australian Labor Party, the Liberal Party, the Country Party and others. In all probability the Committee would have presented a unanimous recommendation and that in all probability the Senate would have adopted any recommendations it made. 
Of course I would have dissented if I felt that the Committee's recommendations were wrong. Surely I have a right to do that. Surely any member of a committee has a right to dissent as long as he is honest enough to express his honest views. But I suggest that some honourable senators have not any honest views on some matters and would rather hide behind a majority recommendation than come out and express their views as they see a situation. That is begging the question. The Senate set up a committee. The Australian Labor Party in conscience said that we should do nothing about this issue of estate duty until such time as that Committee in which we have expressed our confidence brought in a report. But members of the Government and members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party did not have sufficient confidence in that Standing Committee to accept that it will bring forward an honest report. 
We did nothing of the kind. 
What we voted against was a pious resolution that commenced with the phrase 'in the opinion of the Senate' which, in the vernacular of these people with whom I associate, is not worth a drink of water.  Mr Chairman,  let us not beg the question.  Senator Negus  has moved an amendment which seeks to relieve the hardship imposed on people by estate duties. That is the issue. Govern; ment members said: 'We will not wait for any Standing Committee to bring forward any recommendations. We will make our own decision on these matters. We reject the call by the Australian Labor Party to wait for the report of the Standing Committee.' Now Government members say that we should not do anything about this matter because the suggestion is that this chamber should look at the matter subsequent to receiving the report of that Standing Committee.  Senator Byrne  piously has said: 'We will bring in a Bill in the new Parliament to correct this matter'. 

 - Senator Rae also said that on a previous occasion. I have heard these things said on so many occasions that I say that what is sought are pious resolutions. Let us stick to the facts of life. The facts of life are, as  Senator Negus  has said, that difficulties are experienced by some people in meeting death duties. Id view of the earlier decision of the Government parties and the DLP not to wait for the report of the Standing Committee let us determine whether we have the courage to see if difficulties are being experienced by people in our community and let us vote on that issue alone. Government senators have decided that they should do that. 

 Senator Negus has moved his amendment. Let us find out now who will support people who are in distress. Let us find out whether  Senator Sim,  who on some previous occasion said: T shall vote for the Australian Labor Party amendment when it does such and such', will support us now. If the Australian Labor Party robbed a bank, would the honourable senator wish to come with us to rob that bank? That demonstrates the absurdity of what the honourable senator has said.  Senator Sim  should return to Singapore, where he might find his level and, being thousands of miles away from this Commonwealth, be able to describe people as 'Manchester Jews'. I hope that the Committee will support  Senator Negus,  as  Senator Murphy  has indicated our Party will. I believe that if honourable senators opposite do not do so they are saying that any person in the Commonwealth who does suffer hardship through death duties is not worthy of support. I put it on that plane. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Will the Minister ascertain  ifit  is possible, through Commonwealth legislation,  to  insist that safety helmets sold in Australia bear the Australian Standard decal  of  either E33 (road use)or E43 (competition use). 
If Commonwealth legislation is inappropriate, will the Minister endeavour to have State legislation embrace the principle referred to in (1). 

 Senator COTTON - The Minister for Shipping and Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Legislation  in  all States and the Northern Territory requires protective helmets to  be  worn  by  motorcyclists. For this purpose, Australian Standard E33 is approved as a minimumrequirement. Requirements for protective helmets for motorcycle races are not specified. The Auto Cycle Council  of  Australia is understood to require racing motorcyclists to wear protective helmets of a standard at least equal to Australian Standard E43. 
Steps are currently being taken to introduce legislation for compulsory wearing of protective helmets by motorcyclists in the Australian Capital Territory. 
I support the amendment moved by  Senator Wilkinson.  I believe that we all agree we should do the best we possibly can for all concerned. There is no politics in the matter. There is no politics in whether the amendment should be accepted or rejected. It is a matter of what is best for all concerned. It is in that direction that we submit the amendment. We believe that this will help the industry. Like others we would like to hear arguments against . the amendment, because from what we have heard up to date it certainly does not help the industry to leave the Bill as printed. I repeat that the Opposition - the Australian Labor Party - submits the amendment with the positive thought that this is a new proposition which could assist the industry if our amendment were accepted. In those circumstances I support the amendment moved by  Senator Wilkinson. 
That is not an answer to my question. If employees of the Australian Wool Corporation were paid the appropriate award wage 1, for one, would support them entirely. I do not know whether the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  would do so. I think my question was a fair question. Will they be paid, for the work they do, under the appropriate award? 

 - Senator Little interrupts again. It is useless the Minister saying that if they are not paid the appropriate wage they will go on strike. We do not want them to go on strike. We want them to be paid in accordance with the provisions of the appropriate award. I submit that if the Minister cannot answer that question his advisers are not advising him in accordance with customary practice. 
I second the amendment moved by  Senator Wilkinson.  I point out some of the features of Part III of the Bill. The Bill states: 'Part III. - Wool Marketing.' The side note is: 'Functions of Corporation in relation to wool marketing.' That Part contains no reference to Parliament. I think it is pretty important that Parliament should have some control over this aspect of the proposed new method of marketing. Clause 38 (1.) states: 
The functions of the Corporation include the following functions: - 
to operate a flexible reserve price scheme in respect of wool offered for sale at auction; 
to formulate, and make arrangements with a view to securing the observance of, standards of preparation of wool for submission for sale at auction or otherwise; 
to formulate, and make arrangements with a view to securing the adoption of, terms and conditions governing the acceptance of wool for sale, and the sale of wool, whether at auction or, with the approval of the Minister, otherwise than at auction; 
subject to the next succeeding sub-section, to make arrangements with respect to wool auction sale programmes and the quantities and kinds of wool to be offered at particular auction sales, and for the payment of advances to persons the marketing of whose wool is delayed by reason of such arrangements; 
None of those paragraphs refers to Parliament. The clause continues: 
to make such arrangements as the Corporation thinks appropriate, or to take such other measures as the Minister approves, with a view to securing the avoidance of the offering of small lots of wool for sale at auction as separate lots except in cases where the Corporation considers that the offering of such lots should be permitted for special reasons, and the making up from such wool of lots other than small lots and the marketing of those lots; 
There is nothing in paragraph (e) to indicate that Parliament has any jurisdiction or supervision. The clause continues: 
with the approval of the Minister, to make arrangements with respect to programmes for the sale of wool outside the auction system and the quantities and kinds of wool to be offered at particular sales outside that system; 
to make arrangements for the sale, otherwise than at auction, of wool received by a broker for sale at auction that the Corporation considers cannot advantageously be offered for sale at auction and for the processing of any such wool before sale; 
to encourage the adoption of aids (including the appraisal of wool by objective measurement and the sale of wool by sample) to the efficient marketing of wool; 
None of those paragraphs refers to Parliament. The clause continues: 
to maintain records of persons carrying on the business of purchasing wool from woolgrowers outside the auction system and to obtain from such persons information of such kinds as the Minister approves; 
to keep under constant review the practice of the buying and selling of wool outside the auction system, and to make recommendations to the Minister as to measures for dealing with any detrimental effects that that practice is having in relation to the objects of this Act or the requirements of the next succeeding section and to take such measures as the Minister approves for the purpose of reducing or eliminating those detrimental effects; 
with the approval of the Minister, to participate in negotiations with respect to charges associated with the marketing of wool, including freight rates; 
to co-operate with authorities and organisations in other countries with respect to measures aimed at the more efficient marketing of wool; 
to operate a scheme for the voluntary registration of woolclassers; 
to inquire into (whether alone or in cooperation with other authorities and organisations), and from time to time report to the Minister and to the Australian Wool Industry Conference upon, methods of marketing wool (including any changes in wool marketing procedures that the Corporation considers necessary to enable the Corporation to exercise control over the marketing of all wool produced in Australia) and any other matters connected with the marketing of wool; 
I hope that I have been able to show conclusively that there is nothing in Part III which refers to supervision by Parliament. I think the Committee will agree that clause 38 contains a most important provision and that surely Parliament should have some supervision of any activities of the Corporation. This is precisely, or at least we hope precisely, what the amendment says. 
Will the honourable senator wait until I have finished? The amendment seeks to add the following paragraph:  (oa) to formulate a detailed plan for operation by the Corporation, of a scheme to acquire  and/or market the Australian wool clip and to report this plan to the Parliament within 6 months of the commencement of this Act; 
It goes on further to deal with other subclauses. I say that this amendment is the only proposal through which the Parliament has some say in what the Corporation may do. If it is believed that it is important that Parliament should have the opportunity to supervise what the Corporation does, I believe that the principles enunciated in the amendment should be accepted. Personally, I cannot see where the Committee could have any quarrel with that whatever. However, the Minister may be able to disabuse our minds in regard to this matter. I repeat that this is a most important question. If it is as important as we say - and I believe that the Government would also appreciate its importance - then I say it is relatively more important for Parliament to be assured that it has the supervision of any arrangements that are made by the Corporation. In our book, that cannot be done unless the Government agrees to accept this amendment We propose the amendment in that light. I trust that the Minister will at least try to show us where we are wrong, if he thinks we are. We say that we are right. We say that quite positively, and we put forward the proposition to him and to the Government because we believe that the Parliament should have a say in what shall be the marketing arrangements provided by the Corporation. 
The Minister for Air  (Senator Drake Brackman referred to the appropriate award Will he indicate what the appropriate award is? Under what award will employees of the Australian Wool Corporation be working? 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN (Western Australia - Minister for Air) - I do not know the different categories of workers who will be employed by the Australian Wool Corporation.. I doubt whether my advisers would know those categories. There will be members of various unions - the Federated Storemen and Packers Union of Australia and the Federated Clerks Union of Australia, to name just 2. They will be paid the award wage. 

 Senator MILLINER (Queensland)- Can the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  give the Committee an assurance that the workers will be paid the appropriate award wage as the minimum? 
Does  Senator Little  know what we are talking about? It appears to me that he does not. I repeat my question: Will the Minister give an assurance that workers under a transport award will be paid the award rate? Will the clerks be paid the appropriate award rate? Will the storemen and packers be paid the award rate? That is all I am asking. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN (Western Australia - Minister for Air) - I think the honourable senator should get his feet on the ground. He knows as well as I do that if members of the Transport Workers Union of Australia working for the Australian Wool Corporation were not getting the award rate the Corporation would have a strike on its hands very quickly. 
-I am sorry that the Minister for Air and  Senator Young  cannot see the way that the Opposition is arguing. Our argument is that this amendment will improve the provisions of the Bill. 
How does  Senator Withers  know? He has not been in the chamber for the past three-quarters of an hour. He would not know the first thing about it. I repeat that the intention of the Australian Labor Party is to improve the provisions of the Bill. No honourable senator on the Government side has indicated that to add the words 'or otherwise' proposed in the amendment would destroy the principle of the Bill. It could only assist the provisions of the Bill. 
The Minister has asked: 'How will it be determined what wool is sold at private auction?' That principle is applied throughout the Commonwealth at the present time. When a revaluation of land is carried out by the Valuer-General of each of the States, he takes into consideration what is paid by people in numerous areas of that State. Surely this fact brings into dispute the argument advanced by the Minister. The Minister introduced into the discussion clause 41 (1.) (c).  Senator Little  does not think that that provision enters into the matter at all. But the Minister himself injected this clause into his discussion. Clause 41 (l.)(c) contains these words:  the Corporation, as and when  it  thinks expedient, re-offers for sale at auction, or otherwise disposes of, wool acquired by it under the scheme. 
Surely the Minister contradicts his own argument by referring to the wording of clause 41 (1.) (c) which uses the words: 'or otherwise disposes of. The Corporation can buy the wool from the wool grower and then it may re-offer that wool for sale at auction or may otherwise dispose of it. I think the Minister for Air should accept what the Opposition is saying because we believe that it is in the interests of the industry to do so. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the Report. 
I ask for leave  to continue my remarks at  a  later  stage. 
Leave granted;  debate  adjourned. 
I am sorry that this debate has evolved in the way that it has this morning.  Senator Wilkinson  has given a clear indication that we on this side of the chamber do not wish to debate this amendment further to any great extent. But  Senator Webster  has made provocative statements. He is noted for these provocative statements which in substance have no basis whatsoever.  Senator Webster  is ashamed of his own Party's policy on woo! acquisition. He has to justify that policy by making outrageous statements in the Committee about other political parties.  Hu  criticises the amendment but says, in effect, that the amendment is all right for a period of 6 months only. If the principle of the amendment is sound, surely, in the interests of the people who he is supposed to represent,  Senator Webster  would have moved a further amendment to provide for a period of 12 months or 18 months instead of 6 months. 
In all probability we would have accepted the proposition if the argument had been a sound one. The Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  this morning advanced a number of propositions why the proposal of the acquisition of the wool clip was not acceptable to the Government. The Minister has put to the Senate a number of propositions that will need investigation. Surely, the Minister and his colleagues have had long enough to do this. The Government should have brought forward positive proposals on it and should not need to come into this chamber to make excuses for the inactivity of the Government in this direction. After all is said and done, honourable senators opposite would say that  Sir William  Gunn is an authority in the wool industry. I have heard honourable senators opposite say this on more than one occasion.  Sir William  Gunn and his colleagues have said for years that there should be acquisition of the wool clip. The Opposition must be in good company on this occasion as our view is similar to that. 
It is for the Government to bring forward the policy on what sort of job should be done on the acquisition. It is a matter for  Sir William  Gunn who is one of the Government's main supporters to tell it these things, lt is not for the Opposition to tell the Government. We have indicated what our policy is on this matter. But the Government just cannot brush our policy aside because of what somebody may have said at Launceston or anywhere  else. The fact  remains - and honourable senators opposite know it - that  Dr Rex  Patterson is accepted in all country areas as being the leading authority on rural matters. 
 Senator Sim  laughs. I wonder whether  Senator Sim  has ever been asked to become a member of the World Bank. This is what happened to  Dr Patterson.  I wonder whether any of us here - I do not include  Senator Sim  only - would offer to give up a position in the Public Service which attracts at the present time a salary of twice the amount that  Dr Patterson  is receiving. Surely that indicates to honourable senators that  Dr Patterson  has far greater ability than any honourable senator opposite.  Dr Patterson  would most certainly have far greater ability than  Senator Little,  the Collins Street woolgrower. He most certainly has greater ability in that direction than I would ever have. The Government will not accept the advice of its own authorities, including  Sir William  Gunn, so how can it be expected to accept any advice from the Parliament. I return to what I said last night. This Parliament is being bypassed in this most important issue. The proposition which has been advanced by  Senator Wilkinson  has the ingredients to bring back to the Parliament what is regarded as a most important principle so that the Parliament itself can determine whether this action is in the interests of wool growers and, indeed, the people of Australia. I am sorry that I have spoken again in this debate. I had no intention of doing so but when honourable senators opposite ridicule experts in this field, such as  Dr Patterson,  I wonder just where this Committee is heading.  Senator Maunsell  is now offering advice to  Senator Webster. Senator Maunsell  had better give him some advice as he is abysmally ignorant of the proposition as it stands at the present time. 
I do not propose to speak at length on this legislation, but I feel that it would be wrong if further criticism of the Government for its failure in this field were not voiced. It would be taken, if there were no. criticism, that everybody accepts that the Government has acted as responsibly as it should have. Personally I do not think it has. If honourable senators will reflect for a moment on comments that have been passed in Australia, they will recall having heard of other countries which have had an over-supply of food and have dumped it, burnt it or disposed of it by some other method. Australians have been horrified that this has been the attitude of the governments of those countries. I recall that the European Common Market countries had to abandon some crops that had been grown and that people were horrified that, while others throughout the world were starving, governments which were not sufficiently conscious of their responsibility to people in general were abandoning an over-supply of a commodity which had occurred in their countries. 
We Australians will find ourselves in the same position, and we will find that we are being reported in the London Press as having decided that since we have overproduction of luscious fruit we intend to pull up fruit trees so that we shall not have further over-supply. Goodness me,  Mr Deputy President,  you would know, from your own experience, of institutions in Australia which would love to get hold of some of this fruit which we propose to deny to the people of this country. It is useless for any Government senator to say that the Government has acted responsibly in bringing down this legislation. The Government has known for some time that it would be faced with this situation, and I say with respect that it has done very little about it except to wring its hands and perhaps wait for something to happen. Well, something did not happen. The Government has not chased the markets that were available to it, or at least it has not indicated to us that it has done so. 
The second reading speech of the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  as Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, shows that this scheme will cost the people of Australia $4.6m. That in itself is not a bad figure for wasteful expenditure so that we shall not be able to produce fruit. Surely this should be regarded as criminal. The second reading speech also gives the cost to the Government of trying to bolster up the industry instead of, as was suggested earlier, seeing whether it can secure markets overseas. 
The Minister, in his second reading speech, said this of the S4.6m of which I have already spoken: 
This, of course, is not the only measure to assist the fruit growing industries. The Government has been aware of their difficulties and has provided very substantial funds in recent years to assist them, $13. 8m has been paid out in devaluation compensation, $2.6m has been contributed to stabilisation arrangements for apples and pears and $6. 4m has been advanced to assist certain canneries. In addition a considerable proportion of the fertiliser subsidies has gone to fruit growing. 
So, all in all, about S30m has been contributed and now we are faced with the situation that that $3 Om has been absolutely wasted. With respect, 1 say that the Government has failed. Even if it may not have been able to find export markets, surely there are in Australia people who would welcome any of this fruit being made available to them. 
The Government stands condemned for adopting such a negative and defeatist attitude to a problem which has been well known to it over the years. I recall seeing a television programme) - it may have been This Day Tonight' or 'Four Corners'some 3 years ago on which gruit growers made the Government aware of their problems. That was 3 years ago, but nothing has been done, with the exception that last year the Government advanced to, I think, the Victorian Government a loan of $6.4m to assist canneries in Victoria. I do not know whether  Senator Webster  just criticised that action; I hope he did not. However, I believe it should be placed on record now that this Senate did not oppose that legislation but supported it. I may have misinterpreted  Senator Webster's  comment, but I believe he said that the Senate opposed that legislation. 
Surely when the Government, with all the resources it has at its disposal, is aware that some people will experience difficulties it should go out after markets to ensure that the product which is available is sold; or, as 1 repeat, if it is not sold on export markets, surely it could be made available to good Australians. How can we be certain that in 2 years time we will not be short of the very product we are now destroying? Nobody can say that 2 years hence there will not be a shortage of this fruit. If there is a shortage, we will not be able to cater for it because we will have destroyed the very trees on which we should be relying for production. This  situation  reminds me very much of a letter which a United States senator received from one of his constituents, lt read as follows: 
Dear  Senator, 
OM Ben Smithers just showed me the cheque the Government sent him for not raising hogs. It was for $1,000, because he was not going to raise the 50 hogs he raised last year. Now,  Senator, I've  never been in the hog line myself, having concentrated on beef cattle. It seems I would do better. 1 propose to follow Old Ben's example and not raise hogs next year. Which kind of hogs would it be best not to raise from the Government's point of view? I got a preference for not raising Berkshires but I'd just as soon not raise Razorbacks  if you think that's best. 
I'd like to start out not raising, say, 500 hogs next year because I've got the space to do it and that would mean I could earn $10,000 to which you could add another $1,500 because if I'm not raising that many hogs I won't need to grow feed for them. 
If all goes well next year I guess we could expand the whole operation and maybe old Ben and me could go into partnership not raising a whole lot of things for profit. Oh, by the way, would it be against the national interest if I was to raise, say, 6 hogs just for the family to eat? 
That is a situation that is developing in Australia. I appreciate that it would be regarded as cynicism for any person to say: 'It is better if I do not produce anything, because then I will be paid something; whereas, if I produce something, I will not be paid anything at all'. That would be a cynical attitude, I agree; nevertheless, it is indicative of the feelings of some people. I repeat that people in Australia over the years have expressed keen disappointment and disgust that food has been produced and then wantonly destroyed because of alleged over-production. The Government is doing it in another way on this occasion; it is paying people money to destroy the trees on which the fruit would grow. It is the same experiment but with a slightly different angle to it. In the years to come posterity will judge whether any government which has reached this peculiar and unfortunate position was irresponsible. On that note I say that this Government has been irresponsible in allowing the situation to reach the point it is at today. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
From whom did War Service Homes purchase land at Runcorn, Wishart and Pullenvale, Queensland, and how much was paid for the land in each of the areas. 
Was the land acquired as a result of the activities of the Queensland Branch of War Service Homes. 
What are the names of the officers of War Service Homes who negotiated the purchaseof land. 

 Senator WRIGHT- The Minister for Housing has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Particulars of parcels of land at Runcorn, Wishart and Pullenvale in Queensland acquired for the purposes of the War Service Homes Act are as follows: 
May I ask the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  through you,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  to explain one matter to me? 1 am confused about it. I do not know whether other honourable senators are confused. Is this money paid into the Government department? Does the Government department handle the money at all? 
1 do not want the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  to take what 1 am about to say as an indication that I, or any other senator, wants to quarrel with him in any way. The Minister appears io express surprise. I am not being modest about this. If the Minister wants to fight about it, that is what we will do. 
I am not. The Minister suggested that some of the questions we were asking were unwarranted. I listened to what  Senator Douglas  McClelland said during the hearings of the Estimates Committee and in the chamber today. 1 had only one question to put to the Minister, and that was whether the money was to be handled by the Commonwealth, and the Minister said yes. Therefore 1 claim that our questions are not unwarranted. In my own humble way, I can see that something could quite easily be done that is not 100 per cent according to Hoyle. I am not suggesting for one moment that the Minister, the Government or any of the officers is doing anything suspect. But surely if we think we see a way in which this could happen, then we are entitled to ask a question about it. I will not pursue the matter any further, but in my own way I will try to establish to my satisfaction whether I am right or wrong. Ff I am right f will raise the matter again. I am not suggesting for one moment that there is anything wrong, but I am defending the right of honourable senators to ask questions without being challenged and without having it stated that their questions are unwarranted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Have any approaches been made to the Government by the Government of the German Democratic Republic seeking recognition; if not, will the Minister arrange for a dialogue to be opened with a view to recognising the Government of that country. 

 Senator WRIGHT - The Minister for Foreign Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
The Australian Government has had no discussions with the German Democratic Republic on the question  of  recognition. At the present time negotiations are being conducted by the Federal Republic  of  Germany with the German Democratic Republic with the aim of concluding a General Relations Treaty' to normalise the relationship between the two states. 
Until these negotiations have been successfully concluded the Australian Government does not consider that the time is appropriate to consider the question of recognition of the German Democratic Republic. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will the decision  by  the Government of Queens  land  not  to  introduce daylight saving cause problems  for  Commonwealth Departments; if  so,  what procedures  will be  adopted  to  overcome any problems. 
In directing a question to the Leader of the Government inthe Senate, I refer to the new advertising code of ethics announced earlier this week by the Media Council. Is the Minister aware that the 2 newspaper advertisements recently inserted on behalf of the Liberal Party breached that code of ethics? In particular, the latest advertisement, which quoted  Mr Calwell  as saying, 'It was a wonderful Budget', breached the code of ethics which states: 
Testimonials must honestly reflect the sentiments of the individuals represented. 
The use of unemployment figures for individual States in the first advertisement breached the ethic which states: 
Statistical data quoted in advertisements shall be neither misleading nor irrelevant. 
Finally, can the Minister assure the Senate that future advertisements for the Government parties will not breach the advertising code of ethics? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI think the honourable senator referred to the Media Council. 1 must admit that I am flying blind in relation to that aspect of his question. 1 have not seen the advertisements referred to and am not in a position to give any judgment about them. I would like to be better informed before I comment on the subject matter. I understand that there was some reference to this matter in another place last week but I will have to inform myself on it. 
 It would be a brave man who would oppose legislation of this nature and I do not pretend to be particularly brave in this regard. I cannot for the life of me understand  Senator Lawrie  who said that everything was rosy in Queensland when for the first time in Queensland's history it has had to become a mendicant State. How can he justify his claim? He said that housing could not be provided overnight for the workers of Gladstone. Nobody wanted it overnight. Gladstone has been going for 5 or 6 years and there is still a desperate need for houses for the workers there. I shall not enter into the merits or demerits of the dispute at Gladstone. All I say is that if any government embarks on projects such as the one at Gladstone it is that government's responsibility to see that decent living conditions are provided for workers on the site. I leave this topic now because I believe there are more important things affecting Australia. 1 question where we are going in the matter of finance in Australia. The Queensland Government has sought financial assistance by way of Commonwealth grants. I suppose it justified its claim before the Commonwealth Grants Commission but it amazes me that a government can have the temerity to try to justify a claim for financial assistance when it has recently increased the salaries of State parliamentarians by 10 per cent and in its last Budget provided wage and salary increases for workers throughout Queensland. I do not object to this but the self same government and the Commonwealth Government are forever saying: 'Go to arbitration for wage increases'. I repeat that in the last Budget the State Treasurer introduced legislation to give salary increments to workers in State Government institutions. I have no objection to that because this is what the trade union movement sought but how can a State claim that it is broke when it increases the salaries of its parliamentarians by 10 per cent, not by legislation but by order in council, when it can introduce into its Budget the functions of the industrial court and when, also, it can announce that it will build a new parliament house within the next 5 years at a cost of about $17m? How can that State say that it is broke or potentially broke? 
 I do not know anything about South Australia. It is for the honourable senator to parade the virtues of South Australia. I am telling the Senate what has actually happened in Queensland. I do not know about South Australia. I feel sure that my colleagues will be quite ready to defend the South Australian Government. I turn now to another aspect of Australian finance. Under the present financial system we have Loan Council meetings at which the Commonwealth Government provides money to the respective States. Apparently they all go away quite happy. I know that the Queensland Premier came away from the last Loan Council meeting saying that it was magnificent what Queensland had received from the Commonwealth 
Government. The New South Wales Premier said that he was very satisfied and that it was the best deal he had ever had from the Commonwealth Government. But when the New South Wales State Government introduced its next Budget it cried that it had to budget for a deficiency of Si 5m and so the Commonwealth Government came to the assistance of New South Wales and loaned it SI 5m. I know what will be the effect of that loan. It will be a gift to New South Wales. 1 have in my possession a letter addressed to  Mr Cumming  Thom as Secretary of Senate Estimates Committee A. I will not read it all unless I am challenged. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn  to  the success achieved by the proprietor  of  the Canberra Abattoir in re-establishing the abattoir to a high standard, notwithstanding the Government's permitting the abattoir to deteriorate to such a State that the highest medical authority in the Australian Capital Territory was so condemnatory of the hygiene standards as to describe them as being non-existent. 
In view of the success achieved by the present proprietor in re-establishing a satisfactory hygiene standard at the abattoir, does the Government regret its failure to appoint members to the Senate Select Committee appointed to examine all aspects of the attempt to close the abattoir, which if effected, would have been to the detriment of the community in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Can the Minister for Air advise the Senate of the probable delivery dale to Australia of the Fill aircraft and how much the Treasurer will be paying for those aircraft? 
Clause 14 (1.) provides: 
The Minister may establish a committee, to be known as the Child Care Standards Committee, which shall consist of such number of members as the Minister thinks fit. 
Can the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  indicate why the word 'may' instead of the word 'shall' is used? At present the clause gives to the Minister a discretionary power to establish a committee but I think the whole intention of the Bill is for the establishment of a committee. Can the Attorney-General also indicate what is in the Government's mind on who shall comprise the committee. I take it that that would be included in the regulation. Will the Attorney-General convey to the appropriate quarters the suggestion that it might be to the benefit of the legislation if a representative of the Australian Council of Trade Unions were included on the committee? 1 do not advocate this, but it might be advantageous if a representative of the employers associations were also included. 
There are no politics in the matter. It is a question of who would best serve the interests of the legislation. As the AttorneyGeneral would know, several representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions have had extensive experience overseas in this aspect of employment opportunities. I suppose the same could be said for the employer organisations. I have in mind the recently retired  Mr Bob  Anderson. I know he had a very keen interest in this field. I suggest that if it is acceptable to him he should be a member of the standards committee. He would be an appropriate person to appoint to it. However, that is for other people to advocate. As it represents so many people, I believe that the Australian Council of Trade Unions should have a representative on the committee. 
 What we have heard today from the Democratic Labor Party is indicative of its approach to industrial problems. Its members criticise everything connected with the 
Australian Labor Party. If they looked in a mirror at their images they would realise what they have said today. The DLP said today that if we sought to withdraw the Bill it would support us. That was said after we had declared our intention to support the Bill but to propose amendments. The DLP said subsequently that if any amendment were carried it would injure the workers of Australia because the benefits being conferred by this Bill would be deferred. Let us be honest and sincere about these issues. The DLP will not oppose the Government on any issue whatsoever. It has had its opportunity to do so time and time again but it will not do anything about it. 
 Of course you wish you were as sure as you are of our attitude. The Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  knows that we put up propositions that will be to the advantage of the people of Australia but he knows also that the DLP members will run along with anything that the Government wants, all the way down the line, particularly at this critical time in Australian politics. 
I want to put another point of view to you,  Mr President,  about the, amendments foreshadowed by the Australian Labor Party. It was said by the DLP spokesman that his Party has no knowledge of them. But we have previously put up these propositions to the Parliament and copies of the proposed amendments have been in the hands of honourable senators for a considerable time. The DLP could have devoted its time and energy to studying them. I believe on occasions such as this that machinery could be introduced which would be of advantage to the people of Australia. I refer to the possibility of having all-party committees to consider issues such as this. I do not believe that there is strong disagreement between the parties that the workers of Australia should be protected in their best interests. If we got together, as we do on Senate committees, and determined the issues before us and then brought in recommendations to the Parliament, we would be in a far better position to determine what legislation should go on to the statute book. I am not suggesting for one moment that legislation should be taken out of the hands of the Government. I acknowledge that the Government is responsible for introducing legislation. But surely we could agree on principles. When it comes to the question of quantum of money to be allocated for this purpose, obviously the Government is responsible for making the determination. 
I emphasise my point by referring to clause 8 of the Bill which seeks to amend section 45 of the Act by inserting new subsections after sub-section (2.). I will not read the proposed new sub-sections. They are in the Bill for all to read but I suggest it would take a layman considerable time to determine what is meant by the words contained there. If there were an all-party committee to investigate these things properly we might - although I do not know - be able to express those proposed new subsections in a way which would be more understandable to people. Perhaps the Attorney-General, who is a Q.C., may say that the Bill is easy to read. Well, all right, but one might get some other legal authority who would say that it is not so easy to read. I put forward that point of view quite sincerely because I believe it would be in the interests of all concerned if a procedure of that nature were adopted. 

 Senator Bishop expressed the Australian Labor Party's view on the amendments and I will not canvass those thoughts any more. What I do say to the Government is that I believe it should recognise the trends in industrial affairs, particularly in relation to workers compensation. I do not know of anything more cruel than the treatment of a worker who is injured on the job through no fault of his own and yet is denied a living wage while he is off on compensation. It seems incredible to me that we should still adopt that procedure. If I may say so, courts of this land have decided otherwise. They have decided that workers injured at their employment should not lose because of it. Surely it is an anomaly that a worker who is injured in his employment while doing the best for his employer, for himself and for industry generally and goes on workers compensation should receive a reduced wage when another worker, who may be injured while playing cricket, football, hockey or any thing of that nature over the weekend, receives full pay for the period of his illness consistent with the terms of the award or industrial agreement under which he works. 
If your officers are going to say that this is not so,  Mr Minister,  I will produce plenty of evidence to show that the courts throughout this land have accepted that anyone injured in a sporting activity is entitled to sick pay in accordance with the provisions of the industrial agreement or award under which he works. If the Minister wants that information it is easily and readily available. 
I did nothing of the kind. If I said compensation, I apologise. I meant to say sick pay. I correct my statement if I did say compensation. However, let us forget about injury received during the weekend. A worker who is injured in his employment goes off on a reduced wage, but if he becomes sick while he is in employment he goes off on a full wage. Surely that is an incredible situation and others looking into that system may wonder what it is all about. 
I appeal to the Minister to accept some of the propositions put forward by  Senator Bishop  because I believe it would be in the interests of the community for the proposition to bc accepted. I also ask the Minister to accept that last time when legislation on this measure was before us it was promised - probably vaguely but nevertheless promised - that matters raised by the Australian Council of Trade Unions and trade unions themselves would be considered in the next amendments to the Act. I do not think they have been considered. However, that is water under the bridge. I do say that before there are any further projected amendments to the legislation, irrespective of what government is in office, there should be more consultation between the unions, the employers and the government which is responsible for the measure. I believe that the amendments reflect the wishes of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the vast majority of unions, particularly the views of the Federated Clerks Union which the Australian Democratic Labor Party says is affiliated with its organisation. 
I will not say any more although I could say considerably more. Before concluding my remarks I would like to take up the point on which  Senator Little  concluded when he said that the Labor Party was introducing its amendments for political purposes. On the previous occasion when we did not introduce amendments in order to allow legislation to go through we were charged with neglect of our responsibility to the workers. 
Ah,  Mr Minister,  you and  Senator Wright  did that very thing. Again, that it water under the bridge; 1 will not canvass it any more. 1 ask the Senate to accept the propositions advanced by  Senator Bishop. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Did the Commonwealth brief counsel to appear on its behalf in the 1972 national wage case; if so, what was the extent of such instruction and, in particular, was counsel instructed to (a) support the Australian Council of Trade Unions' application, (b) oppose the Council's application, or (c) provide statistical information for the parties in the case without either indicating support for or opposition to the application. 

 Senator WRIGHT - The Minister for Labour and National Service has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I presume the honourable senatoris not referring to the current National Wage Case, but to the previous case, the decision in which was handed down on 5th May 1972. 
The Commonwealth did brief counsel to appear on its behalf in that case. In accordance with instructions given, counsel opposed the claims by the Australian Council of Trade Unions, but submitted that the Commonwealth was not opposed to some increase in the minimum wage. The reasons for the Commonwealth opposition to the claims are given at pages 338 to 373 of the transcript of the case. Counsel also provided statistical information for the members of the bench and for the parties. 
As it may be inconvenient for the honourable senator to refer to the transcript, 1 shall arrange for a copy of the Commonwealth submission in the case to be sent to the honourable senator. 
My question, which is supplementary to the questions asked by  Senator McManus  and  Senator Greenwood,  is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister. Notwithstanding that the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts is charged with the responsibility to consider and report upon the best procedures to be adopted to assist the education of children in isolated areas of Australia, has he or the Government received any complaints from the parents of such children about the generous allocation of money to them prior to the report of the Senate Committee being finalised? 
I believe that the Senate tonight is indebted to  Senator Cavanagh,  the Minister for Works, for trying to bring this debate back to its real purpose and that is whether the Public Service Arbitrator has the right to make a decision in relation to members of the Public Service. In effect the Arbitrator said that there shall be 4 weeks annual leave for workers who are in an appropriate union. The Opposition has criticised that decision no end. We have heard tonight that members of the Labor Party are untruthful and are deceitful. In fact some members of the Opposition went so far as to say that we should be bundled out of office because of our alleged deceitfulness. They say that there should be no compulsion, but I point out that the Arbitrator is not compelling anybody to belong to a union. 
The Arbitrator is leaving the matter entirely to the individual's discretion as to whether he joins a union. 
Just hang on a moment, please,  Senator Jessop.  The Arbitrator said that if a person wants to have 4 weeks annual leave that person should pay a contribution to the appropriate union but if not, do not join the union. That is freedom of choice. If  Senator Byrne  will remain quiet for a moment I will relate what his esteemed leader did in the past. Then he will not have a smile on his face. Do honourable senators opposite know that  Sir Kenneth  Morris, one of the pillars of the Liberal Party in Queensland, introduced into the State Parliament legislation providing that there shall be compulsory unionism or, in other words, preference to unionists? Let me read to honourable senators section 12(2.) of the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act that operates in Queensland. I repeat that it was introduced by a pillar of the Liberal Party,  Sir Kenneth  Morris. At that time he was not knighted. Section 12 (2.) states: 
Where it is mutually agreed by the parlies concerned, or considered advisable by the Commission that preference by granted either generally or to any industrial union, such preference shall be granted subject to such conditions as the Commission may, approve. 
What does the Country-Liberal Party Government in Queensland do? To every person who joins the Public Service in Queensland it sends the following letter. 
I am directed to inform you that, in pursuance of the provisions of the Public Service Act 1922-1968, you have been appointed- 
The position in the Public Service is given. The letter then states what the salary will be and tells the person to go to a doctor and get a medical certificate. Honourable senators should bear in mind that this letter has the approval of the Country-Liberal Party Government in Queensland. The letter contains the following statement: 
If you are not already a member of a registered industrial union you must become  a  member of such  a  union by- 
A space has been left for the date to be inserted. The letter goes further and says: 
Please advise the above Staff Clerk in writing by that date as to membership, stating the name of the Union concerned for which purpose the attached form may be used. 
That is not bad, is it? Hie classic statement appears in the final paragraph, which reads: 
Please also enclose the receipt for such Union fees for noting and subsequent return to you. 
The colleagues of honourable senators opposite do not say: 'If you do not join a union you will not get 4 weeks' annual leave'. They say: If you do not join a union you will be unemployed'. How in the name of conscience can honourable senators opposite criticise the Government for its attitude to the granting of 4 weeks annual leave when their own colleagues say that to every public servant in Queensland? Perhaps I should go further because it may be said that this position applies only to some part of the Public Service. I challenge honourable senators opposite to ask me to table the documents I have in front of me. I have a document in front of me from the Department of Education that is signed by  Mr A.  E. Guymer, the Director General of Education, which reads: 
I have to inform you that approval has been given for your appointment as- 
The position in the Education Department is given. The letter continues: 
Your position is subject to the terms of the Public Service Award - State with the following conditions of employment- 
The letter then lists the salary and other conditions of employment. The final paragraph states: 
If you are not already a member of a registered Industrial Union, you are required to join such a Union within one month. You should advise the Principal in writing as to membership. 
That applies to school teachers. The same applies to prison officers, railway employees and overseers of departments. They are all required by the colleagues of honourable senators opposite to become members of a union. I have already referred to the legislation that  Sir Kenneth  Morris introduced. 
 He was subsequently, yes. I think I should refer to it again because it is important. He introduced legislation which provides: 
Where it is mutually agreed by the parries concerned or considered advisable by the Commission that preference be granted either generally or to any industrial union, such preference shall be granted subject to such conditions as the Commission may approve. 
I emphasise the words 'as the Commission may approve'. Let me cite a condition that the Industrial Commission has prescribed as a result of the provision to which I have just referred. It is headed 'Preference of Employment' and states: 
Preference of employment shall be given to financial members of- 
In this case -  the Printing and Kindred Industries Union of Employees, Queensland Branch . . . then to persons who give to the employer an undertaking in writing to make application to join such Union within 14 days of accepting employment. 
No person who is not a financial member of such Union shall continue or be continued in employment under this Agreement unless he makes application to join the Union within 14 days from the date hereof, or if he commences employment after that dale, then within 14 days from the date of commencing employment. 
Please listen to the next provision, which states: 
No person shall continue or be continued in employment for more than one week after the employer has been notified by the Union that he has ceased to be a financial member of the Union. 
No person shall be deemed to have made application to join the Union unless he has tendered the fee prescribed by the rules of the Union. 
That prescription is a result of legislation introduced into the Queensland Parliament by a member of the Liberal Party supported by members of the Country Party. 
 Yes. What a travesty of justice that the Commonwealth Government should be criticised, not for compelling a worker to join a union but for telling him: 'If you elect not to join a union you will not get 4 weeks annual leave'. But the Queensland Government the Government supported by the colleagues of honourable senators opposite says: 'Join a union or else get the sack'. Which is the more tyrannical attitude to workers? Do honourable senators want that prescription to prevail in the federal sphere or do they want the attitude that has been adopted by the Government? 
It has been said that the Government is trying to divide the workers. Let me refer to a debate which took place in the Queensland Parliament and which is reported in Volume CLXXXIII of the Queensland Parliamentary Debates of 1 944-45, as follows: 
The provision for an appeal to an industrial magistrate and if necessary later to the Industrial Court, is a very good one, because I do not think there is any authority in the State that is better able to determine a question of preference than an industrial magistrate or the Industrial Court, members of which are dealing with such questions frequently. 
Who do honourable senators opposite think said that in the Queensland Parliament? None other than the  Hon.  V. C. Gair. Yet he has said tonight that because an Arbitrator, a member of an industrial commission, prescribes something in a Public Service award he is wrong. Let me take the matter a step further. Let me refer to page 1749 of the same debate. I wish to do so because I want to bring in one of the champions of the Country Party who is now involved in this matter. On that page the following report appears: 
The Minister- 
That is  Senator Gair  -  mentioned that Queensland was the first State to introduce such legislation. 
That was said by  Mr Nicklin,  or  Sir Francis  Nicklin as he is now, who went on to say: 
Unfortunately, I must correct him because Victoria in December 1943 passed a measure giving preference to members of the fighting services. 

 Mr Gair is reported as having interjected and said: 
Was not that measure confined- 
Debate interrupted. 
When the Senate adjourned at 10.30 last night we were debating the relative merits - more the demerits - of a motion moved by  Senator Greenwood.  I believe it is important that 1 should now repeat the text of the motion which we are debating.  Senator Greenwood  moved: 
That the Senate disapproves the following Determinations made under the Public Service Arbitration Act 1920-1972:  1 ask honourable senators to note those words. Here we have an astounding situation. Opposition senators have said over many years that everybody must accept arbitration. Here we have an arbitrated decision by an arbitrator appointed by this Parliament to do a job for the Public Service. He does the job, and what do the members of the Liberal Party do? They immediately disapprove of his arbitrated decision. If they are the standards by which Opposition senators are to be known, then I suggest that they have a very careful look at themselves before they say anything at all at any time about a trade union or workers opposing an arbitrator's decision. 
I will deal with that matter later. At this stage I am addressing the Senate and I do not propose to be sidetracked by inane remarks from  Senator Marriott.  This has been a remarkable debate because of some of the utterances of some honourable senators opposite. What did  Senator Carrick  say in one part of his speech.  Senator Carrick  made an extraordinary statement to this effect: 
Preference to unionists is the same thing basically as compulsory unionism, lt is a back door method of introducing compulsory unionism. 
What position is taken by the Liberal Party in the States of the Commonwealth? Not only does it agree to preference for unionists but also - I will read the document to honourable senators - it says that unless a person joins a union he will not have a job. Yet the Liberal Party senators are the people who talk of democracy. If honourable senators opposite dispute what I say let me read once again the appropriate extracts from a direction that is given to every person who joins the Public 
Service in Queensland. Who occupies the government benches in Queensland? None other than the supporters of a gerrymanderelected Country Party Premier together with the Liberal Party section of the coalition government. This is the direction they give to people who are about to join the Public Service: 
I am directed to inform you that, in pursuance of the provisions of the Public Service Act 1922-1968, you have been appointed-  to a position in the Public Service.  Senator Greenwood  should come back and listen because he might be interested to learn this. As part of that direction they then say to the appointee: 
If you are not already a member of a registered industrial union you must become a member of such a union- 
I emphasise the word must'. 
This is in the State of Queensland. 
The date is 5 th March 1973. That is not bad, is it? Of course, that is only one part of the direction. They go a little further then and say: 
Please advise the above Staff Clerk in writing by that date as to membership, staling the name of the Union concerned for which purpose the attached form may be used. 
Then appears a classic of guided democracy by the Country-Liberal Party coalition in Queensland. This person who is about to be employed in the Public Service is told: 
Please also enclose the receipt for such Union fees for noting and subsequent return to you. 
This direction is signed by the permanent head of the department. 
The  President  or the  Chairman  of Committees may call the attention of the Senate or the Committee, as the case may be, to continued irrelevance or tedious repetition, and may direct a  Senator to  discontinue his speech: 
The Senate is always interested to hear  Senator Milliner;  but,  Mr Deputy President,  I draw your attention to the fact that this part of his speech, including these extracts, was delivered last night in this debate as part of this speech. Without getting into the area of whether or not it is tedious - because, as I said,  Senator Milliner  is interesting to listen to - I say that it is repetition and it fairly may be called tedious repetition. I draw your attention to that standing order,  Mr Deputy President. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - There is no substance in the point of order. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- There is no substance in the point of order. 
1 appreciate your ruling,  Mr Deputy President.  Let me conclude this part of my remarks by saying that the permanent head of the department signs this direction; so it is fairly authentic. Let me go a little further. Last year we had quite an extensive debate on the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It was said, of course, that workers must observe the provisions of the Act. That is the attitude of honourable senators opposite, yet I know people who belong to the Party whose members sit opposite and who say that because of the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act every worker in Australia should belong to the relevant union. As a matter of fact, a provision in the Act passed by the previous Government laid down that that was to be the case. As  Senator Kane  is leaving the chamber, let me remind him that he advocates that anybody who does not belong to a union and works in industry is a bludger and a free wheeler. 
 Senator Kane  of the Democratic Labor Party. Let me go a step further in regard to the DLP. Honourable senators have heard its members say that they will support the principle of 4 weeks annual leave.  Senator Gair,  when he was Premier of Queensland, refused to introduce 3 weeks annual leave for workers in Queensland. Now he is advocating the granting of 4 weeks annual leave. Let me again refer to a debate that took place in the Queensland Parliament in 1944-45. I refer to Queensland Parliamentary Debates, volume CLXXXIII. Again, 

 Senator Gair was involved in this debate. But, more importantly, the Leader of the Country Party in the State House,  Mr Frank  Nicklin, now  Sir Francis  Nicklin, was involved in it.  Mr Nicklin  agreed to give preference to returned soldiers in legislation introduced into that State House by  Mr Gair,  as he then was.  Mr Gair  said in the debate that it did not matter whether a returned soldier was a member of a returned soldiers' organisation. AH he had to do was produce the bona fides showing that he was a returned soldier and he must receive preference of employment. 
We hear  Senator Carrick  and others talk about divisiveness. Would anything further be needed to divide workers than giving preference to returned soldiers? Take the situation of a returned soldier who has no family responsibilities. On the other hand, some other fellow may have tried to enlist in the armed Services but was rejected because of ill health. He may have a family of six, but is denied the employment because  Senator Gair  and  Sir Frank  Nicklin said that he should not have the employment. That is not where the position ends, because it went a little further.  Senator Gair  had this to say- 
I told you the date a while ago. It is 1944-45. 
Thank you very much, senator. At that time,  Senator Byrne  was  Senator Gair's  private secretary. He was floating around in the wings of Parliament House saying: 'Good on you,  Mr Minister'.  This is what  Mr Gair,  the then Premier, said: 
If the court or industrial magistrate rules that he- 
That is, the worker -  is to be given a particular job he is directed to join the relevant union. 
I draw honourable senators' attention to the fact that he said, 'directed to join the relevant union*. 

 - Mr Gair- Senator Gair as he is now. Further,  Sir Frank  Nicklin entered the debate. He is  Senator Webster's  champion of champions.  Senator Webster  says that he is a wonderful fellow.  Sir Frank  Nicklin rose and said that his Party supported the legislation. 
If the honourable senator had the ability he would understand.  Sir Frank  Nicklin supported the legislation to provide that a fellow who obtains a job must join the relevant union. That is astounding.  Senator Gair,  while he was Premier of Queensland, refused to introduce 3 weeks annual leave. Now he is advocating the introduction of 4 weeks annual leave. How inconsistent can you get? He and his colleagues say that no worker should be pressured into joining a union. In other days they supported an entirely different proposition.  Senator Gair  is in print as saying that. Consequently, he cannot have it all ways. The Public Service Arbitrator said: 'I will give 4 weeks annual leave to those who are members of a union'. He has the right to do that. Now that arbitrated decision is being challenged by the very people who are always saying to the workers: You must uphold arbitration'. What a statement to be made by people who said that they knew all about governing this country. 
Last night I referred to legislation introduced into the Queensland Parliament by a Libera) Party member in which it was provided that there must be preference to unionists. The matter was referred to the Industrial Court which made a very rigid prescription.  1  will not offend,  Mr Deputy President,  by reading it out again. Let me say however thai the prescription required every worker in Queensland to become a member of the relevant union. In fairness,  1  point out that some misguided employer in Queensland challenged this prescription. The matter was heard before  His  Honour  Mr Justic  Hanger. He upheld the claim that the prescription was invalid. What happened then? The tory Country-Liberal Party Government of the day knew that. But notwithstanding that, it left that prescription in its State arbitration legislation. Employers knew what the situation was. What do we find? We find that since that decision many employers in Queensland, not because of duress but because they wanted  to  negotiate with a decent body of people  - a  trade union and not free-wheelers or whatever other names people elect  to  caD them - have written into industrial agreements provisions for preference  to  unionists. 
Here are  a  few  of  the agreements in which this course has been followed. This one is titled 'Printing Trade- the Gladstone 
Observer Pty Ltd'. This employer in central Queensland said that it agreed there would be preference of employment and that a fellow who works for that newspaper must join the appropriate trade union. Another one is titled Printing Trade - 'Regional Dailies of Australia Ltd (Queensland Division)'. Honourable senators from country areas of Queensland would know each and every one of these proprietors.  For instance,  Senator  Lawrie would know all the people who run the 'Rockhampton Bulletin'. That newspaper is a signatory to this document which states that preference of employment will be given to unionists and that a worker must join a union if he is to work in that industry. Another agreement reads: 'Printing Trade - Carpentaria Newspapers Pty Ltd'. That is a Ml Isa newspaper. The preference clause would not have to apply in that city, but nevertheless the employer insisted that it be inserted. A person could not obtain a job in M.t Isa unless he was a member of the appropriate union. Another agreement is: 'Printing Trade - Mirror Newspapers Ltd - Sunday Newspaper'. Again, that agreement contains the prescription for preference of employment for unionists. Here is an agreement made by the appropriate union with that grand old bible of the. Liberal Party in Queensland, the 'Courier-Mail' and its Sunday issue, The Sunday-Mail', lt is headed: 'Printing Trade - Queensland Newspapers Pty Ltd'. It contains a preference clause, not because anybody demanded it- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! There is too much noise in the Senate chamber.  Senator Marriott  will cease interjecting. 
 Senator Marriott  interjected that it was preferable to  my  speech. That might  be  his opinion. I do not think any member on the Government side, when we were in Opposition, was told  by the  President that he did  not  want to hear him. That is what happened to  Senator Marriott.  If he wants to start  a  Donnybrook, let him carry on. I will  be  with him all the way.  lt is obvious that the Opposition is on a sticky wicket, not the Government. Our conscience is very clear. 
The Government is headed by  Mr Whitlam.  On Saturday next we will see who the Government is in South Australia when  Mr Dunstan  leads his Party to complete success to annihilate your Party, your disgruntled Party which does not know where it is going, whether it is going up one street or down another.  Mr Dunstan's  Party does not have to worry about the Democratic Labor Party because the DLP is not fielding candidates in the election - so that is one obstacle out of the way. I repeat that it appears to me that the Government can be accused of double dealing. The first opportunity it gets to oppose an arbitrated decision it does so - I am sorry, I meant the Opposition - and its members sit there in all their glory.  Senator Carrick  talked with his tongue in his cheek about dividing the workers. What the Australian Labor Party and the Public Service Arbitrator wanted was to unite the workers so that the Public Service Board could speak to a set of people who were in an appropriate organisation, who were not divided. Honourable senators opposite have said the worker has a fundamental right to determine whether he will join a union. The evidence is completely against them as I think I demonstrated last evening and again tonight. Honourable senators opposite insist that there is a fundamental right. I say that in every walk of life people must observe what the majority want. For instance, if the honourable senator who has been interjecting thinks he could board a bus in this city and not pay his fare I suggest that he try it some time. He will be compelled to pay. Why then should a person not be compelled to pay a union subscription for the very purpose of improving his wages and conditions? Let me cite a situation which will be common for all backbenchers in this chamber tonight. Their secretaries will receive shortly a substantial salary increase which will give them a salary of $100 a week; yet Opposition senators argue that they should not pay a miserable 30c or so every week to recompense the union for what it has expended in gaining that improved industrial condition. 
Here we have a situation in which  Senator Hannan  would not know the first thing about it. 
You are a unionist? 
All you know is Consider Your Verdict; you are the champion of Consider Your Verdict. Go back to radio and TV and consider your verdict for you cannot consider anything we have said because you know that we are 100 per cent right. 
I do not have to show my card. 
My conscience is clear. I was for 20 years secretary of a union and the honourable senator asks me to show my card. 1 would not insult the union by showing the honourable senator my card, lt seems to me,  Mr Deputy President,  that when one throws a stone into a pack of dogs the mongrels will always bark. That occurs all the time and we see it again on this occasion. Opposition senators know they are in a situation impossible to justify; they know they are denying arbitration, and that this is the basis of their objection. They hate unions and unionists and hate is the basis of their attitude in this debate.  Mr Deputy President,  I could continue in this strain for some considerable time. For instance, I could speak of a situation in which  Senator Little,  the great champion of the DLP, did nothing but roast trade unions in his speech the other day. He told of all the secretaries who had run away with union money. But not once did he speak of the legal profession, of which many honourable senators opposite are members; not once did he refer to the legal profession robbing widows, workers and goodness knows what others by taking money out of trust accounts. Let us look at the democracy that is applied in that direction. Why does not the honourable senator come into this one? What happens if a member of the legal profession commits a misdemeanour? What happens is that the law council acts as both judge and jury to lake away that man's livelihood. What about the Australian Medical Association? Honourable senators opposite know that in some States in this Commonwealth a person may not belong to the medical defence league unless he is a member of the AMA. 
No,  Senator Little,  I will let the Clerks Union handle you in due course. 
All right, we will show the cards. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! Honourable senators will come to order.  Senator Milliner  is on his feet.  His  colleagues and members of the Opposition will conform to Standing . Orders and cease this uproar. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  The yapping and the inane remarks do not make a great difference to me because one becomes accustomed to these things. When one is speaking with a clear conscience, none of these interjections can hurt. If honourable senators opposite examine their consciences they will see that they are introducing opposition to this legislation basically because they hate unions and unionists. That is the basis for it all. There is some political aspect to it also, of course; if the Arbitrator had awarded 5 weeks annual leave, they would have opposed that too.  Mr Deputy President,  I believe it is shameful for the Senate to have to debate this issue when it is known that the numbers are against the Government. Still, it does not matter. The fact remains that we are on record as accusing  Senator Greenwood,  his colleagues, members of the Country Party and members of the DLP as being completely anti-unionists, and as a result they stand condemned in the eyes of all unionists in Australia. 
I am sorry that I have to say that the address delivered tonight by  Senator Carrick  was one of the most insulting speeches ever delivered in any parliament in the world. I say that for one reason only:  Senator Carrick  insulted the people of Australia. Towards the end of his diatribe he said that the Labor Party was in power due to misrepresentation and lies. In effect he said that the Australian people are a lot of idiots with no intelligence whatsoever and that they listen to any type of argument put forward. That is not so.  Senator Carrick  forgets that at the start of World War II the Prime Minister of the then government, a member of the party he represents, ratted on the country and could not do his work. The Australian Labor Party was called on to do the job of defending this country. Yet we heard  Senator Carrick  say that this Government cannot defend the people of Australia. I charge him with insulting the people of Australia. I charge him with fabrication. I charge him with making untruthful statements tonight, and I will prove those charges now. 
 I refer to a time when  Senator Carrick  got  Senator Wright,  a Minister in the previous government, into all sorts of trouble in the world.  Senator Carrick  repeated the same stupidity tonight. On one occasion  Senator Carrick  asked  Senator Wright,  whether the Australian Labor Party ever protested about mainland China entering the nuclear field.  Senator Wright  in his nlmcal manner, blasted the Australian Labor Party for never making a protest. Subsequently he had to come back and apologise to the Senate for what he had said because he found out that we had made such a statement. We had condemned mainland China For testing nuclear weapons. 
Tonight  Senator Carrick  said that wo had not condemned the USSR or any communist country which had committed acts of aggression. Let me remind  Senator Carrick  and honourable senators opposite, if they need reminding, that the ALP was the first party to condemn the acts of aggression committed by the USSR against Czechoslovakia. I believe that it was to the credit of the Government of the day and the ALP that the Senate condemned unanimously the USSR for its acts of aggression. So if was useless for  Senator Carrick  to say what he said. Those 2 examples have proved him wrong. Again he fell for the old political trick of making an assumption and using it as a conclusion. He said that the Prime Minister cannot do the work which he has allotted to himself. Why should he assume that the Prime Minister cannot do the work? The Prime Minister, in his own good time, will pass a portfolio to somebody else if he cannot do all the work. But that is his business. It has nothing to do with the honourable senator. 
 Senator Maunsell  said that the Prime Minister is incapable. I wonder whether the honorable senator would like to ask  Senator Murphy  or any of my other ministerial colleagues how capable our Ministers are. This morning  Senator Maunsell^  colleague asked a question about kangaroos. By the time  Senator Murphy  finished answering  Senator Lawrie  he proved that  Senator Lawrie  knew nothing about kangaroos.  Senator Maunsell  is such a lightweight that he is not worth worrying about.  Senator Carrick  said all types of things to try to denigrate the work of the ALP and the Government. He said that there was nothing wrong with 2 of the bases about which we have asked questions os-er the years. Of course there is nothing wrong with them, but why could nol the Parliament and the Australian people have been told that there was nothing wrong with the bases? That is the point on which we differ from the Opposition. We have maintained that the previous Government should have told the people whether there was anything dangerous in the buses, but it declined to do so. Tonight we have told the people that there is nothing wrong with the 2 bases to which I have referred. 
Tonight  Senator Carrick  spoke at some length about Pine Gap. He said that tourist buses can get into the base. He might recall that his Government, when it was in power, refused to allow parliamentarians to visit Pine Gap.  Senator Keeffe  asked and wrote for permission to go to Pine Gap. He was told that he could not go. He produced the document which was produced by the Democratic Labor Party tonight to show that everybody in Australia could see what was going on at Pine Gap. He stated that American congressmen could go to Pine Gap of their own free will. That statement was accepted. The Government had to agree to parliamentarians being allowed to go to Pine Gap. 
There are other things that I would very much like to say. 1 repeat that 1 believe that  Senator Carrick's  speech tonight was one of the most insulting speeches ever recorded in the annals of parliamentary debates. I ask him to read his speech in Hansard. If he does I think he will agree that he insulted the people of Australia. I ask for leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debated adjourned. 
I rise tonight because I feel an injustice has been done to many people in the Shire of Maroochy. I might say in the first place that the Shire of Maroochy in Queensland is approximately 100 miles north of Brisbane. The Shire of Maroochy is governed by a  chairman,  a  deputy chairman  and councillors elected by popular vote. They have as their responsibility many things concerned with the improvement of affairs in a shire. Recently the actions of some of the councillors have come under severe criticism. In fact, a petition bearing 3,500 names was presented to the Queensland Parliament from the people in the area asking that a judicial inquiry be made into the affairs of the Maroochy Shire Council. The Premier of Queensland passed the petition over to the Minister for Local Government,  Mr McKechnie,  who, I might say. said on one occasion that he felt that legislation should be introduced because he had been talking to a taxi driver and the taxi driver thought it would be a good idea. The Minister in his wisdom recommended to the Government that no action be taken. We have  a  situation in which at least 3,500 people were prepared to put their names to a petition asking the Government for a judicial inquiry into something which has been happening in their immediate neighbourhood but the Government has declined  to  accept  the  position. 
That is the Queensland Government, yes. We find that this situation has arisen as a result of what may be regarded as land dealings. A parcel of land was to be rezoned from rural to commercial use. While it was zoned as rural it was bought by a company, some of the members of which are councillors of the Maroochy Shire Council. That parcel of land was bought for $100,000. During the process of purchase and subsequent resale the land was rezoned as commercial. Of course, this enhanced the value of the land. I might say that during the period of rezoning the people in the area were notified that objections, if there were any to its being rezoned, were to be lodged with the Shire Clerk. The Council did not wait until after the closing date for objections to be lodged before it proceeded to rezone the land. The land having been rezoned, this company of which some of the councillors of the Maroochy Shire Council are directors, sold that land for $425,000. 
 I am sorry, i cannot give the honourable senator the precise details of the area. So in fact they made a profit of $325,000 in 41 days. Obviously this was of concern to the people in the area who have held protest meetings and so on. Legitimately they presented their petition to the Parliament but the Government took no action whatsoever. I do not know whether the Commonwealth Government can take action in this matter but I hope that it can. If it cannot, I hope that my raising the issue will be a warning to the responsible Minister in the Commonwealth Government to see that these things do not happen under the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth Government. 
I might say that the member for the area,  Mr Low,  M.L.A., is a member of the Australian Country Party. He has been most irate and very critical of the procedures adopted by the Maroochy Shire Council. I do not raise this matter for political reasons because  Mr Low  is the only person I have mentioned by name. The  Deputy Chairman  of the Council is  Mr Bill  Benardos.  Mr Benardos  is  a  very respected citizen of the community. He has held the position of  Deputy Chairman  of the Council for some time. He also has been most critical of the actions of the Shire Council in relation to this land. So 2 responsible people in the community are concerned about this matter. I know nothing of  Mr Benardos'  political affiliations. I know him to be a gentleman very much interested in sport and in all things connected with the welfare of young people, particularly those in this area. He has been elected by popular vote on more than one occasion and he is now  Deputy Chairman  of the shire. So it will be seen that this is not a political matter at all. It is a matter of whether people have used their power as councillors to further their own interests rather than the interests of the people they represent. 
People in the State Government will say that I am putting up a centralist plea. Such is not the case. I am putting forward the proposition that I believe that people have been injured, not financially but morally. They have been injured because of the maladministration of certain people in the Maroochy Shire Council, and that is the reason I raise the issue tonight. 1 trust that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  who is represented in this chamber by the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh)  will go into this matter further. If anything can be done to assist these people I hope the Minister will do so. 1 ask him also to refer the text of this matter and any further reports he may have on the matter to the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  for his consideration and report. 
Like other speakers tonight, I will not delay the Senate for long but I believe that there are one or two things that must be said positively. We heard  Senator Hannan,  for instance, accuse the Government of being against free speech yet during his contribution tonight he said that the acts of Wilfred Burchett were treasonable. The man has never been charged, he has never been before any court of law, but  Senator Hannan,  an alleged lawyer, said that his actions were treasonable. If that is not prejudging a case, then I have yet to learn what those words mean. However, the point is that this matter is supposed to be urgent and I want to address my remarks to that claim. 
We have heard members of the Party which sponsored this motion but they have not indicated on any occasion why it is urgent. We heard  Senator McManus  speak feelingly tonight about this matter but on no occasion did he indicate why it is urgent. If honourable senators disbelieve what I say, I ask them to refresh their memories in the morning by reading the daily Hansard. The debate has covered a wide field and I do not want to make it any wider, but I must indicate to the Senate and to the people at large what is behind this motion. 
I say, with respect, that there is no urgency about the motion. It has been put forward to try to prove guilt by association. We heard  Senator McManus  conclude his reasoned speech tonight by saying that Wilfred Burchett is indeed a fortunate person because he has friends behind the Iron Curtain and in front of the Iron Curtain. The Australian Democratic Labor Party has said that communism is bad, so anybody who gets behind the Iron Curtain or anybody who has friends behind the Iron Curtain is bad. Then the members of the DLP go a step further. They allege that we of the Labor Party insult the United States of America. They say that the actions of this man are treasonable, and then they add that he is a friend of  Dr Kissinger.  Surely we in this country have had enough of guilt by association. I have a document here which indicates that a man has been persecuted in this country because for 6 weeks he belonged to the Communist Party. He was working in a most important aircraft factory in Australia, trying to assist in the defence of this country but because he made a mistake - he acknowledged his mistake - and was in the 
Communist Party for 6 weeks, he was hounded down and today is working as a labourer notwithstanding his engineering ability. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wilkinson)  - The point of order is upheld.  Senator Milliner,  will you confine your remarks to the matter before the Senate. 
I repeat that no-one in this chamber who has sponsored this motion tonight has indicated the urgent nature of the motion. On the contrary, we on the Government side have been able to indicate that we are entitled to be suspicious about why the motion has been brought forward to the Senate for alleged urgent consideration. We have shown, and it has not been denied by any member of the Democratic Labor Party, that  Senator Kane,  one of its members, is involved in litigation. Wilfred Burchett has taken action against  Senator Kane,  and no-one in the DLP has denied that. 1 accept  Senator McManus's  statement tonight that if that is true he knows nothing of it. However, there are 3 other colleagues of  Senator Kane  present and and on no occasion have they denied that allegation. I believe that the case for urgent discussion of this motion is suspect. I believe that it has no foundation in fact. Consequently I urge the Senate to reject the proposition that the motion be regarded as urgent. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation. Will the Minister investigate the complaint of numerous members of the defence forces of Australia that in the September-November 1972 period they were summoned to appear before a tribunal convened to review pension entitlements? ls the Minister aware that the vast majority of reviews which occurred when the Liberal-Country Party was the government resulted in a reduction of pension entitlements? Will the Minister invite from returned personnel who were required to report for the interviews details of the conduct of the aforesaid reviews? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. Does the Minister recall the scurrilous and damaging disclosures made in this place last year when it was learned that the Liberal-Country Party Government had contemptuously approved the action of planting an informer in the embassy of a friendly nation and had used the information supplied by that informer to sabotage the effective role of that embassy? 
I wish to express a few words of tribute to  Senator Wood  for what he has done over many years for the Parliament of Australia. I believe that I have known  Senator Wood  for longer than anyone in this chamber. I do not know whether we have ever had a cross word to say between us. If we have, we have been able to make up our differences afterwards. I would like to pay a personal tribute to  Senator Wood  for the work he has done on behalf of the people of Australia. I know of the difficulties he has experienced at times. I can readily recall that on at least 2 occasions there were moves afoot that he not be endorsed by his party for the Senate team. On each occasion the people of Queensland, particularly the people of northern Queensland, rallied to his support. Consequently he won endorsement. I pay  Senator Wood  the compliment of saying that I would regard him as the most difficult political opponent in Queensland to defeat in the history of the Senate. I wish to thank him very much for the work he has done on behalf of the people of Australia. 
I had no intention of entering this debate until  Senator Wright  referred to the fact that it could be unfair if the Committee did not accept his proposition. With respect, I think that something has to be said about it. Today there was a meeting of the Publications Committee. We assembled at 1 p.m., in our lunch hour, and we met until, I think, approximately twenty-five past one. We were required to be back in the Senate at 2 o'clock. I do not know whether  Senator Wright  knows it, but we do not get a fee for that. 
 Senator Wright  said that everybody gets a fee. That is not in accordance with fact. My colleagues on this occasion on the Opposition side who were present at the meeting today would confirm that what I am stating is a fact. There is another point about it. Let us take, for instance, the occasions when we travel from say, Queensland for a committee meeting on the Tuesday morning before Parliament meets. It means that we have to travel by a plane leaving Brisbane at 7 o'clock. Because of daylight saving, the plane leaves at 6 o'clock. 
It is 7 o'clock in normal times, but do not forget that there is an abnormal government in power in Queensland and we have to work to its times, not to normal times. I am quite serious about this. Under those circumstances we have to rise at about 5 a.m. in order to arrive at the airport by 6 a.m. Then we could work until possibly 1 1 p.m. or midnight on Tuesday night. It is not a bad stint, is it, from 5 a.m. until possibly 1 1 p.m. or later? With respect, I do not think that  Senator Wright  has taken these things into consideration. I do not dispute his sincerity about this matter, but I would suggest, with respect, that if one looks at some of the circumstances pertaining to those who have to travel from far distant States, one will see that  Senator Wright's  proposition is not as sound as it may appear on the surface. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Services and Property. In view of the fact that the Minister was. an important unit in the Brisbane City Council elections held on Saturday last and was thus aware of the anger of the people in having iniquitous legislation imposed on them by the Country Party dominated State Government in Queensland, is he aware that the Australian Labor Party team led by Alderman Clem Jones won 20 seats out of the 21 seats contested? Does the Minister know whether this success was a record in the annals of local government? 
I  present the first report from the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security the following question: Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a short announcement by the Federal  President  of the Australian Medical Association,  Dr Gavin  Johnson, when he said that the revision schedule of more than 3,000 recommended fees had to be printed and that this work would take some weeks and that the list would be printed outside Australia? Will the Minister please take this matter up with  Dr Gavin  Johnson to ascertain whether he has been correctly reported? If the report is factual will the Minister ask  Dr Johnson  whether he will justify his Association's actions in having printing executed outside Australia, when Australians will.be expected to pay, the substantial increases in medical charges proposed by the AMA? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour. Could the Minister explain how 2 conflicting opinions can be justified in, for example, a case where an anti-Labor government, such as exists in the State, of Queensland, grants an additional week's annual leave to its employees and that is regarded by Liberals as the act of a benevolent employer, but when a Labor government acts in a similar manner and grants additional leave to its employees it is charged with irresponsibility? Does the Minister agree that such contrasting attitudes could be regarded as typical of the two-faced industrial pronouncements of the anti-Labor forces in Australia today? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for the Media. In the event of the 1973 touring Queensland Rugby League footballers playing against a New South Wales country 13 at Seiffert Oval, Queanbeyan, will he endeavour to have this important game televised? 
I  present the second report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
I would like to say a few words in relation to this important legislation. I do not think it should be passed through this chamber without some mention of the way in which the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs.  Mr Bryant,  has tackled the problem of Aborigines. Never in the history of Australia has anyone tackled the job with the same enthusiasm that he has shown. I believe he should be congratulated by the people of Australia for trying to implement some of the measures that the Australian people told the previous Government by referendum should be implemented but which the previous Government failed to implement. I do not suppose it is an occasion on which criticism of what has gone on in the past should be offered. However, I do ask the members of this Senate to contrast the attitudes of this Government towards the affairs of Aborigines with the attitudes adopted in the past. The present Government has appointed a Minister for Aboriginal Affairs whereas previously Aboriginal affairs were dealt with by a bits and pieces ministry. I repeat that  Mr Gordon  Bryant has done a particularly fine job in relation to the Aboriginal people and indeed the people of Australia. If honourable senators would care to have a look at the photographs the Minister has of the conditions under which Aborigines are living and were allowed to live by the previous Government they would realise that  Mr Gordon  Bryant is doing - I believe he will continue to do - a particularly fine job, and he has the full approval of the members of the Government. 
Another thought that I would voice concerns infant mortality. I pay tribute to  Dr Everingham  in this direction. 1 accompanied  Dr Everingham  on a visit to a reserve in Queensland - the Woorabinda Mission. As far as I know, he was the first person in Australia to draw attention to the infant mortality rate amongst Aboriginal children, and the position has improved - I believe it will improve considerably in the future - as a result of his endeavours. I believe I should pay tribute to those 2 Ministers of the Government for their sterling work on behalf of the Aboriginal people. Because of the enthusiasm with which these Ministers approach their task, I know that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs will be pleased to assist those people requiring assistance. The Government is anxious to do everything possible for these people. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
I will not delay the Senate for long. I point out to honourable senators how difficult it will be to implement the amendment if it is carried. I refer to the composition of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal 
Affairs. Serving on that Committee are  Senator James  McClelland, who is the  Chairman,  and Senators Brown, Byrne, Durak, Wheeldon and Wright.  I  am particularly concerned with the responsibilities which have already been undertaken by  Senator James  McClelland. He is the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts. We have arranged to meet in Sydney next Monday and Tuesday. Arrangements have been made for witnesses to come from other parts of Australia. 
-I do not think it is intended that we should meet during the Easter period. Perhaps it is;  I  do not know. 
Honourable senators opposite raid people on Christmas Day, but that is not my idea of doing things. On Thursday, 26th April, and Friday, 27th April, we are again committed with  Senator James  McClelland who will be chairing the Committee on Education, Science and the Arts which is meeting in either Sydney or Canberra  - I  am not sure which. Out of those days which the Opposition seeks to allocate for tht Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs we on this side have committed the  Chairman  of the Committee and ourselves to 4 days of sitting.  I  suggest that this is going to make it difficult, particularly for  Senator James  McClelland, to meet the requirements of this amendment. 
-I craved your indulgence,  Mr President.  I shall not impose on it any further to answer the stupid and inane remarks made by some honourable senators on my right. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Rae's amendment)  be added. 
 I rise only to defend what I believe is the right of the Government in this matter. It has been demonstrated quite clearly that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  acted tonight in a way which I can only describe as the way in which a shyster lawyer would act. 
 In deference to you,  Mr President,  I withdraw it and say that the conduct of the Leader of the Opposition tonight would upset the susceptibilities of anyone who observed decent standards that the law may provide.  Mr President,  I go further and challenge the Leader of the Opposition when he says that the list provided on your desk for the arrangement of speakers is confidential. If it is confidential, I could name at least 15 people here tonight who have breached the confidence of the Whips and the  President  of the Senate. On innumerable occasions we have seen honourable senators from both sides of the chamber go to the 
President's Chair and look at the list showing the arrangement of speakers, and that practice has never been challenged. Now the Leader of the Opposition is saying that we are dishonourable for doing so; that we are breaching a confidence.  Mr President,  that is typical talk to hide their own misdemeanours in this debate. The Leader of the Opposition in the Senate stands condemned for his attack on honourable senators in saying that they breach confidences. I entirely reject that charge. 
Will the Minister for the Media make available to the Senate details of any arrangements made by the Australian Broadcasting Commission to cover the arrival in Peking of Australia's first Ambassador to the People's Republic of China,  Dr Fitzgerald? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Has he been made aware of the widespread approval and appreciation of the people of Australia of his efforts to influence the French Government to abandon its expressed intention of using the Pacific Ocean for the purpose of conducting nuclear tests, to the disadvantage of the inhabitants of the many areas that would thus be adversely affected? Will the Minister accept the thanks of the vast majority of Australians who applaud the initiatives he and the Australian Government have taken to discourage the use of nuclear power for other than peaceful purposes? 
 I direct my question to the Attorney-General. Is it a fact that the principal conclusions of the Australian Academy of Science on the biological effects of nuclear fallout include the emphasis that there should be no unwarranted exposure to radiation? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Labour indicate whether the Department of Labour is endeavouring to reduce still further the ranks of the unemployed in Australia so that workers may not be working under the threat of mass unemployment - an obnoxious industrial condition which obviously was encouraged by the McMahon-Anthony Government? 
I am sure that honourable senators and any person unfortunate enough to have to listen to  Senator Kane  tonight would deplore how he attempted to overcome your ruling,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  In his concluding remarks,  Senator Kane,  the greatest political accident that ever sat in the Senate, tried to denigrate the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  If an honourable senator is to conduct himself in this way and speaks in that fashion - and I repeat that  Senator Kane  is the greatest political accident that ever sat in this chamber - 1 wonder where parliamentary democracy is going. So, I trust that I will be able to bring the debate substantially back to the purpose of the legislation. The purpose of the legislation is very well based and is set out in the second reading speech of the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy).  For the purpose of the record and for the benefit of those people who may be listening to the broadcast of the Senate's proceedings I wish to read some of the important statements made by. the Minister in his second reading speech.  Senator Murphy  said: 
The result of the census on 30th June 1971 established that Western Australia is entitled to another seat in the House of Representatives, making a total of 10 seats. This matter was repeatedly brought to the notice of the Parliament by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who was then Leader of the Opposition, but nothing was done by the previous Government. Nor was the general practice followed of having a redistribution of Federal electoral boundaries following a census. 
That statement is the basis for the legislation. lt seeks to put into effect what the law of the land said should be done. 
The previous Government when, unfortunately for Australia, it was in power, neglected to carry out its responsibilities. The census of 1971 revealed that Western Australia, because of the increase in its population, should have a total of 10 seats in the House of Representatives. It revealed that Western Australia should have an additional representative in that House. That fact was brought to the previous Government's attention on innumerable occasions. But the Liberal-Country Party Government felt that it would be to its disadvantage to listen to what should be done in accordance with the law and it ignored that fact. Consequently, it is now the responsibility of the present Government to introduce legislation and to act in accordance with the law. I refer again to the second reading speech in which the Minister continued: 
The Western Australian situation, therefore, makes a redistribution not only necessary but also urgent and, if the provisions of the Electoral Act relating to distributions are to be changed, appropriate legislation must be passed by Parliament. 
That is the very legislation that we are discussing tonight. The second reading speech continues: 
The proposals in this Bill are therefore introduced lo allow the redistribution in Western Australia to proceed as quickly as possible as, generally speaking, the formalities take about 28 to 31 weeks. In accordance with the usual practice, following the taking of tha census, it is proposed to proceed with a redistribution in all States to remove the malapportionment of electorates for the House of Representatives. 
Could anything be more clear than that statement by the Minister when he was introducing the legislation? He is giving effect to what should have been done by the previous government. But because that government knew that it was in bad odour with the people of Australia, it conveniently forgot what was stated in the law of the land. 
 Senator McAuliffe  reminds me that there were threats of High Court action. The threats went even further than that. The threat in Western Australia was that there could be a challenge to the validity of the election held in December 1972 because the Government had failed to carry out its responsibilities in relation to the Commonwealth Electoral Act.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson was the Leader of the Government in the Senate at that time. I always remember what he said on one occasion when his attention was drawn to the possibility that people could be escaping from their obligations to pay income tax.  Senator Wheeldon  asked him a question about whether his attention had been drawn to this.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson replied that it was the responsibility of government when something is wrong with the law to see that the law is amended and corrected. I agree. Everybody would agree that such a proposal should be put into effect. But this was not done by the Government that was in power in 1972. It thought that it would be to its political disadvantage to observe the provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. Consequently, we now have this legislation before the Parliament of Australia introduced by a Labor Government. What did the AttorneyGeneral say in relation to equity of distribution? I ask honourable senators opposite to listen to what he said because it is obvious that they have not read it: 
Exact equality in the numbers of electors per division cannot be achieved, nor is it desirable. Some degree of variation from the quota or average must be allowed. At the same time, equality of political rights is inherent in a truly democratic State and these rights must he indisputably safeguarded by the legislature. To this end we intend to amend the law so that, as far as may be practicable, the value of the vole of one citizen shall be equivalent to the vote of another. 
Do honourable senators of the Opposition dispute that that is equality? Do they say that the Minister has laid down an unfair principle? Do they say that they would never agree to that principle? I hear no reply. Perhaps,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that may be because you have asked honourable senators opposite not to interrupt. I do not mind in the slightest if they do because they would make themselves look so stupid by their interjections. What does the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Withers,  say about this? He spoke in the debate on 15th May 1973.  His  remarks are recorded on page 1583 of Hansard. If honourable senators opposite listen attentively they will find out what their leader said about equality and one vote, one value. He said: 
Of course,  Mr Daly  has made great play on the slogan 'one vote, one value'. This is a principle to which we can all subscribe. 

 Senator Withers, the leader of honourable senators opposite, is reported to have said that in the Senate at page 1583 of the Hansard of 15th May 19" 3. Yet honourable senators opposite would say that they do not agree with that principle. Yet their own leader has said that he does agree with it. 
I am asked to quote further from what  Senator Withers  said. I will do so. He continued: 
However it is not possible to have this principle incorporated perfectly or absolutely into any voting system. 
Thank you so much. The members of the Opposition have at least come to life and said: 'Hear, hear!' It appears that they agree with that. Why do not they agree with what was recommended by the independent authority in 1959, the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review set up by this Parliament? What did that Committee recommend? It said almost precisely that one cannot have a perfect system but that there should be at the most a 10 per cent variation.  Senator Lillico  said tonight that if these same honourable senators and members of the House of Representatives had an opportunity to change their minds, they would do so now. Why would they do so? What is different now to when they made their decision in 1959? If there is a difference it is in favour of their unanimous recommendation because there are less people in the country areas of Australia now than there were in 1959. I repeat that  Senator Lillico  said that if these gentlemen had an opportunity they would reverse their decision today. I have never known  Senator Wright,  who was a member of that Committee, to hide his light under a bushel. I think that everybody would agree that he is very forthright in making his declarations. 
 Senator Cavanagh  might know that better than I. But the situation is that if  Senator Wright  is going to change his decision - frankly, I do not think that he would - he must declare himself in the Parliament. I do not think that up to date he has declared himself in the debate. Consequently, I think that  Senator Lillico's  statement was not in accordance with fact. Again, I want to quote from the second reading speech of the Minister. He said: 
The existing law allows Distribution Commissioners to depart from the quota of electors by 20 per cent either way and it is a simple mathematical fact that this margin, in application, allows a division to have up to 50 per cent more electors than another division in the same State. 
I ask honourable senators: Is that position equitable? Is it equitable that one division should have 40,000 electors and yet another division h ave 60,000 electors? 1 do not think that an argument of that nature can be justified. I do not think it can be justified by the argument that some members may have additional miles to cover in their divisions. I believe that honourable senators would agree that  Mr Daly  has been fair to a vast majority of honourable senators and members of the House of Representatives. He has gone further now by providing additional allowances for members of Parliament who operate in divisions over a certain number of square miles. I just forget the exact figure. Irespective of the amount granted or the area for which the allowance will be paid, the fact is that he has recognised that some members in another place may have some of those difficulties. He has indicated in a positive way that they should receive an additional allowance to help them to overcome some of their problems. Is not that a fair proposition? Is that not an indication to the people of Australia and to honourable senators opposite that this 
Government is conscious of some of the difficulties that may be experienced and that it is prepared to go out of its way to assist in overcoming them? But honourable senators opposite cannot sacrifice a principle with which the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, agreed - 'that there should be, as near as possible, one vote one value. It is incomprehensible that any senator opposite should attempt to justify some adjustment of that principle. 
What is the position in Australia today because of the shift in population? In some divisions the number of electors is well above the quota. In other divisions it is well below the quota. How can honourable senators opposite justify the division of Darling having 18.65 per cent of voters below the quota and the division of Grayndler having 14.01 per cent of voters above the quota? Comparatively speaking they are almost adjoining divisions. Let me refer to some other divisions. The division of Brisbane has 15.4 per cent above the quota. Griffith has 16.08 per cent above the quota. Kennedy has 17.95 per cent or almost 18 per cent below the quota. Swan in Western Australia, I am informed, has 15.76 per cent above the quota. How in the name of conscience can honourable senators opposite justify disparities of that nature? A law which permits such variations is most certainly not good enough, and it should be altered. That is the purpose of the Bill. 
There are other matters which, I believe, indicate that the Opposition is completely unaware of the whole intention of the Bill. To give an indication of this unawareness I propose to read some of the comments made by honourable senators opposite.  Senator Withers,  as recorded at page 1584 of Hansard of 15th May 1973, said: 
The Labor Parly is not interested at all in having one vote one value. 
do not know what we have to do to demonstrate that we are interested in that proposition. Let me quote the passage in full: 
This is only a smokescreen hiding the Labor Party's true intentions. This Bill is an exercise in deception. The Labor Party is not interested at all in having one vote one value. This Bill is just the first step on the way to redistributing the electorate on a population basis. 
 Do not come in yet. He has led you into a trap. Just listen to this. 
What did the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate say, if you have read it? He said: 
This Bill is just the first step on the way lo redistributing the electorate on a population basis - that is, equal numbers of people, not voters, in electorates. On this basis we could end up with equal populations in electorates but with 40,000 voters in one electorate and 60,000 voters in another, ls this one man one vote one value? 
Of course it is not. That is the very point which we make. By his own words  Senator Withers  has refuted his whole criticism of the Bill. Therefore I suggest to honourable senators opposite that if they take notice of what their leader says they must vote for the Bill. 

 - A do not think he will, because he has been instructed by his Federal secretary that in no circumstances is he to favour this Bill. If he did, the Country Party would be hostile to the Liberal Party. If there were a marriage - I will not say what the 'Australian' said about it - between the Country Party and the Democratic Labor Party, that would completely isolate the Liberal Party.  Senator Withers,  have you heard the latest? Tonight one of your members,  Senator Lillico,  said there should be more Country Party members in this chamber.  Senator Withers  nods his head in approval. Your Party loyalties are going down the sewer. You will finish up without a feather to fly with. I am sorry that  Senator Carrick  is not in the chamber because I, in company with  Senator Douglas  McClelland- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  -  (Senator Marriott)  - Order! There is too much audible conversation in the chamber. 
 Yes, from the Opposition. I regard  Senator Carrick  as one of my friendly foes. I sit on committees with him, and I appreciate his thoughts. I appreciate his sincerity of purpose. On this occasion I am sorry that I cannot agree with the way in which he referred to the report of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review. In view of what I have just said, I want to be very charitable to him. If I continue to get a number of interjections from the other side I will not be quite so charitable.  Senator Carrick  has been referred to as the man who led the previous Prime Minister to defeat. The honourable senator quoted part of the Committee's report. He said that the Committee said that there should not be a tolerance of  10  per cent. In justification of that statement he referred to part of the report. I want to read the relevant paragraphs of the report, and I want to emphasise some of the words contained therein. Paragraph  345  on page  49  of the report states: 
The Committee considered the extent of the problems which would arise from inserting in the Constitution a requirement that no division in a State should depart from the quota for that State to a greater  exent  than one-tenth more or one-tenth less. The Committee was assisting in its task by the then Chief Electoral Officer for the Commonwealth,  Mr L.  Ainsworth, who also obtained the views of the Commonwealth Electoral Officer and the SurveyorGeneral for each of the States. The preponderance of that opinion was clearly in favour of retaining the marginal allowance at the existing one-fifth fraction. 
I do not know whether  Senator Carrick  intended to convey that that was a recommendation of the Committee. I will be charitable and say that he did not mean that, but the very strong inference was that he meant it. He failed to read the following paragraph, paragraph  346,  which states: 
Undoubtedly, it would be easier to apply a onefifth  marging  than to work within the limits of a one-tenth marginal allowance from quota. Nevertheless, the Committee is satisfied that the problems of applying a one-tenth margin are quite manageable. 
That puts an entirely different complexion on that section of the report. If  Senator Carrick  were present I would appreciate it if he were to make clear how he read that section of the report. 
Did he? 
If he made it clear when he was speaking last night, why has he been taken to task on at least  3  occasions since then? If I have misinterpreted his remarks, I trust that I have been charitable.  But,  Senator Wright,  there have been others who probably have far more ability than I- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)  - Order! Address the Chair,  Senator Milliner. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, it seems strange that  Senator Wright  should interject on me, especially as be took part in the making of the unanimous decision and must have known when  Senator Carrick  was trying to indicate that what I have read - paragraph  345  of the report - was a part of the Committee's recommendation that that was not so. Yet he has not risen to his feet to say anything about that. 
I am not going to traverse what has happened in Great Britain, the United Kingdom, the United States of America, Ireland or anywhere else. I want to stick to what Australia has done; and what Australia has done surely must be a disgrace to the Parliaments of Australia.  Senator Lawrie,  a member of the Australian Country Party, had the temerity to get up tonight and criticise this legislation. He said that if this legislation went through the Parliament there would be a gerrymander. Fancy a member of the Australian Country Party saying that! I was going to describe the Australian Country Party as the ACP but I know that the supporters of the Party are a bit worried about that abbreviation lest it be confused with the Australian Communist Party. The Premier of Queensland,  Mr BjelkePetersen,  governs that State on a  19  per cent vote. Anybody from Queensland who is critical of any gerrymander in any other part of Australia or any other part of the world for that matter should hang his head in shame. 

 Senator McManus said a lot of things last night. Of course, it is easy to say half truths when there is nobody to deny them. I have heard plenty of  Senator McManus's  ilk say: 'I have a notebook in my pocket. If I were to read the names I have in it those people would shudder or be ashamed*. On being challenged to read them, they put their notebooks back in their pockets. That was typical of the approach of  Senator McManus  last night. I do not deign to answer some  Of  his utterances. They were completely unfounded. He said that some members of the Australian Labor Party say to him: 'You are still a good fellow'. On behalf of the Australian Labor Party, I invite  Senator McManus  to get up in this chamber and say who those persons are. It is easy to engage in that type of character assassination. I heard  Senator Gair  the other night name someone whom he said used to be a prominent member of the Groupers in Queensland and who had been seen kissing some North Vietnamese people. Rubbish! 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott&gt; - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 

 Senator LILLICO (Tasmania) -  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 1 claim to have been misrepresented by  Senator Milliner.  I did not say that I would like to see more Australian Country Party members of Parliament; I said that I would like to see more country representation in the Parliament. If that were to be by more members of the Country Party, well and good; 1 would not mind. But I did not say that 1 would like to see more Country Party members of Parliament. 
 Mr Acting Deputy President,  I accept entirely the explanation by  Senator Lillico.  I also accept his statement that if there were more Australian Country Party members of Parliament he would be happy about that- 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Media. It relates to the proposed points system as did the last question that he answered. Is it a fact that the televising of Australian rules football would qualify for 10 points under that points system as this game is merely a form of ballet? 

 Senator DOUGLAS MCCLELLANDBeing a former rugby league footballer, and as the honourable senator comes from Queensland, I can well understand the points suggested by him. However, the honourable senator must be aware that his suggestion if implemented would give Australian rules quite an advantage over rugby league. Therefore, he might wish to have another look at his proposal. 
I bring up the third report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
Has the Minister for the Media yet had an opportunity to read the report on daytime television produced by the Media Women's Action Group and the Women's Electoral Lobby? Can he say whether the implications of this report are that housewives who want to watch television during the day are dissatisfied with the programs that television stations provide for them? Will he approach the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to see whether the information contained in the report can be used to produce changes in the points system which the Board is currently considering for the establishment of standards for the Australian content in television? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. Now that the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations has agreed with the Australian Broadcasting Control Board that the points system for Australian content is workable, can the Minister inform the Senate whether this system provides fewer points for repeat programs? Can he say what the Government intends to do about the problem of repeats on television which so many members of the public find so irritating? 
 I present the fourth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
 I direct my question to the Minister for Customs and Excise. Until the Minister introduced a ban on the export of crocodile skins there existed a profitable export trade in these goods. Will the Minister indicate when he proposes to relax the export ban on crocodile skins? 
I rise because I feel a little concerned about what has been disclosed by  Senator McLaren.  He said that the names on the petition which  Senator Prowse  presented are those of people who live nowhere near the area in which the Ordinance we are debating has effect. 
There is an admission from the other side of the chamber that what I say could be factual and that there are signatures to this petition belonging to people who have no interest whatsoever in the matter that is before the Senate today. It disturbs me, even though it may not disturb  Senator Webster  of the Australian Country Party, that fictitious documents may be presented to this Parliament. Let me make the position perfectly clear. I do not associate anything bogus with  Senator Prowse.  We know him sufficiently well to say that a petition presented by him would have been presented in good faith. But  Senator McLaren  has had all the documents examined and the examination discloses that some people who signed the petition, on their own admission, live in Humpty Doo. They indicated on the petition that they live in Humpty Doo which is miles away from the area affected. 
I think it has a lot to do with it. These people have no association with the area.  Senator Webster  could advance the argument that if there is anything happen ing in the Australian Capital Territory and someone from Goulburn signed a petition relating to it that would be legitimate. Quite frankly I do not subscribe to that point of view. If there is a problem in an area surely the people in the area are the ones to petition for a  change 
 Senator Webster  asks a question which has been answered by  Senator McLaren  who said that someone from Hopetoun in Victoria signed. I would not know where Hopetoun is. The people there may play Australian rules football, and that is pretty significant. It appears to me that this is a very serious position. A petition has been presented in support of an argument and that petition has been rebutted by a member of the Senate. Let us forget party politics. That is the actual position. Again I say with all the emphasis at my command that I am not suggesting that there was anything wrong with  Senator Prowse  presenting the petition. But if a petition is presented, is examined exhaustively by a member of the Senate and is proven by analysis not to reflect the opinion of the people who live in the area affected, I submit with respect that we are entitled to say - at least 1 will say it - that the matter should be held over for further consideration to determine whether what has prompted the action taken here today is the actual position. 
If the residents in the area concerned are critical of this Ordinance that will influence me to a substantial extent, but when the case for the disallowance of an ordinance is based on a petition that appears, to me at least, to be invalid, I submit with respect that the Senate should defer consideration of the matter and make its own investigation in its own appropriate way. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Media. Will the information centre opened by the Minister at the Australian Government Publishing Service Book Centre in Canberra last week duplicate or cut across the information section of the Department of the Capital Territory? 
I  direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the removal of certain taxation provisions for primary producers as outlined in last week's Budget and ask the Minister: Where does the farmer now stand in relation to the city dweller in regard to taxation? 
Has the Minister for the Media made statements from time to time that there should be greater public access to broadcasting and television facilities in Australia? Has he taken any action to bring this about? 
I bring up the reports from the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory on the 52nd, 53rd and 54th series of proposed variations to the plan of the layout of the city of Canberra and its environs. 
Ordered tha: the reports be printed. 
I ask for leave to make a short statement in relation to the report*. 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Media in his capacity as Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Has his attention been drawn to a newspaper report on the front page of this morning's 'Sydney Morning Herald ' to the effect that the Innisfail Evening Advocate', which claims to be Australia's smallest daily newspaper, may have to close at the end of the month unless the proposed increase in postal charges is stopped? Is the Minister concerned that the staff of this paper, which serves the Innisfail region, could be out of work on 28 September? 
Has the attention of the Minister for the Media been drawn to a report that there has been a delay in the completion of the seventh stage television development program which will affect Queensland stations at Roma, Miles and Emerald? What is the cause of the delay and when is it expected that the 3 stations will commence operation? 
Will the AttorneyGeneral indicate to the Senate whether a book bounty was paid to the author of 'The Little Red Schoolbook' by the previous Government? Will he confirm that  Senator Wright  was a Minister in that Government? 
Thank you,  Mr President.  I shall do so with a great amount of pleasure.  Mr Snedden,  the Leader of the Liberal Party in the House of Representatives, asked this question: 
In the expected application of the incomes power which the Australian Government hopes to obtain does the Prime Minister agree that it will involve imposing a maximum income which can be charged and paid and that it will create an offence, which will be a criminal offence, for exceeding it? 
The Prime Minister answered no. That is an entirely different proposition to what  Senator Webster  put. If  Senator Marriott,  who is trying to interject, wants to come into this matter he may do so too. 

 - Senator Greenwood, the great democrat who has refused the Leader of our Party leave to do something in the Senate on more than one occasion, will keep. I shall read the second part of the question by honourable senator's great and glorious Leader. I ask honourable senators to listen to this insulting question. 
Very well. The second question asked by the Leader of the Liberal Party in another place was this: 
Will the same criminality apply to paying more wages than are fixed by his Government as would apply to charging a bigger price than is fixed by his Government? 
The Prime Minister quite rightly said no. That is an entirely different proposition to what was put to the Senate today by  Senator Webster  and backed up by  Senator Wright.  Another question was asked of the Prime Minister by the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman). Mr Jarman  said this: 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. If the 2 proposed amendments to the Constitution to give the Government control over prices and incomes are passed at the referendum to be held later this year, will he assure the House that his Government will use both powers and not just the power over prices? 
The Prime Minister did not answer 'No', as was said by  Senator Webster  and  Senator Wright.  He said: 'I would expect so'. What a different proposition that is from what has been put to the Senate today. We have had  Senator Webster  and  Senator Wright  trying, with all the vehemence at their disposal, to apply character assassination not to  Mr Whitlam  but to the Prime Minister of Australia. These are the tactics that they would use to try, unsuccessfully I would say, to defeat what is regarded by the majority of honourable senators as the correct procedure to be adopted in this case. I am sorry that I must be the one to say to honourable senators on the other side: We will accept your criticisms as an Opposition; we will not accept your untruthful statements. 
Motion (by  Senator Greenwood)  agreed to: 
That  Senator Milliner  table the documents from which he quoted. 
May I first indicate to you,  Mr President,  and to honourable senators that I propose to move an amendment to this motion. The amendment has been circulated. Before speaking to that amendment I want to congratulate  Senator Hannan, Senator Carrick, Senator Durack, Senator James  McClelland and  Senator McManus  on the temperate and proper way in which this debate has been conducted tonight. It has been conducted in an atmosphere of an international sphere of influence. That is the way in which I believe it should be conducted from here on. Consequently I resist the temptation to answer some of the very unimpressive remarks made by  Senator Greenwood.  We knew what his attitude would be and consequently I offer no congratulations to him. I do congratulate the other speakers who have spoken to this motion tonight. 
It may be of interest to honourable senators to know that some 18 months or 2 years ago the Australian Labor Party resolved at a meeting of Caucus- the word 'Caucus' is one which  Senator Greenwood  and others like to deride- that the matter of the persecution of Jews in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics should be referred to the international socialist parties. (Quorum formed) I was saying that at a meeting of the Australian Labor Party some 1 8 months or 2 years ago it was resolved that there should be forwarded to the international socialist parties throughout the world the text of a resolution passed at our meeting deploring attacks by the Soviet Union on some sections of the Jewish fraternity. We asked that this matter be referred to the United Nations and I believe that was done. I know that tonight we are up against the clock and I will not delay the Senate any further except to say that I am sorry indeed that a motion of this nature could not have been discussed in an atmosphere of unanimity between the parties. 
I rise only because of what has been said by  Senator Wood.  I would subscribe substantially to what he has said about the Groom brothers.  Senator Wood  would realize that perhaps I know the Groom brothers far more intimately than does anybody in this chamber. I think he would be the first to acknowledge that I have done everything I can to assist them. 
Thank you,  Senator. The  Groom brothers have been producing newspapers for many years and, if I may say so, the Printing Industry Employees Union of Australia has assisted them over the years. If they were asked they would be the first to acknowledge that that is so. The Union has assisted them with staff and paper problems and now is assisting them with their telecommunication problems. It is interesting to note that when I first heard the news of the possible closure of this newspaper I immediately contacted  Mr George  Groom and he told me of their difficulties. I spoke with  Senator Douglas  McClelland and he told me that he could not possibly see why the newspaper would have to close at the end of September because the problems that the newspaper would experience, if it did experience them, would not arise until March of next year. I do not know why the firm is insisting that it must close next month. As  Senator Wood  said, it has had discussions with representatives of the General Post Office who have suggested that it install a telex. Surely if a firm wishes to stay in business it has to have something like modern day standards. I do not think it is endeavouring to keep up with the times when it relies on the old technique of obtaining news by telegrams from Brisbane to Innisfail. I feel reasonably sure that the General Post Office would have assisted in the installation of a telex if there had been agreement on the installation of this machine. This would have overcome the firm's difficulties substantially. The firm elects not to introduce a telex system. That is entirely its responsibility. I repeat that tremendous assistance has been offered to the firm. If it elects to close its doors to business, that is its responsibility. 
The firm is a very old, established business. It is not just a newspaper office. It has had a commercial printing shop for as many years as I can remember, and I was at least 20 years the Secretary of the union. The firm always had a prosperous commercial printing establishment. So I do not think the business will go out of production entirely. I believe that the commercial printing side would be a profitable undertaking for the r:/m. Like  Senator Wood,  I deplore the fact that a newspaper is going out of business. It is the lifeblood of a community. I am the first to acknowledge that fact. I know just what the newspaper means to the people of Innisfail. It is a most unusual newspaper inasmuch as it is published 5 days a week. It is not published d ur.ing the weekend. If there is a holiday during the week it is not published. So it is an unusual type of newspaper, as honourable senators would agree. 
That is quite correct, i do not blame him for that. I applaud him. I know that the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen &gt; arranged for his officers to see Mr Groom to see what could be done to assist. If Mr Groom and the proprietors of the 'Evening Advocate' in Innisfail wish to continue that old style of production, I do not think they can blame the Government entirely for all their difficulties. I believe that if they introduced the telex system they will still be able to operate in a quite worthwhile and profitable manner. I close on this note: I am concerned that a provincial newspaper in Queensland should be going out of production. I hope that the company will not close its doors at the end of this month. On the other hand, I trust that it will pursue the negotiations with representatives of the PostmasterGeneral's Department to see what can be done to assist. I know that it will get a lot of assistance from a lot of people in Queensland, as it has in the past. 
-I present the sixth report of the publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
I am pleased to be able to rise after  Senator Wright  has spoken to indicate that if ever there was an infantile approach to industrialism, we have heard it tonight. I am sorry that  Senator Greenwood  did not try to explain why he omitted from the Government's proposed amendment to clause 6 the words 'in an industrial establishment or elsewhere', because I believe it is important that those words should appear in the legislation. The clause loses a lot of its value without those words. I hope that  Senator Greenwood  listens to what I will say; I think he will. Let us take the situation of a shop steward or a shop representative who is negotiating in an area outside the establishment but nevertheless is connected with a dispute that has occurred on the job. I believe it is important that the words or elsewhere' should be included in the legislation otherwise the shop steward, the union secretary or the union organiser who may be negotiating is at a disadvantage. 
With due respect, it does not because it could be - 

 - Senator Greenwood asked me a question. Action under this clause could be taken in an entirely different atmosphere from that contemplated by this legislation. It could be taken away from an industrial act. I am saying that it should be confined to an industrial act, wherever it occurs, and I do not think we can get away from that. If there is an argument on an industrial issue, surely it should be determined on an industrial basis and not on any other basis. I believe that the Opposition has deliberately omitted the word 'impliedly' from clause 6. That is a very important word, and  Senator Greenwood  knows the value of words. I refer to a situation in my State to indicate how words could be construed to penalise an employee. The Queensland Arbitration Act provided for long service leave on the basis that an employee would not receive long service leave if he were dismissed for misconduct. I ask  Senator Greenwood  to dwell on that word 'misconduct'. 
No, just misconduct. I thank the honourable senator for his interjection because it reminds me of a case which stresses the importance of words. A worker who had 19 years continuous and good service with a firm punched his mate's clocking-off card one night. He clocked off for his mate so that his mate could get off work 5 minutes early. The employer dismissed him and would not give him any pro rata pay in lieu of long service leave. The case was taken to court, and the court upheld the employer. Why argue? It was misconduct. He punched his work mate's card; he punched off for his mate. It was misconduct. The law was subsequently amended to read 'wilful misconduct'. That is the term which  Senator Greenwood  used in his interjection. Had the term 'wilful misconduct' been in the law previously the workman could not have been dismissed for punching his mate's card because that would not have been wilful misconduct. The fellow had 19 years service. It surely would not be wilful misconduct to help his mate on one occasion in 19 years. I think  Senator Greenwood  would be the first to agree with me on that. Therefore, I suggest that the word 'impliedly' is important. There are many things in industrial life which cannot be forecast. I do not care what is in the rules of an organisation or what is in an award covering employees; a rule might say that members shall not engage in a dispute without first taking a secret ballot or something of that nature, but if something happens on the job the members will not worry about that rule; they will stop work. 
I am not. Let me give the honourable senator a classic example of such an occurrence, if he needs one. An employee, unfortunately, had put his brother in a mental institution on the Friday. On the Saturday he came to work. The foreman said to him: 'Jack, I don't know what's doing with you today. You 're mooning around the office, and I don't know what's wrong with you. I think you're going nuts'. The foreman did not know that the worker had put his brother in a mental institution the day before. The worker thought that the foreman was poking fun at him. He reacted immediately, as one would expect him to react. The foreman finished on the floor. The man who struck the foreman was sacked on the spot by the employer. I did all that I possibly could to prevail on the employer not to be so stupid about the matter. I suggested that the employer suspend the worker for the day so that there would not be any difficulty on the job for the rest of the day. The employer refused point blank. He insisted that the man be dismissed because he had struck his foreman. 
I ask the honourable senator to listen to me. On behalf of the worker, I did everything possible to get the employer to withdraw the dismissal. I suggested that the employer make it a suspension, if he liked, until Monday morning when we could talk it over calmly. He refused point blank.  Senator Greenwood,  what do you think the worker's mates did? You know what his mates did. They just walked off the job. It would not have mattered if I or any executive officer of the union had told them to stay on the job, they would have walked off the job. They are the facts of life. That is why I say that it is important to retain the word 'impliedly'. 
Of course it was unlawful according to the laws of the land, the Arbitration Court, the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, the rules of the union and everything. But they did it. Every worker would do so under similar circumstances. I can give the honourable senator not one but 20 instances of that happening nearly every day of the week. 
On the contrary, I am saying that they could have been dismissed.  Senator Greenwood  says that the word impliedly ' is not important. I say that it is important. How could a union secretary- forget about the shop steward for one moment- know that he is to negotiate with an employer about an industrial dispute which has happened on the job? Surely there must be protection for him if there is an implied order from his members as to what he should do. If the word is omitted, he has no protection. He can be challenged and charged under all sorts of regulations which might be introduced. It does not matter what words are in the confounded legislation, the facts of life are that workers will respond to unfair treatment. It does not matter what the Government says or what the Opposition says, if a group of workers is being treated unfairly- I think  Senator Greenwood  will agree with me that the worker was treated unfairly in the case which I have mentionedthey will not care what is in any regulation; they will stop work to protect their interests. I hope that the majority of honourable senators will reject the amendment moved by  Senator Greenwood. 
Perhaps I may be permitted to refer to the difficulty that will present itself in the matter of this amendment. If I read to the Committee the words of the amendment honourable senators will probably understand where it must fail under its own weight. The amendment reads: 
A member of the Commission shall not certify a memorandum in accordance with this section unless, in relation to each organisation that is a party to the agreement to which the memorandum relates, there is produced to him a statutory declaration by an officer authorised by the Committee of management of the organisation declaring that the committee of management has approved the principal terms of the agreement. 
That amendment envisages that there shall be more than one organisation party to the agreement. I do not know whether  Senator Greenwood  has that understanding of the amendment, but that is my view because it says in relation to each organisation that is a party to the agreement'. Consider the situation in a metal trades shop. 
In the oil industry or any industry that you care to choose, there could be members of 6 separate unions working within that establishment. To put the situation at its worst, if there is an industrial dispute in that establishment and agreement is reached on some issue, each party to that agreement would, in accordance with the proposed amendment, be required to have the approval of the board of management of the union authorised by a responsible officer of that union. 
-I wonder how long it would take in those circumstances to obtain that authorisation. It must take a long while to do anything of that nature. 
Apparently  Senator Webster  wants to say something. I shall wait to hear whether he has finished his conversation. 
Have you finished,  Senator Webster? 
Then I shall wait. 
All unions do not necessarily have the same rules. A union might have rules which provide for quarterly meetings of the board of management and the executive may meet between meetings of the board of management. The union might have a federal conference annually and a federal executive dealing with business between annual conferences. Another union might have an entirely different system. Consequently it might not be so easy as  Senator Greenwood  might think to secure the approval of the board of management when the various unions involved have different rules. Surely the first step in resolving a dispute is on the job rather than at the conference table. The dispute is resolved when members on the job decide whether they will accept some proposal coming from a conference. Settlement of a dispute starts on the job, not in the board room of the union or wherever the committee of management or executive of the union may meet. The industrial matter involved might relate to one shop only, perhaps involving a 10-minute rest point period in the morning. That would have no relationship to any other establishment in that industry. The workers on that job might say, because of certain circumstances- perhaps it is heat, perhaps it is cold, or it may be anythingthat they are entitled to a 10-minute rest period during the morning or afternoon. If a dispute arises it will be resolved on the job in that establishment. The men on the job can accept or reject whatever the negotiating committee brings before them by way of terms of settlement. If the approval of boards of management  of  such like has to be waited for I am afraid there will be difficult times and the dispute could break out again. They are the matters which I put before you,  Mr Chairman.  Has  Senator Webster  finished? 
Have you finished again? 
Have you finished magging? Have you finished interrupting? 
THE TEMPORARY  CHAIRMAN -(Senator Lawrie)-  Order! The honourable senator should address the Chair. 
I had been addressing the Chair. I am trying to address the Chair but I am being interrupted by some stupid unintelligible remark. I believe that the wording of the proposal put forward by the Government has more merit than the proposal submitted by the Opposition. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Services and Property. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the dispute within the ranks of the Queensland Country Party members in which it is disclosed that important members of the Country Party organisation have trenchantly criticised 4 Country Party Cabinet Ministers for alleged failure to implement Country Party policy? Is he also aware of the fact that one Country Party member of the State Parliament has been informed that his re-endorsement for the next election is in jeopardy unless he bows his knee to the outside directions of his Party? 
I urge the Opposition not to proceed with the amendment. If it is carried it could prejudice good working arrangements. In an industry, different unions operate in the same establishment. Take, for instance, an establishment in which clerks, boilermakers, blacksmiths and other tradesmen work. That establishment would have what is known as a shop committee. It would comprise representatives of each union. Quite frequently a union organiser going into the establishment would be required to speak to somebody who is not a member of his union. For instance, an organiser from the Amalgamated 
Engineering Union may be required to speak to a representative of the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society of Australia or to a representative of the Federated Clerks Union. An organiser from the Clerks Union may go into the establishment and may have to speak to employees who are not members of the Clerics Union. Under those circumstances, the Opposition amendment could present a lot of unnecessary difficulty. 
I do not know whether the Oppositon knows this, but I would say that on 99.9 per cent of the occasions on which a union organiser goes into an establishment he goes first to the employer or the employer's representative. That is a common courtesy. I would say that the employer would do exactly the same if he visited a union establishment. I am not trying to make out that the unions are ultra courteous. They are not; they just show the common courtesies that would be extended by a stranger coming in to a person's home. The unions regard the establishment as belonging to the employer as it does. When they are entering an establishment they pay the common courtesy of going to the employer or to the employer's representative.  Senator Greenwood  sits there with that knowing look on his face. 
No, I do not think so. The honourable senator should be fair. That is not so at all. This clause is regarded in trade union circles as one of the most important provisions in the legislation, namely, the right of entry. By its amendment the Opposition is attempting to restrict that right of entry which could cause complications. I am trying to point out to the honourable senator - 
If  Senator Greenwood  wants a running battle with me on these issues, he may have it. 
The honourable senator says 'God forbid', and that suits me too. The point is that if the Opposition proceeds with this amendment it will cause difficulties in industry, and surely the object of everybody should be to avoid difficulties in industry. I have indicated to the honourable senator how this amendment will operate if he proceeds with it. I have tried to show, too, that unions, as more than a general proposition, exercise some degree of courtesy when they enter an establishment. If the Opposition has its way it will break down many of the practices that have been built up over the years which employers themselves recognise. Employers recognise shop committees in establishments where there is a multiplicity of unions operating. The employers themselves encourage the establishment of shop committees. In these circumstances if the Opposition proceeds with its amendment then I say, with respect, that it will not assist industry; it will be going out of its way to create difficulties for industry. 
-I am sorry that I heard in this chamber today a member of the legal fraternity suggest that a judge of the Industrial Court or of any other jurisdiction could be influenced by or could take directions from a government. In effect, that is what  Senator Wright  said. He claimed that the Government had an ulterior motive for inserting this clause. He said that it would enable the Government to stack the Industrial Court. Inherent in that statement is the suggestion that the Government could influence the judicial appointees to bring down decisions in favour of the Government. Surely  Senator Wright,  with his lengthy legal experience, ought not to suggest such a thing. But he has done so. It appears to me that there is some credence to be given to the statement which I heard recently that if the Liberal-Country Party Government had been reelected  Senator Wright  would possibly have been appointed to the judiciary. In view of the fact that it was not re-elected, he now claims - 
-I said only that I had heard it; I did not say whether or not it was right. 
Did you?  Senator Wright's  criticism falls to the ground. He is wrong to criticise the judiciary. I was amazed also to hear  Senator Greenwood  say that as a result of his experience as Attorney-General - 

 - Senator McManus will be appointed to the Vatican shortly. That will fix him.  Senator Greenwood  said that as a result of his short- thank goodness- term as AttorneyGeneral he was not sure that these judges had been overworked, or words to that effect. He said it in a very kindly way. Nevertheless, the inference was that they were not at all times fully occupied in the Industrial Court. That would be true. I say that for an entirely different reason from  Senator Greenwood's  reason. I believe that he, with his legal training, should know that all judges in all jurisdictions are required to continue their research into every field of endeavour in the legal profession. While they may not be engaged 100 percent in the duties for which they were appointed, it does not necessarily follow that they are not working.  Senator Greenwood  said, in his ignorance of the whole system of arbitration, that because an Industrial Court judge is not working full time in administering the affairs of the Industrial Court, he is not working. How do you,  Mr ex-Attorney-General,  know that the judge of the Industrial Court is not out doing splendid work resolving disputes? Do you,  Mr ex-Attorney-General,  know on how many occasions unions and employers are in conference, they cannot resolve a particular difficulty, they do not want to apply to the Industrial Court, so they seek the assistance of a judge of the Industrial Court to resolve their difficulties? You would not know the first thing about it. What do you think the Queensland Industrial Court did in the Mount Isa Mines dispute, which went on for 9 months? I, or anybody else who was associated with that dispute, could tell you that a member of the Queensland Industrial Court continually went to Mount Isa during those 9 months in an endeavour to settle that dispute. 
The honourable senator said all these things. Now he is being told the situation. The insertion of the clause does not necessarily mean that we will appoint another 10, 12 or any other number of judges. It is there in the event of its being necessary to appoint additional judges. I believe that it is an appropriate way to amend the Act. 
-I am sorry that  Senator Greenwood  finished on that note. If he had his way, no one from the trade union movement or from the employers associations or anyone else could possibly hope to be appointed as an inspector. In effect, that is what he said. He said that it is all right to appoint these people as Conciliation and Arbitration Commissioners, but they cannot be appointed as inspectors. Surely that is an absurd situation. It is obvious, I think, that  Senator Greenwood  did not have his heart in the argument. He let  Senator Wright  move the amendment, knowing that it would be defeated.  Senator Wright  made an aside a moment ago which I hope will not be reported in Hansard. He indicated that this proposition was being put forward to benefit one particular person.  Senator Wright  is on the brink of defeat and I suggest that he accept it. 

<graphic href="057232197310256_37_7_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="057232197310256_37_7_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the negative. 
Clause agreed to. 
Postponed clause 5 agreed to. 
Clauses 55 and 56 agreed to. 
Clauses 57 and 58- by leave- taken together. 
-I present the Seventh Report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
I believe it is appropriate that we should remember that the legislation seeks to establish a Schools Commission. With respect, many members of the Opposition have failed to take that into account tonight. They have gone into a wide excursion on matters other than the one under discussion.  Senator McManus  tonight said, I believe quite fairly, that other people should be on the Commission apart from those nominated by the Government. I hope I am not reporting him incorrectly but I think he said that there are many voluntary organisations involved in education which should be represented on the Commission and that they should appoint their own representatives. It is easy to say those things. But what about the number of voluntary organisations in the field of education? Who will nominate? Who will elect? Many organisations, such as parents and citizens associations and school committees, will be involved in the suggestion of  Senator McManus.  I suggest that in those circumstances some of the criticisms and in fact some of the serious suggestions offered for what the honourable senator believes to be the improvement of the legislation will fall by the wayside. 
I now come to the most important matter. I believe it is most important because, of all the principal parties that contested the Federal election in 1972, the Australian Labor Party was the only party which gave sufficient attention to this matter to warrant the consideration of the people of Australia. I was most amazed tonight to hear members of the Australian Country Party enter into the debate.  Senator Drake-Brockman,  on behalf of the Country Party, spoke at some length on this matter. Let me read the policy of the Country Party at the 1972 election. 1 dearly hope that some honourable senator will ask me to table this document when I have concluded. I shall be most disappointed if I am not asked to do so. It is an amazing education policy. The Country Party policy states: 
The Country Party gives, and believes the nation must give, a high priority to education. 
We seek to achieve the greatest possible equality and balance in educational opportunity. We want to see the overall quality of education improved at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels. 
The Country Party remains concerned at the special difficulties facing children and parents in country areas in gaining access to all levels of education. We see the Government's decision to provide $400 a year to help the isolated child as a practical step towards reducing these inequalities. The Country Party will pursue its objective of giving country students greater equality of opportunity with their city counterparts. 
That was the policy of the Country Party which was put to the people of Australia at the election of 1 972. Let me read one pan again. It states: 
The Country Party remains concerned at the special difficulties facing children and parents in country areas in gaining access to all levels of education. We see the Government's decision to provide $400 a year to help the isolated child as a practical step towards reducing these inequalities. 
That is not a factual statement. The 5 governments prior to the present Labor Government refused all overtures to give any assistance whatsoever to children having education difficulties in isolated areas. 
Honourable senators will know that the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts is investigating this issue at present and is going to Bourke on Friday to take evidence there. Not one member of the Country Party is on that Committee. How insincere can the Country Party be when it states policies of that nature. Let me refer again to the $400. The Country Party says the provision of that amount is a magnificent effort. One of the first things that the Australian Labor Party did when it gained office and before there were any pressures at all from any organisations was to give to the parents of children in isolated areas an amount of $1,004 a year towards the education of those children. 
The Democratic Labor Party is not even represented on the Committee. What I have said will indicate to the Senate that that is the attitude of the Country Party to education in Australia. That is the policy that the Country Party put before the people of Australia at the 1972 Federal election. I hope that someone challenges me to table that document which, for the information of honourable senators, came from the research section of the Parliamentary Library. Now let me come to the Liberal Party policy. This is the magnificent policy which the Liberal Party put to the people of Australia in the 1972 Federal election. With the aid of an autocue  Mr McMahon,  the Prime Minister as he was then, said: 
Turning to education- which touches the lives of all of us in a dozen different ways. 
What an astounding statement. But listen to the next paragraph.  Mr McMahon  said: 
We need better schools, more teachers and more facilities. 
After 23 years in office the then Prime Minister on behalf of the Liberal Party said: 'We need better schools, more teachers and more facilities'. The Teachers Federation had been telling that Government for many years that that was the problem in education. But it was not until the Government came to an election that it realised that that was the problem and consequently it said: 'We need better schools' and so on. Have honourable senators heard anything of a more hypocritical nature than that statement?  Mr McMahon  went on to say: 
In the current financial year the Commonwealth is providing directly and indirectly - 
Directly more than indirectly- more than half of the $ 1,900m being spent on education in Australia. 
This was not coming out with any forthright statement of how much the Government was spending but relying on a vague statement which would defy any economic expert to determine what the whole thing meant. Then the Liberal Party Prime Minister went a little further to say: 
The initiatives we have taken during the last 12 months have broadened and developed the Commonwealth's involvement in the education of your children. 
There are several new measures we now plan to introduce in particular areas of education. 
These are the areas which after 23 years of government the Liberal Party found were new. Just listen to them: 
We will provide $25m a year over the next 3 financial years for capital and recurring expenditure to assist the States in their efforts to expand pre-school education. 
The Liberal Party had found at last that preschool education is important though its Ministers had been going overseas in the 23 years supposedly to be studying education. They had seen what pre-school facilities were given to children overseas, and had then come back and had never done a thing about it. But when they came before the electors they found that we were inadequately served by pre-school centres and said they were going to do something about them, and that in the concept of the Liberal Party is new. It is as old hat as lace-up boots. The policy speech went on: 
We will expand our present commitment to technical education and continue it into the future, allocating not less than $2Om a year 
The value of technical training for potential tradesmen had been pointed out to the Liberal Party time and time again. Now the Liberal Party was going to put in $20m a year for technical education. I will come in a moment to what I hope is a fair analysis of that Party's expenditure. 
One of your colleagues was thrown out this morning and that might happen to you if you are not careful. The policy speech of this grand Liberal Party went on: 
We will also double the number of technical scholarships to 5,000 from the beginning of 1974, with emphasis on . . . those students from low income families. 
Who caused the low income families? I tell members of the Opposition that their former Government did so by restricting workers on every occasion that they sought to improve their financial position and their industrial conditions. Who fought the teachers of this country when they sought a better way of life and a better standard of pay for the way in which they had to teach the children of Australia? You were the people who did that. You were the people who forced on the community low income families. You were the people who forced so many people out of work that everybody was scared of what was going to happen next, yet you had the audacity to put a statement like that in your policy speech. The speech went on: 
We will give an education allowance of $400 a year free of means test for children in isolated areas who must live away from home in order to attend school or who have to be taught at home. 
I say to honourable senators opposite: Parents from isolated areas made representations continually to you over this subject and you continually refused to provide anything of this nature. But you came to an election and you said you were going to give $400 for each child. A very good idea, but it is less than half of what we gave without one request from those people. 
We never thought of it? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order!  Senator Milliner,  I take leave to remind you that the Bill is the Schools Commission Bill and that you have ranged a fair way over the area. I would be glad if you would return to the general area of the discussion. 
Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I apologise for the interruption. The situation is that the policy of the Liberal Party went on in this way all through the speech. The Liberal Party said: 'We reject Labor's socalled needs test on independent schools'. It rejected the idea of finding out what is required by the people of Australia so that the school children of Australia might be better educated. 
You say 'rubbish'. You will not be here much longer to say that, so I will not say anything more about you.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I hope you will bear with me because I propose to read to you the policy of the Australian Labor Party. I associate it directly with the Bill, because we say this: 
It is our basic proposition that the people are entitled to know. It is our basic belief that the people will respond to national needs once they know those needs. It is in educationthe needs of our schools- that we will give prime expression to that proposition and that belief. 
Under the heading 'Schools' the following statement is made: 
The most rapidly growing sector of public spending under a Labour Government will bc education. Education should be the great instrument for the promotion of equality. Under the Liberals it has become a weapon for perpetuating inequality and promoting privilege. For example, the pupils of State and Catholic schools have had less than half as good an opportunity as the pupils of non-Catholic independent schools to gain Commonwealth secondary scholarships, and very much less than half the opportunity of completing their secondary education. 
The Labor Party is determined that every child who embarks on secondary eduction in 1973 shall, irrespective of school or location, have as good an opportunity as any other child of completing his secondary education and continuing his education further. The Labor Party believes that the Commonwealth should give most assistance to those schools, primary and secondary, whose pupils need most assistance. 
Would any honourable senator argue that that is not a sound philosophy? The speech continued: 
Education is the prime example of a community service which should involve the entire community- not just the Education Departments and the Catholic school authorities and the Headmaster's Conference, not just parents and teachers, but the taxpayers as a whole. The quality of the community's response to the needs of the education system will determine the quality of the system. But the community must first know and understand the needs. We reject the proposition that administrative convenience should over-ride the real needs of schools. 
Now,  Senator Little,  you will shortly be getting a spell for a few days and you will be able to get some of that pornographic literature from your newsagency in Melbourne. 
The  ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENT  (Senator Davidson)-  Order!  Senator Milliner,  you cannot go on like that. 
The speech continued: 
The Australian Labor Party believes that the Commonwealth should adopt the same methods to assist schools as it has adopted to assist universities and colleges of advanced education- through a Commission. 
This is the important section of the policy. The Labor Party has not put forward policies like the policies from the Australian Country Party and the Liberal Party which I have read to the Senate. The policy speech continued: 
We will establish an Australian Schools Commission to examine and determine the needs of students in Government and non-government primary, secondary and technical schools. 
That is the policy of the Australian Labor Party put to the people of Australia and overwhelmingly supported by the people of Australia. 
I have told honourable senators what we have done to assist the parents of children in isolated areas. I would now like to read what the Budget Speech had to say on education. It stated: 
For this Government, education is a top priority - 
This is what we promised the people of Australia 
It constitutes the fastest growing component of the Budget. We will provide $843m for education in 1973-74, an increase of $404m or 92 per cent on last year. There will be a further substantial rise in 1974-75 as the programs commencing in 1974 come fully into effect 
Members of the Opposition tried to deny the arguments that the Australian Labor Party has put forward although they contain policies which must be to the advantage of all sections of the community. I ask honourable senators to support the Bill, which is one of the most progressive pieces of legislation that has been introduced into this chamber for the past 25 years. 
I believe that these Bills have received the complete support of all honourable senators, and that is understandable, because they have as their objective assistance to handicapped people. The hearts of all Australians generally go out to those who are less fortunate than themselves. Let me indicate how far politics departs from this area of responsibility.  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield went overseas recently to represent the Australian people at a world wide conference. She did a particularly good job. She is not of our political colour. Nevertheless the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  felt that because of her interest in activities of this type over the years she would be an appropriate person to represent Australia at that conference. I congratulate her on the excellent way in which she handled the situation. I mention that merely to indicate that there is no politics on either side in these matters. 
There are many areas in which public spirited people do an excellent job in this regard. I know that we could speak of our experiences and of how we have been associated with sheltered workshops or workshops for handicapped people. I have tried to play my humble part in assisting a sheltered workshop known as Help Industries, but mine is a very minor role; I would be the first to acknowledge this. Nevertheless, I have been on the committee of that workshop since its inception and I hope that I have been able to do something, in some small measure, to assist. I wish to place on record my thanks to the retiring  chairman  of Help Industries in Queensland,  Mr Wally  Best. I do not know whether he has any other name; I refer to him affectionately as Wally because that is how he is known in all sections of the community in Brisbane. He has done a particularly good job for 
Help Industries and I would not like this opportunity to pass without paying tribute to the work which he has done on behalf of Help Industries in Brisbane. I refer also to the work of  Mr Andy  Gibson, who was Regional Director of the Department of Labour and National Service in Queensland and who recently was promotedsome might say demoted -to the State Industrial Commission in Queensland. I am sure that it is a promotion and a recognition, in part, of the work which he did for Help Industries and for other organisations when he was Regional Director of Labour and National Service in Brisbane. 
I was interested to hear  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield say that in America and Great Britain certain contracts require the Government to give work to sheltered workshops provided they can meet time schedules and conditions of this nature. I think that this matter should be pursued. I offer to the advisers of the Minister the suggestion that they should pursue this matter to see whether they can get these contracts for perusal. Australia works differently from the United States and Great Britain. Nevertheless, I believe it would be of advantage to have such contracts. We may be able to modify them, expand them or see whether we can do something about them. 
A thought which I would offer to the Minister is that at times it is almost impossible for sheltered workshops to pay their way. I know that quite frequently at the end of the month they worry about the trading arrangements for the month. We cannot blame anybody. We cannot expect people in sheltered workshops to be on the job 100 per cent of the working week. Because of their difficulties it is physically impossible for them to do so. Consequently, the work gets behind. The person who gives us the job to do may be quite interested in our work; but, after all, he is in business and he wishes to meet time schedules. Therefore, frequently we find at the end of a month that our trading balance is not as healthy as it should be, because of the circumstances which I have related- and there are numerous others. 
I therefore offer to the Minister the suggestion that I have recommended: If the AuditorGeneral or somebody else of that status, at the end of a year for a struggling sheltered workshop or a workshop which employs handicapped persons, feels that there has been a genuine attempt by the people concerned to run the organisation as efficiently as possible he should have the authority to ask or require the Government to recompense the organisation for any losses that it has incurred during that year. I offer that suggestion to the Minister because I know that what I have outlined can be a problem. 

 Senator Dame Nancy Buttfield has referred to Bedford Industries. We are not all as efficient as Bedford Industries. It has had a long association with this activity. I know the organisation; I have visited its premises; and I know just how efficient it is. But I believe that in other circumstances in other States- I can speak only of my own Statesheltered workshops have faced financial difficulties because of the nature of their work. In no circumstances do I wish it to be taken that the people running sheltered workshops are inefficient, negligent or anything of that kind. The problem arises just from the nature of the work. I therefore offer to the Minister my thoughts in that direction. In company with other senators, I congratulate the Government on this progressive legislation. I know that the Government will continue the good work that has been accomplished over the years by governments of all political characters and that we all will strive to do even better in the future for those who are unable to help themselves. 
I  am sorry, but  I  must rise to oppose the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. In view of the concern expressed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Greenwood,  in relation to the appointment of  Mr Young  to the staff of the Prime Minister, can the Minister inform the Senate whether it is a fact that the Attorney-General in the McMahon Government,  Senator Greenwood,  employed on his personal staff a gentleman who is a State executive member and office-bearer of the Young Liberals organisation in Victoria. 
One could be really amused tonight by the long dissertation given by  Senator Wright  from the honourable State of Tasmania. He would deny representation to 1 80,000 people in the Northern Territory but yet he is one of 10 honourable senators who represent 40,000 people in Tasmania. Consequently we have the situation where 10 senators from Tasmania, who represent 40,000 people, or one senator for every 4,000 people, are denying the right of representation to 1 80,000 people. 
Let us take it as 120,000 people.  Senator Little,  you are not even in your seat and if you continue to interject I might say something unkind about you. This attitude shows how foolish are the arguments of that nature that can be advanced. I repeat that a senator is appealing to this Senate and criticising the Government for introducing legislation which will give representation on the basis of one senator for 120,000 people or 180,000 people when he himself represents on a proportional basis 4,000 people. 
Well, 40,000 people. How could anybody justify such an argument as that? But in an attempt to excuse himself and those who oppose the legislation  Senator Wright  referred to the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review which sat in 1959. It is unfortunate for  Senator Wright  that I happen to have a copy of that report before me. It has been referred to in the Senate before but I think it appropriate that I say, firstly, why this Joint Committee was set up. The reason is shown on page 1 as follows: 
APPOINTMENT AND PROCEEDINGS OF THE COMMITTEE 
The Joint Committee on Constitutional Review was first appointed by the two Houses of the twenty-second Parliament to review such aspects of the working of the Commonwealth Constitution as the Committee considered it could most profitably consider and to make recommendation for such amendment of the Constitution as the Committee thought necessary in the light of experience. 
That was its task. What did it come up with? 
Fancy that comment coming from a defeated member of the House of Representatives for whom the Liberal Party had to find a seat in the Senate. I will deal with him in a moment. Let us consider who were the members of that Committee. I think it is very important that we should remind the people of Australia who were the members of that Joint Committee on Constitutional Review. The list of members is shown on page 173. They begin with none other than the late  Senator Neil  O'sullivan as  Chairman.  I know that many people, and I would say the vast majority of honourable senators, would have a very high regard for the late Neil O'sullivan. Then there was  Senator P.  J. Kennelly.  Senator Jessop  has retired. He would not know  Senator Kennelly,  but I think a lot of people here would know  Senator Kennelly  and would have a very high regard for any opinion he expressed. Do you know the next name that I read? It is  Senator Reginald  C. Wright. 
-I will read it again. I have it here in black and white before me:  Senator Reginald  C. Wright, who is one of the 10 senators from Tasmania who represent 40,000 people and who denies representation to 120,000 people in the Northern Territory. 

 - Senator Rae, you are in exactly the same position so I will substitute  Senator Rae'  for  'Senator Wright'  if you come into the debate. Now, if I may continue, the next was  Mr A.  R. Downer. I am sorry; I do not know  Mr Downer. 
-He was appointed by the Liberal Party. They must have had a very high regard for him. The next member was  Mr Len  W. Hamilton. Then there was  Mr Reg.  T. Pollard; he is very well respected in all political spheres. Then we have  Senator Nick  McKenna. Everybody adored  Senator McKenna.  Other members were the late Arthur A. Calwell;  Mr D.  R. Drummond;  Mr P.  E. Joske who is now a member of the Commonwealth Industrial Court and who was appointed by the Liberal Party when it was in government; the late Eddie Ward; and last but not least,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam. That Committtee recommended some very important amendments to the Constitution. One of them was that the Senate should not remain constant but should fluctuate with circumstances. It is in that context that I want to come to the point raised by  Senator McManus.  He said that by this legislation we are trying to denigrate the work of the Senate. On the contrary, we are trying to advance the interests of the Senate because we are asking that there should be additional representation of the people in the Senate. How can anyone say that we are trying to play down the role of the Senate when we are trying to extend the influence of the Senate by giving representa.titon to the people of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory? One just cannot add up that type of argument and I would suggest that on analysis one will find that it is completely wrong. 

 Senator Jessop in his contribution tonight referred to the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. For good or for bad,  Senator Jessop  has his opinion. The members of the Committee will have their own opinions. I happen to be  Chairman  of that Committee. It is very interesting that  Senator Jessop  should criticise all and sundry; but he does not know his own record. The situation is that he said there should be local government representation in the Australian Capital Territory. Does  Senator Jessop  know that some 5 months ago the member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  who was then Minister for the Capital Territory asked our Committee to examine how we could introduce local government to the Australian Capital Territory and that that is what we are now doing? He did not do his homework. No wonder he was thrown out of the House of Representatives. It is obvious that he must be thrown out of the Senate in due course. I am not sensitive about these things - 
That might be so. I thank  Senator Jessop  for that interjection because I will again prove to him how innocuous he is in this Senate and that it is no wonder he was thrown out of the House of Representatives. This Joint Committee is composed of representatives of all political parties. If  Senator Jessop  keeps on yapping I will turn on him again. I want to address my remarks now to  Senator Webster. Senator Webster,  trying to get on side with his colleague from South Australia to curry favour somewhere along the line, said that the Committee is ineffectual. Of course he is entitled to that opinion. You stick to that opinion, Senator; you are entitled to do so. But if you do let me remind you that  Mr Jack  Hallett, a Country Party member of the House of Representatives is  Deputy Chairman  of that Committee and is highly regarded by that Committee. 
Oh, no. I would not accuse him of such disloyalty. Let me deal with the compilation of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. We have  Senator Marriott  who, according to  Senator Webster,  is ineffectual. Then we have  Senator Devitt.  What about  Senator Webster  rising on his feet and saying that  Senator Devitt  is ineffectual? What about  Senator Webster  rising to his feet and nominating who on that Committee is ineffectual? What about  Senator Webster  getting to his feet and criticising the report that was brought down? 
The honourable senator should go back to his pornographic literature shop in Melbourne. What about  Senator Webster  bringing forward some criticism of the report that saved an abattoir for the people of the Australian Capital Territory, when his Party when in office wanted to close it? Why does he not do that? Why does he not criticise  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson for what he said in this House? The honourable senator is on record as saying that it was an excellent report that was brought forward to save the abattoir in the Australian Capital Territory for the people of the Australian Capital Territory. Please do not make wild accusations.  Senator Little  continues to interject. All I can say to one who rises in the Senate and parades the virtue of morality and says all along that one must inculcate into the young people all the splendid ideals of Christianity, and then sells pornographic literature to those young people in his shop in Melbourne, is that in my book his case falls to the ground. I rest on that point.  Senator Little  is again interjecting. All he can do is wear dark glasses in the Senate to suggest that he is not a member of the Mafia. I challenge all members of the Opposition to dispute my argument. 
Is it right that one of your own members knocked you off in your electorate? I say to members of the Opposition that if they vote against this legislation they will vote against what the representative from the Northern Territory wants. He is a member of the Country Party. 

 - Mr Calder, I am sorry. I refer honourable senators to page 1062 of Senate Hansard of 9 October 1973 where the following appears: 
This Bill, which seeks to provide Senate representation Tor the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, is identical to the Bill of the same title which was passed by the House of Representatives on 30 May 1973 ... it was carried by 78 votes to 43. Seventeen members of the Country Party - 
The Nationalist Party, I suppose now-  crossed the floor and voted with the Government, the other 3 members of the Country Party being absent when the vote was taken. 
Do honourable senators know who was amongst those 17 members who crossed the floor, none other than the member for the Northern Territory,  Mr Calder.  Where are we going to have a situation in Australia - 
Of course I am proud to be associated with 4KQ. I do not have to rely on anything in 4KQ like the honourable senator had to rely on to get a crust when he was thrown out of Parliament. He cannot ever, have the confidence of members of his own party; they have jettisoned him again. 
I appeal to members opposite. If they believe in democracy surely they will give an area with u population of 120,000 people representation in this honourable Senate. If honourable members opposite do not intend to do that, I ask them to look in the mirror and see that there are 10 senators from Tasmania representing 400,000 people collectively or 40,000 people each. I believe the argument is irrefutable. I believe that the Country Party has demonstrated that it believes in what we say. If I were to believe anything that was said, then God forbid that I would believe anything that  Senator Jessop  said, and in par.ticular the matter he raised in the Senate yesterc'ay. 
Has the Minister for the Media noted a report that the Queensland Government has opened a new film centre to produce video tapes on educational subjects which will be distributed to schools and teachers colleges? What steps has the Australian Government taken to provide assistance in educational films and television at the national level for use in schools throughout Australia? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. Is it a fact that the National Capital Development Commission is proposing that the Tuggeranong Freeway be linked with Canberra city by means of a major road around the northern edge of Lake Burley Griffin? If so, does the Government intend arranging for an impact study of the proposal? 
I say at the outset to make my position very clear that I believe there should be representation from people in industry who are skilled in the occupation which they follow. Having said that, I want to oppose the amendment for the very reasons which have been outlined in its support.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson said that  Senator James  McClelland was denying expertise. That was not so at all. I think that we must look back at some parts of history and its relevance to  Senator Poyser  's interjection in relation to the trade union movement. On innumerable occasions I have seen governments comprised of Liberal Party and Australian Country Party supporters reject the proposal which the Opposition now espouses. Let me take an incident in relation to the Public Service. The Government in Queensland was to appoint a Public Service Board. The State Service Union which is the Public Service Union- I believe honourable senators will agree that that is a very respectable union- was asked to nominate a representative from the union to go on the Board. The union took a secret ballot of its members after calling nominations. There were 3 nominees and one person won rather handsomely.  His  name was submitted to the Government but it rejected that nomination in favour of someone who had been defeated. We come to another issue on which I speak with some knowledge. Others in this chamber will know it equally as well. It relates to a replacement in the Senate. The Australian Labor Party nominated a replacement but the 
Government in Queensland said: 'No, we will not have that person. Put up a panel of 2 or 3 people and we will select the replacement. ' 
He is not the Premier at present so it does not matter. I do not want to use names. Of course, if I have to I can quite easily. 
No, I know. It is nothing to that Premier's discredit, I suppose. It was  Sir Francis  Nicklin. It is all right for honourable senators opposite to say what shall be done in relation to matters which this Government proposes but their Party when in government did precisely the opposite. Let me take one or two matters which have been referred to today. For instance,  Senator Rae  criticised the Karmel Committee report and the fact that in it there was opportunity for schools to appeal. 
-With respect, that is in effect what you said. 
Wait a moment. The honourable senator said that the Karmel Committee report must have been wrong because so many schools were appealing. Surely that is what the Karmel Committee set out to do. It sought to bring out a recommendation and to make reservation for somebody who felt that he had been harshly treated. That type of criticism does not lend itself to a debate of this nature. We heard  Senator McManus  interject when  Senator James  McClelland was speaking about the appropriate parents' association from which a representative should be selected.  Senator James  McClelland said that he was with these people last Friday night and that they said the representative should be from their organisation.  Senator McManus  said that that is not the appropriate body from which the representative should come. So as honourable senators can see, we have those difficulties.  Senator McManus  in his amendment goes a little further. He says that the members shall be the direct representatives of the people who sponsor their nomination. At least  Senator Rae  's amendment give a choice to the Government as to who the representative shall be. 
Having stated that I believe that people representing an organisation and who have expertise should be selected on the broad basis, let me ask: 'Would that not be the opinion of 100 per cent of Government members and will that not be adopted '? It will be adopted eventually. I submit with respect that to tie this down to the precise details which we have before us in the amendment makes the whole situation ridiculous.  Senator Rae,  to fortify the arguments which he advanced, referred to the Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority. He said that there were specific nominees for that Authority. Of course there are, because it is a body in a specific area. This legislation applies to the whole of Australia and not to one comparatively minor part of Australia. To try to fortify fallacious arguments of that nature does nothing to support the amendment moved by  Senator Rae. 
I do not know that anybody ever congratulated the honourable senator so I am one up on him. Let me look at some of the provisions of amendment No. 5. It states:   a panel of not less than 5 persons' names submitted by the Australian Teachers 'Federation . . . 
From that Federation one member is selected. Does everybody know that not all members of the teaching profession are members of the Federation? What about a teacher who has religious beliefs which preclude him from joining a union? That provision is found in the great majority of industrial legislation of which I am aware. I know numerous people in industry who have religious beliefs which preclude them from joining an association. In those circumstances, no matter how brilliant such a person may be he cannot be selected because he has not been nominated by the Teachers Federation. Also, head teachers are not always members of the Teachers Federation. In one of the States of the Commonwealth there may be an outstanding headmaster who cannot be appointed to the Commission by the Government because the Teachers Federation will not nominate him. 
We heard  Senator McManus,  in his closing remarks, deny entirely what the Opposition is saying. He said that he had been a member of the Adult Education Association of Victoria for an extended period. I just forget for how long he was a member- 20 years, I think he said. No member of that Adult Education Association, whether he be a teacher, an educationist or whatever he may be, can qualify for appointment to this Commission if he is not a member of any of the organisations to which the Opposition has referred. I go back again to what  Senator James  McClelland was saying about last Friday night, when he instanced the organisations which had been cited and  Senator McManus  disagreed with him as to which was the appropriate body that should be consulted in this direction. I have no quarrel with what  Senator James  McClelland said or with what  Senator McManus  said; that will be worked out eventually, I suppose. But the fact remains that this amendment refers in (b) to a panel from the Australian Council of State School Organisations and in (c) to a panel from the National Council of Independent Schools. 
If the Opposition cannot agree here on which is the appropriate body from which the selection will be made, how is the Government going to do it? How does the Opposition know that there are not more organisations than the Australian Parents Council? I know that there are several organisations concerned with schools which do not go by that name. They are to be denied any opportunity to have representatives appointed to the Commission. Consider paragraph (b), which states in the last 2 lines: 
. a person involved in special education of handicapped children or children with special learning difficulties; 
Say, for instance, that the Australian Council of State School Organisations nominates a person who has qualifications in special education of handicapped children as its nominee for a position. He may come from, shall we say, New South Wales. But in Tasmania there is a very well qualified person who has special education qualifications in respect of handicapped children and children with special learning difficulties. The Opposition says that the person nominated by the Australian Council of State School Organisations must be chosen; but someone whom it has not nominated but whom the Minister or the education authorities know to be far superior to the person put forward by that Council may not be appointed. 
-No, with respect, he cannot. 
-Let me read that paragraph to the honourable senator again. 
Six other members upon the recommendation of the Australian Education Council and of whom two shall be members of parent organisations selected by the Australian Education Council from a panel of not less than five persons' names submitted by the Australian Council of State School Organisations and one shall be a person involved in special education of handicapped children . . . 
So the organisation submits a panel of names. It may, in its honest belief, say that person A is the best man for this job because he is highly qualified in special education of handicapped children. The Government may know of somebody in some other State who is qualified in both those fields of special education- handicapped children and children with special learning difficulties. 
The honourable senator cannot get away from his own amendment. 
Let me now read to him an extract from Hansard of 6 March 1973. It is a report of a speech by one of his own members on this issue. He said- I had better read it all in case I am accused of not reading the whole paragraph- as reported at page 255: 
As I said, the Government's priorities in regard to education appear to be wrong. If the Government wants to give equal opportunity in schooling to every child in Australia, it should concentrate on the primary field because it is there that the child takes his first steps up the education ladder. It is a well known statistical fact that 20 per cent of all primary school children have some specific learning defect, whether it is an inability to leant to read or an inability to do sums. However, only approximately S per cent have a severe learning difficulty. 
The Opposition is suggesting that that 5 per cent should have complete preference over others who have a far greater difficulty and a far greater need for education. I do not accept what  Senator Rae's  colleague in the other place said. Perhaps he knows more about it than I do. But my association with SPELD indicates to me that it takes quite a substantial part of any kiddie's primary school education to learn of his special difficulties. I believe that the Opposition can leave it to the Government to be fair and honest about these things. The Government has indicated its honesty and its sincerity of purpose by setting up the Karmel Committee to bring in this recommendationat very short notice- and I believe that it has done a very good job. True, it is not a perfect job; nevertheless, it is a good job and a pointer to what education in Australia shall be in the future. 
There are other matters to which I could refer. I do not propose to do so. I ask the chamber to accept that the Government is sincere in wanting the best people available to do the job on the Schools Commission. Leave it to the Government. If it does not do a good job in that direction, then it is the Opposition's responsibility to point that out. But Opposition senators cannot point it out in advance because I submit with respect that all the sincerity has been exhibited by the Government in the first place. I could make some further references to what  Senator McManus  said about withholding the whole Schools Commission. The Minister for the Media challenged  Senator McManus  and said: 'You did no hear the Minister say that'.  Senator McManus  replied: 'No, I did not hear him say that, but others have said it'. 'Others' can cover a great multitude of people. I do not know who are the others'. I ask the Committee to reject the amendment. 
Again tonight we have heard  Senator Rae  saying on behalf of his Party some tilings about the Government and the allegations that the Government has made about members of the Opposition in regard to this Bill. I think it is important that we place on record some of the things that have been said. I suggest that this amendment does nothing to improve the structure of the Bill. When we hear  Senator Rae  say that no members of the Opposition have ever said one word about this Bill, it is rather nauseating to read what they have said. I want to refer, if I may, to some of those things. I refer to what was said on this matter by  Mr Giles,  the honourable member for Angas in the other place. On page 934 of Hansard he reported as having said, straight out: 1 warn to say right from the word go that I am against the establishment of an Australian Schools Commission for very many reasons. The first reason I put forward to the House is the problem of centralised control. I do not think it is in the best interests of education as such to have this device which purports to produce priorities of expenditure within the schooling systems in Australia, centralised in Canberra. 
In other words, he bitterly opposed this legislation and the establishment of the Schools Commission. 
I will go a little further. At page 935  Mr Giles  is reported as having said: 
I say that in contradistinction to the centralised view of an Australian Schools Commission. I think it would be a move in the wrong direction. 
That was what  Mr Giles  said and he is a fairly important member of the Liberal Party. 
I thought I did so. I referred to page 934 and page 935 of the debate in the other place on 21 March 1972. 1 will be quite happy,  Mr Chairman,  to table the reference if requested to do so. Let us consider what was said by  Mr Nigel  Drury. I use the christian name,  Mr Chairman,  for identification purposes. At page 929 of Hansard he was reported as having said: 
Each State government has the right to determine its own priorities and it is clear from the records that most State governments give education a high priority. That is fortunate. 
Whether this would continue under a centralised system of education such as that advocated by the Australian Labor Party amendment in terms of setting up an Australian Schools Commission is, I believe, extremely doubtful. 
It is not relevant at all! That is right. Let me refer to what was said by  Senator Carrick. 
Has the Minister for the Media noted that it has been reported that journalists employed on metropolitan daily newspapers have, as a result of an arbitrated decision, been awarded wage and salary increases? Will the Minister confer with the General Manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to ensure that the base rate for ABC journalists is brought into line with the increased rates applying to journalists working for metropolitan dailies? 
I simply put to the Committee that in the 'Bill as proposed to be amended' it is in the minds of some people that the area marked 'Site of Parliament House' will not be sufficiently large to accommodate a new and permanent parliament house and that the ring road should be taken back to accommodate it. I have no objection to the proposal but I just give warning that perhaps in the future we may have to amend the Bill if we find that the area occupied by the ring road is required for a new and permanent parliament house. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister and it follows the question asked by  Senator Greenwood  this morning. Did the Australian Government oppose the recent decision by the Queensland Nationalist Party-Liberal Party coalition government to increase salaries of members of that Parliament by 14 1 /2 per cent retrospective to 1 July 1973, the increases being awarded by way of Order-in-Council and not by way of legislation or arbitrated decision? 
Surely we have reached a ludicrous situation when a member of the Opposition, having heard the explanation that the Government at the request of the honourable senator's Party agreed to amend the clause, said some shocking things about the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt),  was positively rude and then asked the Minister to postpone consideration of the clause. The Minister said: 'No, I will not do so'. Then the back bench member of the Opposition moved that consideration of the clause be postponed. I believe that the situation is an intolerable one. To test the whole procedure and to do precisely the uncouth thing that was done this afternoon, I now move: 
That the question be put. 

<graphic href="058232197311282_67_4_3_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="058232197311282_67_4_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="058232197311282_67_4_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put: 
That further consideration of clause 20 be postponed  (Senator Wright's motion). 
I preface by question, which is directed to the Minister for the Media, by referring to the fact that last week the Minister tabled in the Senate a report from the Australian Broadcasting Control Board on overcommercialisation. Does this report disclose that the extent of over-commercialisation in radio and television has been considerably reduced in the last 12 months? Will the Minister indicate whether any further action is contemplated by the Government to stamp out this practice? 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Media. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a recent report indicating that the profit of Channel 9 television stations in Sydney and Melbourne was considerably lower in the first half of the current year than for the same period last year? Can the Minister indicate whether the report is correct, and has he ascertained the reasons for this reduction in profits? 
I bring up the report from the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory on the fifty-fifth series of proposals for variation of the plan of layout of the city of Canberra and its environs. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask for leave to make a short statement. 
I present the eighth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Media. In September this year I asked him about the seventh stage of the development of national television stations at Roma, Miles and Emerald. At that time the Minister indicated that there was a delay due to the difficulty in obtaining television transmitters. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether he is yet in a position to indicate a scheduled completion date? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for the Media. Is it a fact that the Australian Government has allocated $300,000 to replace radio receivers which are used in the education of children in isolated areas? Is it a fact that sets which are used for the 'School of the Air' will have to be replaced? If the answer is in the affirmative, what period of time will elapse for the transition to be effected? 
I present the Ninth Report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That, especially in view of the recent natural disasters in a number of States, the Senate congratulates the Whitlam Government on its proposals in regard to the preparation for and dealing with natural disasters and their financial and other consequences. 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Media. Is it a fact that there has been a delay in the completion of the seventh stage of television development in south-western Queensland? Has the delay been because of technical problems? Can the Minister indicate when the services are likely to commence in this area? 
asked me questions on this matter towards the end of last year. In fairness, I must say that the matter was raised with me by the Federal member for Kennedy. At that time I, on behalf of the Postmaster-General, indicated that it was anticipated that television transmissions to certain portions of south-western Queensland could be expected about Christmas time. Unfortunately, a number of unexpected technical problems cropped up in the arrangement of the transmission facilities, and they have delayed the introduction of the facility to the residents of south-western Queensland. However, I can now tell the honorable senator that it has been decided to commence interim transmissions from 7 stations in south-western Queensland as from 8 March, pending the rectification of some minor technical problems. The Postmaster-General has been advised accordingly. The stations concerned are at St George, Dirranbandi, Mitchell, Morven, Charleville, Augathella and Cunnamulla. I am confident that adequate service will be available to those areas, although I must tell the honourable senator that it is likely to be subjected to occasional breaks in transmission because of the technical difficulties being encountered by the Postmaster-General's Department in effecting the installation. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Repatriation. Since the Whitlam Government recently introduced free artificial limbs for civilians who are in need of such assistance, which limbs were to be supplied through the Repatriation Artificial Limb Appliance Centre, I ask: ( 1 ) How many limbs have so far been supplied to civilians; and (2) has the service to civilians created delays in the provision of artificial limbs for ex-servicemen? 
-I second the motion so ably moved today by my colleague  Senator Wheeldon.  In doing so I sincerely congratulate  Her  Majesty on the presentation personally of the opening Speech to our Parliament. I believe that all Australians appreciate the fact that  Her  Majesty was given the opportunity to open our national Parliament. Consequently this gives the lie direct to those members of the Opposition who try to besmirch members of the Australian Labor Party and suggest all types of terrible things about them. I believe that it was an epoch making event. The people of Australia roundly applaud the fact that  Her  Majesty was given the opportunity to present  Her  Speech in this national Parliament. It is recorded in Hansard. What an amazing document it is. 
It shows precisely what has gone on since the Australian Labor Party took office and what is proposed for the future.  Senator Hannan  has just interjected. He is one of those members of the Opposition who insulted fraternal people from other countries by remaining seated in their places although the  President  invited senators to stand as a mark of respect. He is always saying everything bad about races other than our own. He has not the slightest conception of fraternal feelings for other people throughout the world. He would dearly love to see Australia continue in the role of aggressor in any war that he believed justified. We have heard him time and again. Only yesterday he raised the question of  Mr Alexander  Solzhenitsyn. The Australian people know that  Senator Willesee  as Minister for Foreign Affairs on 2 occasions condemned the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics for banishing that colleague. Immediately that happened  Mr Grassby,  the Minister for Immigration, said that Solzhenitsyn and his family could come to Australia to live. What have honourable senators opposite to say about that? We have not heard one word of congratulation to the Australian Government for its stand. On the contrary, we continue to get condemnation and irresponsible remarks from rude people.  Her  Majesty told the people of Australia of our progress. She said that the Government would continue with policies of reform and innovation. She went on: 
It will use its constitutional power resolutely to press its program to fulfilment. 
She was referring to a program marked by remarkable reform in legislation after 23 years of the dead hand of the previous Government being laid upon the people of Australia, aided and abetted by members of the Nationalist Party, as they now call it, and the Democratic Labor Party. Last year was a year of reform and innovation and we are proud of our efforts in that direction. Her Majesty referred to the economy as basically strong and buoyant and that prevails today. Go amongst country people and they will tell you that they have never known prices to be as good as those they are receiving for their products today. Twice recently I have visited country areas and on each occasion the people there told me that they were more than satisfied with the prices they were getting for their products. How has this come about? It has not come about through handing out everything asked for, as occurred in the past. It came about through the progressive development of the Australian 
Government seeking sales most successfully in other countries. 
We will continue to seek the greatest possible measure of Australian ownership of our industries and resources. The previous Government continued to sell our resources to overseas ownership. Immediately this Government came to power and tried to reverse that situation it was attacked by the friends of monopolists and big business. We will continue to be attacked but we will continue to press forward in that direction. Her Majesty said that we would introduce legislation to fill constitutional responsibilities with respect to banking, insurance and financial corporations. How many times have we heard from the other side of the chamber bitter complaints about banking institutions. Now that we are proposing to do something about it, let us see the colour of the money of our critics. I wager that they will find it impossible to frustrate the work of the Government. 
I remind the people of Australia that members of the Opposition continue to try to frustrate the work of the Government, although some of them deny that they are doing so. However,  Senator Withers,  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, is on record as saying: 'We shall frustrate the Government in its policies. ' He made no attempt to conceal it. Perhaps he was indiscreet, but it is on record as the attitude of the Opposition to legislation that has been introduced for the advancement of the Australian people. A very important new Ministry of Minerals and Energy has been created. Its importance has been confirmed by the events of 1973. Some people would have us go to war with every nation in the world but our view has prevailed and as a fair government we have continued to receive cooperation.  Senator Wood  has come into the chamber. Last night he criticised the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Just have a look at him. If a secret ballot were conducted amongst the members of his own Party he would not receive one vote for anything he has said. Time out of number he has let down members of his own Party. He came in here supporting a policy but immediately ratted on that policy. That is the type of person who tries to criticise our Prime Minister. 
-Of course, and I would expect to be expelled if I ratted on my own Party. I make no apology for saying it. The honourable senator smiles but his colleagues would love to put a knife into him on any occasion that presented itself.  Her  Majesty said that Australia was in a more fortunate position than most comparable nations in the energy crisis but the Government would not be complacent in planning for the future energy needs of the Australian nation. The Government has done much in that direction even though it has been in power only about 1 5 months. It has been trying to protect the interests of the Australian people. I move on to deal with national responsibilities and priorities, including interstate highways and export roads. Surely anybody with any sense at all would acknowledge that the Australian Government has been pre-eminent in submitting proposals for the advancement of the people of Australia. 
What did the previous Government do in 23 years to set up a new road safety and standards authority? It did absolutely nothing, just as it did nothing in other areas. My colleague opposite from Queensland,  Senator Lawrie,  has attempted to interject. What did the previous Government do to provide financial assistance for the Ross River dam? He is very quiet now. The present Australian Government has done more for Queensland than has been done by any other government/for a long time. Legislation is proposed for national parks and wildlife commission. Again, I ask: Was this ever thought of by the previous Government? It was never thought of. At this point I pay tribute to  Senator Mulvihill  for his advocacy of" matters in the environmental field long before any honourable senators opposite ever thought about the subject. 
There are many other things to which I wish to refer.  Her  Majesty's Speech refers to legislation to enable the Australian Tourist Commission to enter into domestic tourist promotion. In that connection, might I say that only last weekend I was in the company of the Mayor of the Gold Coast, Alderman Newman, the honourable member for Maranoa in another place,  Mr Corbett,  and people from the Stanthorpe tourist promotion area. They are very keen to establish what they believe to be a magnificent concept for tourism. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-Order! 
-He yaps all the time,  Mr Deputy President.  Nobody takes any notice of him. The people to whom I have referred propose that overseas tourists who come to Australia should go to the Gold Coast for two or three days and then be transported by bus - 
Anyway, they will not be reading pornographic literature from your shop. They will then be transported by bus to Beaudesert, Stanthorpe and other areas in Queensland where they will see something of rural Queensland. I know that the  Hon.  F. Stewart, Minister for Tourism and Recreation, will be very pleased to hear the view of members of that committee. 
While on the subject of Stanthorpe, I repeat that I was fortunate to be a guest at the apple and grape festival held at Stanthorpe last weekend. I pay tribute to the organising ability of those who were responsible for that function. Principally, I pay tribute to  Mr Neil  Sullivan,  president  of the organisation responsible, who was assisted by all sections of the community. A population of under 3,000 people in Stanthorpe was able to put on such a display that it attracted well nigh 20,000 people from the surrounding areas. 
The honourable senator would never be invited. On the Friday night there was a ball attended by approximately 1200 people. As I have said, on Saturday there were 20,000 people in the streets. There were 28 bands, a massed pipe band of 400 pipers and a massed brass band of 500 musicians. Consequently, all sections of the community were catered for. It was a very fine pageant showing what goes on in that area. I congratulate  Mr Neil  Sullivan, and his committee on their organisation of this event. I also congratulate Councillor Fred Rogers and the councillors of the Stanthorpe Shire Council for the way in which they combined to assist. 
Honourable senators will recall that  Her  Majesty referred to the tragic circumstances associated with the people of Queensland and of New South Wales in the loss of life and property they suffered in the recent floods in those States. I want to address myself to that aspect of the floods which concerns Queensland. It has been reported and stated quite emphatically that Queensland suffered the worst national disaster since the white man occupied Australia. I believe that anybody who saw the difficulties under which the people of Queensland lived for those few days would agree. It is to the credit of  Mr Crean  and  Mr Barnard  that they travelled to Queensland with no fanfare of trumpets and with no suggestion that they were coming in any political atmosphere. They went immediately to the Premier of Queensland who subsequently said that he was more than satisfied with the generous treatment that he and Queensland had received from the Federal Government. It appears that the Federal Government will provide in the vicinity of $ 1 50m for the people of Queensland. 
But what happened?  Mr Crean  and  Mr Barnard  came to Queensland. They negotiated with  Sir Gordon  Chalk, the Treasurer of Queensland, and with the Premier of Queensland on what financial arrangements would be made to assist the people of Queensland. It was agreed that an amount of approximately $50m would be made available immediately. The Premier of the State prepared a statement for release to the Press.  Mr Barnard  and  Mr Crean  objected to three or four paragraphs of the statement and it was agreed that those paragraphs would be altered. Notwithstanding the fact that this was an honourable agreement between the head of the Queensland Government and the representatives of the Australian Government, the Premier of Queensland caused to be circulated the original statement. This is a most dishonourable action and it should never have happened. 
I go further. The Premier of Queensland, on the Sunday night after the disastrous rains of Friday and Saturday, was asked to sponsor a national appeal for financial assistance for the people of Queensland. He declined to do so. The principal newspapers in Australia were responsible for the request. They then contacted the Lord Mayor of Brisbane, Alderman Clem Jones, and he in turn tried to prevail on the Premier to sponsor this national appeal. Again the Premier declined on the score that he had tried this once before when an area in Queensland had been devastated by a cyclone and he was not going to try it again. So the Lord Mayor said to him: 'If you are not prepared to do it, do you object if I do it? ' The Premier said: 'No, you can do it if you accept the responsibility'. The Lord Mayor accepted the responsibility. Thank goodness that he did. He immediately set about obtaining money to help the distressed people in Brisbane. The Ipswich City Council did a similar job. The fact is that there could have been a uniform national appeal but the Premier of Queensland opposed that proposition and it was left to individuals to sponsor their appeals. The Premier saw that the Lord Mayor's appeal was becoming so successful that he felt he had to come into it but his appeal received nowhere near the same proportion of support that was accorded to the Lord Mayor's appeal. I believe that the people of Brisbane, and indeed the people of Queensland, would congratulate the Lord Mayor of Brisbane for what he did in that direction. 
The membership of your Party is so small that it could hold a meeting in a telephone box. In what other manner did the Premier of Queensland react to the difficulties being experienced by the people of Queensland? What happened when the Australian Government indicated that it would be prepared to finance without restriction the overcoming of the difficulties being experienced by the people of Queensland? What did the old Government do? It put absolutely nothing into any such fund. I hope that  Senator Withers  would not grin so much if such difficulties were ever experienced by the people of Western Australia; but I believe that he would because he has no feelings whatsoever for people. I show to the Senate an advertisement on this subject which appeared in the Courier-Mail' of Friday, 8 February. It is headed with the crest of the Queensland Government. The line under the crest reads: Queensland Government Flood Relief. The advertisement goes on to state: 'Brisbane and Ipswich householders: If you need help or advice following the flood, this is where to get it from the Queensland Government'. It is a most despicable advertisement. There is no reference in it to the Australian Government. Anyone who believes that he is an Australian would condemn it. As the advertisement is not about pornographic literature  Senator Little,  who is continually interjecting, would not understand it. Advertisements of that nature appeared indicating that the Queensland Government was the organisation from which to obtain relief although it had not put one cent towards assisting the people of Queensland. An advertisement of practically the same wording also appeared in the Brisbane Telegraph', which is the evening newspaper.  Senator Little  objects to what I am saying because he is one of those who support  Mr BjelkePetersen,  the Premier of Queensland. 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Barnard,  had occasion to complain to the Premier of Queensland that the wording of the advertisement was completely wrong. The Premier of Queensland said: ' Yes, I think it is a bit hot. I will alter the advertisement'. He did so the following Saturday morning but instead of the amended advertisement appearing in the 'Courier Mail', which has a circulation of 300,000, it appeared in the 'Australian', which has a circulation in Queensland of 40,000. That is what was done by the Premier of Queensland, who claims to be so democratic in all his actions. He did that notwithstanding the fact that he promised the  Deputy  Prime Minister that he would amend the advertisement. The Premier of Queensland again used the crest of the Queensland Government in the advertisement in the 'Australian'. It states: 'Your State Government in co-operation with the Commonwealth Government, is providing every assistance possible to help flood victims throughout the State'. Those words are attributed to  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  the Premier of Queensland. After promising the  Deputy  Prime Minister, as he did, that he would amend the advertisement to show the correct picture, that was  Mr BjelkePetersen  's idea of fairness and that was his idea of democracy. 
The Australian Government also said to the Queensland Government: 'We will provide up to $25,000 for any business which has experienced financial difficulties as a result of the flood'. Let us bear in mind that the Queensland Government did not put in one cent. I will read the advertisement that appeared in relation to that offer. Again the Queensland Government's crest was at the top of the advertisement above the heading: 'Flood Relief for Industry and Small Businesses'. It reads: 
A special loan fund has been established to assist in the recovery and restoration of flood-affected industry and small businesses in Queensland. 
This fund, established by the Queensland Government in conjunction with the Commonwealth Government, under the supervision of- 
And so it goes on. That is the only reference to the Australian Government. It will be noted that the praise goes to the Queensland Government, in conjunction with the Commonwealth Government. Any member of the national Parliament who supports advertisements of this deceitful nature has no credibility whatsoever and no regard for the national Parliament. The situation in Queensland was most serious indeed. I have refrained from making any statements in Queensland in any circumstances about the situation, notwithstanding the fact that I knew that political bias was being shown on the part of the Queensland Government. This is the first opportunity that I have had to raise these matters and I have done so believing that all fair dinkum Australians will condemn the Queensland Government for trying to make political capital out of the difficulties being experienced by the people of Queensland. 
Has the attention of the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence been drawn to the fact that 2 members of the Citizen Military Forces were electrocuted while assisting the citizens of Brisbane during the recent disastrous floods in that city? Will the Minister ascertain whether financial assistance can be provided to the respective widows and children as it appears that nothing is required to be paid because the deceased had volunteered for civil defence duties? 
Can the Minister for the Media indicate whether the report is correct that the Australian Broadcasting Commission in Queensland is contemplating providing for its workers an equal say in management? 
I am sorry that tonight  Senator Greenwood  felt that he should behave like the lady of whom it was said on one occasion: 'The lady doth protest too much'. All he did was protest. He produced no facts whatsoever in support of his argument. In fact, he became so hysterical that, with all the cynicism at his disposal, he criticised the members of the Grants Commission. He said that they were plutocrats who were really unworthy of being part of the Australian nation. He said these things about those gentlemen. Let me remind honourable senators of the persons who comprise the Grants Commission. The  Chairman  of that body is  Sir Leslie  Melville, K.B.E. Would  Senator Greenwood  say that  Sir Leslie  Melville is an undesirable character? Silence is golden. The second member of the Commission is  Mr W.  R. Lane. Is  Mr Lane  an undesirable character? Again, silence is golden. Is  Sir John  Goodsell, C.M.G., an undesirable character?  Senator Greenwood  would have us believe that these people are unfit to do the job for which they have been appointed. 
I have never heard such scurrilous talk for a long while from one who is supposed to have an eminent position in the legal profesion. 
I now turn to the Australian Country Party. As a matter of fact I think only one member of the Country Party is in the Senate tonight. That is the  Chairman  of Committees,  Senator Webster.  The other members of the Country Party all belong to old types of organisations. Honourable senators heard what the Leader of the Country Party in the Senate  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  said tonight. He said that the Country Party always had a deep interest in local government. I ask honourable senators to listen to the deep interest that the Country Party displayed in its policy speech for the election in 1972.I challenge any honourable senator to ask me- I hope someone will- to table this document because it is very enlightening. The document titled 'Australian Country Party, Policy Speech, Federal Election 1972' was prepared for the Press. I ask honourable members not to forget what  Senator DrakeBrockman  said of all the great things that the Country Party believed in for local government. On page 9 the Country Party policy document states: 
We believe it is unacceptable that local government should be allowed to remain in a position of serious financial inadequacy. 
This is after 23 years of their maladministration. The document continues: 
Local government itself should have wider powers to raise money. 
The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  said that it should have greater responsibility for the spending of money- precisely what we want local government to do. The document further states: 
The Country Party- and the Government- 
That is, the Liberals: believe it is essential that local government should be properly represented at next year's Constitutional Review Convention. Not merely to observe- but to play a full part in the discussions and in the making of decisions. We hope this historic Convention will lead amongst other things, to the kinds of changes that will give local government access to the funds it must have if it is to meet the increasing demands the community is making on it. 
That is the sole contribution to local government in the 1972 policy speech of the Australian Country Party. I remind honourable senators that there are perhaps 2 points of importance that were made by the Country Party. One point was that local government should have representatives at the Australian Constitutional Convention. I shall read the names of the delegates to the Convention in a moment. But I ask honourable senators: Who gave local government representation at the Convention? It was the 
Whitlam Government that gave local government representation at that Convention. 
What did the Country Party mean when it proposed in its 1972 policy speech to give local government access to the funds it must have if it is to meet the increasing demands that the community is making on it. Members of the Country Party could not tell us. I do not think they knew that section was contained in their policy speech. The Country Party said that the Liberal Party embraced this policy proposal. I do not know whether it had the approval of the Liberal Party to claim that. I do not know whether the Country Party has the approval of the Liberal Party to run separate tickets in the next Senate elections in certain States. But this is the way in which members of the Country Party are behaving today. 
I have here a list of the representatives of local government who attended the Australian Constitutional Convention in 1973. I ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard that list of those representatives from the various States. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)-  Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
AUSTRALIAN CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION 1973 
I thank the Senate. Much has been said tonight about what the Australian Government is trying to do.  Senator Greenwood  said that his local government authority was a good one and that it did not want any change. I asked him how he knew and whether he had spoken to his local authority but of course he did not deign to reply. Obviously silence means consent. Of course he had not spoken to his local authority. He mouthed words that might have been appropriate for his own Party room, his own Caucus room, but not for this debate tonight. I say to  Senator Greenwood  and to other Opposition senators that we have proof positive that before the election this very proposal was discussed at a meeting in Brisbane with all local authority representatives throughout Queensland. At the conclusion of that meeting all the representatives of local government stood and said that it was one of the most ambitious things that had happened for local government for many years. They were tired of the handouts that had been coming from State governments and they wanted direct representation. They now have it as a result of this notwithstanding all that honourable senators opposite might say. 
I refer  Senator Greenwood  to the most pertinent part of the debate which took place in the Senate on 20 November 1973. On page 1910 of the Senate Hansard  Senator Murphy  is reported as having said: 
In October- just a month ago- at a meeting with the heads ofgovernment of the States the Government took new initiatives on behalf of local government. We made 2 proposals. One was that elected local government should have both a voice and a vote in the Loan Council. The other was that the Australian Government be empowered to borrow on behalf of elected local government. The meeting was abortive. There was no consensus to enable the Australian Government to proceed without delay. 

 Senator Greenwood is interjecting. Fools rush in where angels fear to tread,  Senator Greenwood.  Place yourself in whichever category you like. I know in which category we place you.  Senator Murphy  continued: 
This Bill, therefore, is designed to deal with one of those proposals- that is, to add a new placitum to section51 empowering the Commonwealth to borrow on behalf of local government- and at the same time to add a new section 96a empowering the Parliament - 
I said 'the Parliament'. What did we hear about the rights of Parliament this morning? Did we not hear from honourable senators opposite that Parliament was supreme? Of course we did. 
Now, tonight, they are trying to denigrate Parliament. They are trying to say that Parliament has no authority whatsoever. That is a fallacious argument and it does no credit to members of the Opposition. I repeat what  Senator Murphy  said on 20 November 1973. He said that the Bill under discussion at that time was designed to:   . . add a new section 96A empowering the Parliament to make grants of financial assistance direct to local government. It will take us another step along the road towards giving local government its rightful place in our affairs. 
Not one member of the Opposition has tried to refute any of the statements made in this House on that occasion but they have carried us all sorts of tales and made all sorts of suggestions to indicate that the Australian Government- I point out that all honourable senators form part of the Australian Parliament- is trying to do something dastardly to local government. Was not all this laid out before the Australian Constitutional Convention of 1973? I invite honourable senators opposite to read the record of the debates which occurred from 3 September 1 973 to 7 September 1973. At page 236 of the record the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  is reported to have said this: 
On Monday I pointed out that direct representation on the Loan Council could be given to local government in two ways. The seven heads of government here could agree to amend the Finacial Agreement. Alternatively, and particularly if the seven heads of government cannot agree, the Australian Parliament could sponsor a referendum to insert the words 'or elected local government bodies' after the word States' wherever that word occurs in section 105A of the Constitution. I am happy to report to the Convention that as a result of the heads of government meeting last night, I hope that the seven heads of government can agree to amend the Financial Agreement, and I expect that we shall meet within the next few weeks to consider that course. 
This took place. The local government people had this to say in their submission to the Australian Constitutional Convention: 
Local government appreciates the opportunity to participate in the Convention to review the Australian Constitution. In making this submission to the Convention, local government has as its objective changes which will allow local government authorities throughout Australia to make a greater contribution to the well-being of the Australian people. The suggestion made will have the effect of removing or minimising some of the serious difficulties under which local government now operates. 
That is what the local government people said, yet honourable senators opposite tonight are trying to suggest that local government wants to run away from the proposition contained in this Bill. I say to them that they cannot show that by word or in documentary form. I see that  Senator Greenwood  is shaking his head. It will not rattle because there is nothing in it to rattle. The fact remains, that many suggestions in this direction are set out in this document. I read again from the local government submission to the Australian Constitutional Convention. Local government said this: 
Amend section 105A of the Constitution to read as follows: 
1 ) The Commonwealth may make agreements with the State and with elected local government bodies- 
I shall repeat that: 
The Commonwealth may make agreements with the State and with elected local government bodies with respect to the public debts of the States and the elected local government bodies including- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)-  It would seem to me that most of 

 Senator Milliner's remarks have emanated from the Australian Constitutional Convention. I was anticipating his linking those remarks eventually with the subject matter of the Bill. I do not uphold the point of order, but I suggest that  Senator Milliner  link the comments which he has made to date with the Bill. 
Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  Let me read the submission of local government. It stated: 
Local government appreciates the opportunity to participate in the Convention to review the Australian Constitution. 
Does this Bill deal with the Australian Constitution? Of course it does. Let me read the statements of some of the local government delegates at that convention.  Sir Charles  Cutler, New South Wales, said: 
I accept the privilege of making a few brief comments on two or three of the items before the Convention. The first, of course, is the question of the acknowledgment of local government in the Australian Constitution. I understand, and I am sure that we all understand, the wish of local government to be recognised in the Constitution. 
What does this legislation do? It gives effect to  Sir Charles  Cutler's statement. All the speeches at the Convention are in the same vein. 

 - Senator Greenwood is being rude when he makes those types of attacks. I can always remember when he, as AttorneyGeneral, had a home raided on Christmas Day in an endeavour to pick up some youth who refused to serve in the filthy war in Vietnam. 
Is not that the truth? Of course it is the truth. At the Convention  Mr Baldwin,  Queensland, said: 
I support the proposal before the Convention. Since 1901, according to the delegates handbook, there have been 6 previous attempts- one by royal commission- to review and change various parts of the Commonwealth Constitution. The most important and forceful was made in 19S9 by the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review. Yet even as late as that, no important direct mention was made of action to assist with the fast deteriorating financial position of local government. 
I thank the honourable senator for his inane contribution by way of interjection. He said that  Mr Baldwin  belongs to the Party of which I am a member. I am proud to say that he does. But others who do not belong to the Australian Labor Party said precisely the same thing. They said that the previous Government gave them no opportunity, in 23 years, to have direct access to the Australian Constitution. Yet  Senator Greenwood  grins that inane grin which does not disturb me in the slightest. It makes him look just as stupid as the words he utters. That theme continues all the way through the speeches at the Convention. I have referred in this chamber previously to people in local government who have done so much work on behalf of local government. I defy any honourable senator to name anybody who would measure up to  Mr Jensen,  M.L.A., New South Wales. He said precisely the same thing that others at the Convention said in that regard. The delegate from South Australia said:  1 support the recommendation that the working committee should take note of item No. 7, but in doing so I utter a word of caution, as other speakers have.  Mr Rogers  - 
He is the  Chairman- emphasised strongly that it was not the intention of local government to cut across the activities of other governments. 
That is precisely what  Senator Greenwood  said tonight and what he has continued to say in an attempt to mislead the people of Australia in that direction. Now I come to the statement made by the  Chairman, Mr Rogers.  I think  Senator Greenwood  would agree with me that Councillor Rogers would be one of the most respected men in local government in Australia. Again there is silence from the honourable senator, and that means agreement in his legal language. That suits me. 
You just keep talking back.  Mr Rogers,  one of the most important men in local government in Australia today, said:  1 emphasise again that it is implicit that if local government is to play its part in providing the services required of it, it must be an established arm of government recognised by the Constitution. That is what we aim at- not to be a level in place of any other level of government, or to take away from any other level of government but to become properly established throughout the nation as a third level in a 3-tier system. 
That statement was made by one who has done a lot for local government and who has just been recognised in Queensland as one of the most outstanding people in local government. He has been appointed by a Liberal-Country Party Government to a very important position in local government in Queensland. If  Senator Greenwood  challenges my statement, he should make representations to his colleagues in that State. I am sure that they will not display the same political ignorance and bias that was displayed by  Senator Greenwood.  They will say that Councillor Rogers is one of the most respected persons in local government in Queensland today. There are many others. 
Why should we want to do anything to destroy local government? Over the years we have tried to do everything possible to assist local government. Again there is a stupid, inane chuckle from someone who perhaps would not know the first thing about local government. Tonight he said that he has a wonderful local authority in his area. I question whether he knows anybody outside members of his Party in that local authority. I believe that the legislation is directed towards improving the lot of local government. It will do immeasurable good to the people who work so hard on behalf of the community. Therefore, I commend the legislation to the Senate. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Can the Minister indicate whether an application has been received by the Australian Government for the importation of the prawn fishing vessel Nathaniel Wilson '? As it is reported that this is a most efficient vessel, will the Minister indicate whether approval is to be given for its use in Australian waters? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Can the Attorney-General inform us now whether the Commonwealth police gave warning to the Queensland police before the Whisky Au Go Go bombing on 8 March 1973? If so, when and in what way was the warning conveyed? 
I ask the Minister for the Media: Is it a fact that the Queensland Institute of Technology is offering a bachelor of business degree with a major in communications? Will the Department of the Media provide assistance in studies of this sort? 
I present the first report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 

 - Senator Reid spoke tonight of documents that are purported to be invitations to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to attend a meeting. In accordance with standing order 364 1 move: 
That  Senator Reid  be required to table all documents which he purports were sent to the Prime Minister inviting him to attend a meeting in Perth at an undisclosed date. 
A Document quoted from by a  Senator not  a Minister of the Crown may be ordered by the Senate to be laid upon the Table; such Order may be made without Notice immediately upon the conclusion of the speech of the  Senator who  has quoted therefrom. 
That is the standing order of the Senate. Are you willing to table the documents,  Senator Reid? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, ls it a fact that the Australian Government proposes to provide the Queensland Government with an amount in excess of $lm for the establishment in the inner city area of Brisbane of an assessment and treatment clinic for alcoholics, together with hostels in Brisbane and country areas for alcoholics? Will the Minister indicate as early as possible when the proposals will be implemented, and will he make a comprehensive Press statement stating the complete details of the grant? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Has his attention been drawn to the frontispiece of the 1 973 annual report of the Australian Foundation on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence presented by  Dr J.  R. Moon,  President  of the Foundation, which gives unstinted praise to the Whitlam Australian Government and, more particularly, to the Honourable D. M. Everingham, the Minister for Health, for their sympathetic understanding, co-operation and support in making possible for the first time in this country a national secretariat, magazine and central library on alcoholism and drug dependence? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. Has the Australian Broadcasting Commission been approached about the possibility of establishing the ABC orchestral studio and music complex within the general area of a performing arts centre in Brisbane? Can the Minister say what action has been taken on this proposal? 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLANDShortly after I assumed this office the Professional Musicians Union of Australia made representations to the Australian Broadcasting Commission and to me for a new orchestral site in Brisbane. Recently the Australian Broadcasting Commission informed me that, in the absence of any firm decision by the Queensland Government on the establishment of a performing arts centre, the Commission could not delay any longer progress on the planning for an orchestral studio and music complex for the Queensland Symphony Orchestra which, I understand, is being planned for what is known as the Ferry Street site in Brisbane. All necessary approvals have been given to proceed with this project and it has been included in the ABC's 1 974-75 works program. Apart from the fact that there has been no approval from the Queensland Government for the construction of a performing arts centre, the Commission advised me that it has received information that the land on which the ABC's complex would be constructed within the general area of the performing arts centre its land owned by the Australian Post Office, that the Post Office itself is anxious to develop and use that land and that it would not release it to the ABC. It is the urgent desire of the Commission to proceed with the establishment of the orchestral studio on the Ferry Street site. I understand that it is expected that construction will take place over a period of 2 years and that the facilities should become available about March 1976. 
We have just heard an oration from the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party  (Senator McManus)  during which he at no time addressed himself to either the motion or the amendment. It was an address typical of  Senator McManus:  He threw a lot of mud, hoping that some of it would stick.  His  final remarks surely must condemn him for his unfair approach to the whole question. He says that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was responsible for trying to destroy  Mr Gair.  He himself is now offering the greatest possible insult to a person who he says has been a champion in the eyes of the people for so many years. Does he seriously suggest that  Mr Gair  would not have sufficient political nous to realise that he was being made a pawn in the game? Of course he would have that knowledge. But he had become so disillusioned with  Senator McManus  and his colleagues in the Democratic Labor Party that he wanted to get out of the Party altogether. He had lost all confidence in them because some time previously they had railroaded him into relinquishing the position of Leader of their Party. That is why  Mr Gair  was anxious to get away from the unseemly politics with which he had to associate himself when he was in the Democratic Labor Party.  Senator Little  is interjecting. If he proposes to start his yap-yap, let me ask: How often have we heard  Senator Little  say what a wonderful leader  Mr Gair  was? But the minute  Mr Gair  got out of the job,  Senator Little  immediately denounced him and said that recently his leadership had been poor. That is the quality of members of the Democratic Labor Party. 

 Senator McManus got on the wrong track immediately when he said that the early newspaper reports of the matter stated that the Prime Minister had taken the credit for the appointment. I challenge  Senator McManus  to go to the public library and to look at last Tuesday morning's issue of the 'Courier-Mail ', which was the first newspaper in Australia to break the news, and then to state whether that report said anything about the Prime Minister accepting the credit for this.  His  name was used once by Wallace Brown, when he said: 'The Prime Minister is allegedly reported to have stated that  Senator Gair  accepted this position some time last month'. From there on there is no mention of the Prime Minister,  Senator Murphy  or anybody else. That was the first report of the matter in Australia- and  Senator Condon  Byrne nearly died when he first saw it. 
Let me take issue with  Senator McManus  on a second point. He said that  Mr Gair  himself had said that he had resigned when he tendered his resignation to the Senate the other night. The honourable senator can say all these things, but unless he has facts to support him his case crumbles to the ground. This is a report of what  Mr Gair  said in Canberra, as published today on page 3 of the 'Courier-Mail': 
He believed he had stopped being a  Senator when  he accepted the appointment as Ambassador to the Republic of Ireland. 

 Senator McManus has said that that is incorrect. But that is a report of  Mr Gair  himself making the statement. We have heard a long, detailed report of the private conversation between  Senator McManus  and  Mr Gair.  I do not know whether it is the politics of the Democratic Labor Party members to have a private conversation with someone and then to come into the Senate chamber and ventilate what was said. That is not my idea of ethical conduct for the leadership of a party. Perhaps it is  Senator McManus  's. 
I refer now to the amendment moved by  Senator Withers.  In paragraph (ii) of it,  Senator Withers,  on behalf of the Opposition, says this: 
That there is abundant evidence that the Prime Minister and his responsible Ministers knew and intended that  Senator Gair  would cease to be a  Senator by  resigning his seat in the Senate in the terms of section 1 9 of the Constitution; 
That is the Opposition's considered opinion in writing. Who would have more responsibility to the Senate-  Senator Withers  and those who sit behind him or the  President  of the Senate? What did the  President  of the Senate say in his statement? The  President  said this: 
If  Senator Gair's  letter were a simple one of resignation, in the usual form, my course would be clear and I would take immediate steps to notify the vacancy to the Government of Queensland. 
The  President  said, in effect, that this was not a resignation. What else could it be? It could only have related to the Constitution, for it refers to the acceptance of an office of profit under the Crown. Therefore, the  President  of the Senate, who is highly regarded by all sections of the community and most certainly by senators on this side of the chamber, concluded by saying: 
In all the circumstances, I think this is a matter which should be determined by this Senate and, accordingly, I refer to the judgement of the Senate the question of whether a vacancy has happened in the Senate and when such vacancy happened. 
The Government then put up a proposition that this question should be determined by the High Court of Australia. But what does the Opposition say about the High Court of Australia? The Opposition says that the highest court in Australia is not the appropriate body; it is not qualified to discharge this duty. We have on the other side a body of people, who parade the virtues of democracy and who have pledged themselves to uphold law and order, denying the highest authority in Australia the opportunity to determine an issue that is of importance to all Australians. 
I now come to what is claimed to be  Mr Gair's  resignation. I challenge any honourable senator in this chamber to indicate which part of his letter states that it is a letter of resignation. I wish to read 2 sections of it. In his letter  Mr Gair  states: 
My appointment was approved by the Governor-General on 14 March 1 974, with my knowledge and consent. 

 Senator McManus implied that former  Senator Gair  was incapable of making a decision, but  Mr Gair,  who  Senator McManus  now says is a wonderful man, says that he was appointed to the position with his knowledge and consent. In his letter  Mr Gair  continues: 
I was informed on 20 March that the Government of Ireland had communicated its agreement to my appointment. 
Is that significant? Of course it is. The letter continues: 
As you are aware, the position of Ambassador is an office of profit under the Crown and also carries with it fees for services rendered to the Commonwealth, within the meaning of section 45 ofthe Constitution, which I had agreed to take. 
Surely,  Mr Deputy President,  that indicates that the  President  of the Senate received no resignation.  Mr Gair  himself said that he ceased to hold his position as a senator when he accepted the appointment on 20 March. Of course, the reason that so much is being made of this matter is because of its political content. The fact remains that on 21 June 1973 in the Commonwealth Gazette- all honourable senators have had a copy of this document to read-  Her  Royal Highness stated: 
Now therefore, acting with the advice of the Executive Council of Australia, and in the exercise of all powers Us thereto enabling, we do hereby assign to the GovernorGeneral of Australia, in addition to all other powers and functions previously assigned to the Governor-General, all our powers and functions in respect of the following matters: 
the appointment of Ambassadors Extraordinary ... to represent the interests of Australia and the termination of appointments of Ambassadors Extraordinary . . . 
The Governor-General has that authority. What do we find in the remainder of the papers that were tabled in the Senate by the Leader of the Government? One of the documents is a letter written by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and dated 14 March 1974. It reads: 
Your Excellency, 
The Government wishes to appoint The Honourable  Mr Vincent  Clair Gair, who is presently a Queensland member of the Australian Senate, as its Ambassador to the Republic of Ireland. 
The letter goes on to say other things about  Mr Gair.  The penultimate paragraph states: 
The Government considers that  Mr Gair  is well suited to the position of Ambassador to the Republic of Ireland and I recommend that you approve his appointment. 
The letter is signed 'E. G. Whitlam'. The notation on that letter by the Governor-General is this: 'Approved. Paul Hasluck. 14 March 1974'. Are honourable senators opposite disputing the fact that that correspondence was entered into with the Governor-General? Are honourable senators opposite disputing the fact that  Sir Paul  Hasluck, consistent with all the powers that this Parliament gave him, approved that appointment on 14 March 1974? The next document which was tabled is an inward cablegram addressed to the Department of Foreign Affairs. It reads as follows: 
Agreement for Gair has been given. Irish Government would appreciate advance information of date of announcement. 
That cablegram was forwarded on 19 March 1974 and received in Australia on 20 March 1974. Does that not indicate that the Government asked  Mr Gair  whether he wished to take this position?  Mr Gair  said that he accepted it quite voluntarily. The Irish Government returned the compliment and said: 'Yes, we are quite happy to have him'. That affirmative reply was communicated by means of the cablegram that was received on 20 March 1974. The next document which was tabled is a Minute Paper for the Executive Council, and its subject is the appointment of  Senator the  Honourable Vincent Clair Gair as Ambassador Extraordinary of Australia to the Republic of Ireland. The Minute states: 
Recommended for the approval of His Excellency the Governor-General in Council that 
in relation to the appointment of  Senator the  Honourable Vincent Clair Gair as Ambassador Extraordinary ... of Australia to the Republic of Ireland, he shall be paid such salary and allowances . . . 
There are 3 paragraphs in that Minute which indicate that this matter had been before the Governor-General in Council. Again the Minute was signed by the Governor-General,  Sir Paul  Hasluck, on 21 March 1974, and it was filed in the records of the Executive Council. These are the steps that were taken to achieve the appointment of  Mr Gair  to the position of Ambassador of Ireland. What more does anybody want? The facts are that  Senator Gair,  as he then was, was asked whether he would take this position. He accepted the position. The Governor-General was asked whether he would approve the appointment, and he did so. The next step was to ask the Irish Government whether it approved the proposal. The next step was to take the matter to the Executive Council and again the Governor-General,  Sir Paul  Hasluck, approved all those steps being taken. Therefore it is inconsistent with the facts for other people to say that  Mr Gair  terminated his association with the Senate on Wednesday night last. The fact remains that the Governor-General said that he terminated his association with the Senate on or about 20 March 1974. But the legal eagles on the other side of the chamber have tried to make all the capital they can out of it by saying that these were snide moves on our part. 
If we are to talk about snide moves, let me now refer to the actions of the Queensland Government which is headed by Premier Joh BjelkePetersen. Honourable senators opposite talk of democracy but when it comes to the crunch as to whether democracy is being observed we must have a look at some of the activities of these people who claim to be so righteous in their attitude towards democracy. I remember quite well an episode which occurred at a time when the present Premier was a Cabinet Minister in the Queensland Government. On that occasion a Senate vacancy was caused by the death of a senator from Queensland, and this man who now professes to have all the rights to democracy made a complete and utter joke of the process by which a successor was appointed. Upon being asked to nominate and appoint a successor, the Australian Labor Party nominated a person who had run third on the Australian Labor Party ticket at the previous election. But this gentleman from Queensland said that because the person we nominated was a wharf labourer he was completely unacceptable to the Country-Liberal Party Government in Queensland at that time. A tremendous political argument ensued. At last the Queensland Government submitted 2 names and said that unless we selected one of those 2 people it would give the position to a member of the Liberal Party or the Country Party. They are the ethics that are paraded by the Opposition as those of a great democrat. They are the ethics and standards that were observed in Queensland by the people with whom honourable senators opposite are proud to associate. I believe that they should be ashamed to associate with them. In order to provide a replacement senator from the Australian Labor Party we were required by the Queensland Government to submit 2 names. Otherwise the position would have gone to a member of another political party.  Mr Deputy President,  you would be aware of those circumstances. I rest on the fact that the Government has a responsibility, if there is any uncertainty at all, to ask the highest court in the land to determine the issue. People more qualified than I to speak on this subject have said that that is the proper course. I will now read the final paragraph of the opinion of  Mr Colin  Howard, General Counsel to the AttorneyGeneral: 
On this basis I am of opinion that on some date before 2 April 1974, that being the date upon which writs were issued for the election of senators from the State of Queensland, most probably on 2 1 March 1 974, but possibly on 14 March 1 974,  Senator Gair  ceased to be qualified to be a senator. 
Honourable senators opposite put the view that the General Counsel to the Attorney-General is wrong. Let us see who is right. Surely members of the Opposition would regard the High Court of Australia as the proper authority to determine whether they as laymen are correct or whether the General Counsel to the Attorney-General is correct. Honourable senators opposite also dispute the opinion of the Solicitor-General of Australia. That is their fundamental right, but surely they would not place themselves in the same category in respect of knowledge of the law as the Solicitor-General of Australia. No one on this side of the chamber has tried to put himself in that position and I do not think that anyone on the other side should try to do so. The next proposition is to refer the whole matter to the highest legal authority in Australia. I commend to the Senate the proposition of the Government. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Health any knowledge of the proposal to establish hostels for intellectually handicapped people in Brisbane, Ipswich and Redcliffe? Will the Minister indicate the number of such hostels planned for this purpose? 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Media. What has been done to encourage the composition of Australian music? Does the Australian Broadcasting Control Board's requirement that 10 per cent of music played on local radio stations be performed by Australians have any effect on increasing the number of popular locally composed songs? 

 -Mr President, I bring up the second report from the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security seen reports of the confused ramblings of the Leader of the Opposition in which he proposes drastic cuts in public spending? Does the Minister not agree that the lack of any clear proposals by the Opposition, together with its obsession with public spending, must mean that it would want to cut spending on education, health and welfare? Does the Minister not think that it would be immoral for any government to cut pensions? What would be the general effect of cuts in social welfare payments? 
I had no intention of entering into this debate until honourable senators on the Opposition side tried to parade their virtues in relation to what was done in the calamity which struck Queensland recently. I feel it necessary for me to do so now because of the statements that have been made by the representative of the Democratic Labor Party,  Senator Byrne.  One would think after listening to him that he was the only person in Queensland or Australia who had done any work at all. While he was running around the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics people in Queensland were doing all the work. When he came back, that representative of a rump group suggested that something should be done. The fact remains that when this disaster struck, a meeting of representatives of the Australian Labor Party in Queensland was organised very quickly and the respective areas were allocated to all members to do work of a humane nature. Each and every one of us ploughed through mud almost up to our knees helping people in those areas who were stricken. 

 Senator Byrne has told us all the things that he had done. Everything that the DLP suggested should be done had been done in the first place principally by  Mr Manfred  Cross,  Dr Rex 
Patterson,  Mr Brendan  Hansen and  Senator Keeffe  from north Queensland. These people were in constant touch with the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  to arrange all the facilities that the Federal Government could provide in the way of relief for the people of Queensland. All the facilities of the armed Services were made available. I want to pay tribute to the wonderful work done particularly by the servicemen of the Royal Australian Air Force and the Army during those terrible days. I believe that other aspects of the work should be made known. The legislation provides for a substantial amount of money. Personally, I do not think that it will be sufficient. 
Tragic circumstances were associated with the flood. Four servicemen lost their lives. We immediately contacted  Mr Barnard  and  Mr Crean  to ask that money be made available for the distressed widows and children of those servicemen. This information has never been released but I am going to say here and now that the Government generously made money available to the extent of $14,500 to the widows and $5 a week for each child. The widows have now applied for benefits under the Repatriation Act. The Repatriation Department is currently considering their entitlement. These are things for which the Government has never received any commendation. I would say that the breweries would be very pleased with the generous treatment provided by the Government, at the instance particularly of the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Senator Murphy),  when the Government refunded all the excise duty that had been paid on all the bottled beer that had to be destroyed under the provisions of the Health Act. The amount of revenue lost by the Government does not appear in this amount of money that is to be provided. 

 Mr Crean and  Mr Barnard  not only were on the job immediately but also visited the stricken people in these areas to see what they could do for them. I arranged personally for Ministers to come up and go through the University of Queensland and as a result of that the Government has made $lm available to the University of Queensland to restore that university, particularly the grounds, to the condition it was in prior to the flood. I believe that the Australian Government can take great credit for what it has done in all the circumstances. The Service personnel played a wonderful part. 
The only difficulty experienced arose from the failure of the Queensland Government to declare a state of emergency. Had it done so, there would have been a lot less loss and lives would have been saved. The fact is that the servicemen and civil defence workers went to homes and asked people to leave. The people said: 'No, a flood has never got up this far yet. We will not go'. The same personnel had to go back again to try to encourage the people to leave their homes because the water was rising. Again the people, particularly the elderly, said that they would not leave. That meant that the civil defence workers and Service personnel had to return again, and it was then that lives were lost. Because a state of emergency was not declared, the civil defence workers were powerless to compel people to leave their homes. It was a sad reflection on the Queensland Government that it did not have the foresight to do that. However, that is merely a comment. 
I commend the Australian Government for the humane work it did in providing all the Army personnel, the Royal Australian Air Force personnel, helicopters, planes and other facilities. I pay a special tribute to  Dr Rex  Patterson, who did a marvellous job in north Queensland where the flooded areas were far more extensive than they were in Brisbane and Ipswich. He was among the people in that area all the time. This flood was an unfortunate occurrence. I believe that it was one of the worst disasters we have seen since the white man first inhabited Australia. I trust that we will never see the like of it again. I commend the Bill and the generosity of the Australian Government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 

 -Mr President, I congratulate  Senator Webster  on his election as  Chairman  of Committees. I know that he will discharge the responsibilities of his office without favour. He has occupied the position in the past and I believe that he has given satisfaction to the Senate. I thank those who supported my nomination. I assure  Senator Webster  and honourable senators generally that I will do everything possible to uphold the prestige of the Senate and to see that the decorum of the Senate is maintained to the advantage of the people of Australia. 

 Senator MURPHY (New South WalesLeader of the Government in the Senate)- On behalf of the Government I congratulate  Senator Webster  on his re-election and elevation to this important office in the Senate. We all know that the office calls for impartiality and fairness. We would expect that  Senator Webster  would demonstrate that impartiality and fairness which is a characteristic of this very high office. The office calls in no small measure, as does that of the  President  of the Senate, for its occupant to detach himself from the kind of interchange and perhaps participation in debate which occurs among the rest of us. We trust and hope that  Senator Webster  will carry out that responsibility and we give him our best wishes in his doing so. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Customs and Excise. Newspaper reports circulated recently suggest that the Department of Customs and Excise has been examining imports to see whether the currency revaluations and duty reductions that came into effect last year have resulted in lower prices of imports. The action taken by the Government was announced as being part of its policy to counter inflationary movements. Could the Minister advise the Senate whether those newspaper reports are accurate and, if so, the outcome of such investigations by the Department? 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. As a result of the Government's decision to admit civilian patients to repatriation hospitals when spare bed capacity is available, can the Minister inform the Senate how many civilian patients have been admitted to such hospitals since the policy was introduced and what effect this policy has had on the provision of treatment for ex-servicemen? 
-This may be regarded as a question supplementary to the previous question; it is along the same lines. It is addressed to the Attorney-General. Will the AttorneyGeneral make inquiries to ascertain whether, prior to the recent general election, the Queensland Law Society sent out to all its members an official notification that they should vote against Australian Labor Party candidates because of the fact that the Attorney-General had instituted free legal aid in Queensland? Will he make inquiries to see whether that also impinges on the rights of individual members of the Queensland Law Society? 
-I address my question to the Minister for the Media. As it has been frequently reported that the Minister has drawn attention to the fact that Channel 0 in Brisbane does not provide even a news service for viewers, has anything been done about this, and has any attempt been made to encourage regional commercial stations to carry a local news service? 
Has the Minister for Customs and Excise seen a recent Press report concerning balloon-blowing novelties which, by virtue of the fumes emitted from the balloon substance, may make children sick? If these novelties are imported, what action does the Minister propose to take against them? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security indicate whether a calculation has been made of the percentage of average weekly earnings which will be represented by the new standard weekly pension rate which is to be introduced by the Australian Government? 
I believe that this matter has been canvassed sufficiently, and if honourable senators would only recall what they have had to say about it they would arrive at the same conclusion. At about 8 p.m. last night the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  moved that the resumption of the debate on the report ofthe Remuneration Tribunal be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. What do you think  Senator Greenwood  said to that?  Senator Greenwood  said: 
If the Government wants to make the debate upon this statement an order of the day for the next day of sitting, so be it, we will not oppose that. 
-I will quote first what  Senator Greenwood  had to say because I think, with due respect, he is more important that  Senator Wright. Senator Greenwood  said: 
Now we are told that there is a report which is tabled. However, I have not seen the report. We are then told that there is to be a debate on the statement and that the debate is to take place on the next day of sitting. 
Subsequently he said: 'Yes, we will debate it at the next day of sitting'.  Senator Wright  is reported at page 422 of Hansard as having said: 
I do not want to go into the merits. I am just trying to bring the mind of the Senate into the focus of the debate which will come to the crunch point as to whether we should make the debate on the matter under discussion an order of the day for the next day of sitting or immediately pronounce some opinion upon the matter. 
Further on in the same speech he said:   . . I say quite emphatically that I will move at the first appropriate opportunity for disapproval ofthe report 
Surely,  Mr President,  they themselves are condemned by their own approach to the matter. I therefore move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put- 
-The Minister for the Media will be aware of the market for audio visual presentations which appear to be an economical means of communication for both educational and promotional purposes, and that it is rapidly expanding. In view of this expansion will the Minister indicate what moves are being undertaken by the Department of the Media in relation to audio visual aids? 
It must be comforting to young senators- I exclude myself- to know that their prospects are that as they reach 70 years of age no one will treat them seriously, and no one has treated  Senator Wright  seriously today. 
Of course you would, but you would not be game to deny anything that he has said. I have never heard such slanderous attacks on people who have tried to do a job for the Australian community than  Senator Wright's  advocacy today. Words such as Shylocks, cheats and liars were directed at  Sir James  Vernon,  Mr B.  J. Callinan and  Mr J.  J. Kennedy. That is precisely what  Senator Wright  was calling them. Last week we heard him denounce a Queensland supreme court judge. If he wishes to indulge in those tactics, he is not acting in the spirit of a decent Australian. He should not attack people who investigate matters for the Australian government. I do not care who is in power; if people accept the responsibility of doing a survey, they are entitled to the respect of members of this Parliament. Today they did not get the respect to which they are entitled, and I was ashamed to hear from those who profess to believe in democracy words such as those which emanated from  Senator Wright  today. I accuse him straightforwardly of suggesting that  Sir James  Vernon is a Shylock and that the other 2 gentlemen who sat with  Sir James  are equally classified in that category.  His  suggestion is nothing short of downright disgraceful conduct. If he saw  Sir James  outside tonight he would be bowing and scraping to  Sir James  as if  Sir James  were the archbishop of all archbishops. 
I wish to raise a matter which my colleague  Senator Lawrie  raised about post offices in Queensland. Throughout Australia so many unions are operating in the Post Office field that it becomes an impossible financial burden to keep supply up to demand. If we did as  Senator Lawrie  suggested, we would not be asked to pay 9c to send a letter, we would be asked to pay something nearer 12c. I come now to this important point: We have tried to make possible and easy amalgamation in the trade union movement. What have  Senator Lawrie  and his colleagues on the other side done? On each occasion they have opposed our efforts to make amalgamation in the trade union movement easier. Consequently, he has to suffer the penalty of his stupidities in that direction. 
Did you interject,  Senator Maunsell? 
I did not think you did. 
I wish you would speak up.  Senator Lawrie  complained bitterly that people in country areas cannot get telephones. We have been in power for about 2 years. The previous Government was in power for 23 years. I have heard him complain bitterly at meetings of a Senate Estimates Committee of which  Senator Davidson  was  Chairman  that his Government was doing nothing to provide telephone services for people in country areas. He produced about 500 illustrations. Everybody became sick and tired of what he was talking about. But the situation is that his own government was in power and after 23 years it was unable to provide that service for the people whom the honourable senator is supposed to represent. If we are going to discuss these matters let us at least be honest in our approach to them. Do honourable senators opposite think that anybody on the Government side wants to increase postal charges? Do they believe that we on this side are in sheer delight because this legislation is before the Senate? It is before the Senate because the Government has the courage to measure up to its responsibilities to the Australian people. There was one man in the Liberal-Country Party Government who also had that courage. He was the former PostmasterGeneral,  Sir Alan  Hulme. On more than one occasion he implored the Government of the day to increase postal charges. 
The honourable senator says: 'You knocked him back'. I thank him very much for the interjection. It was he, this wheat farmer from South Australia, who knocked back the former Postmaster-General. He was one who, at a time when he had all the evidence at his disposal, could not even see the advantages of the Dartmouth Dam. But now he comes in and says that we knocked him back. Have honourable senators ever heard anything so incorrect in all their born days? The senator from South Australia- a very junior South Australian senator-knocked back the wisdom that was forthcoming from the then PostmasterGeneral. 
No. On the contrary, he put a proposal to the Cabinet and to the Party meeting on more than one occasion but it was refused. That is general knowledge and it is accepted. Now I come back to the point. Do honourable senators opposite think that the Government wants to increase charges? It has increased the charges because- notwithstanding what  Senator Wright  said- it believes that they are justified. Do any honourable senators opposite believe that there should be an increase in charges if it is recommended? Do they believe that the Post Office should, as nearly as possible, pay its own way? I do not hear any comment from the other side denying that argument. It is just as well that honourable senators opposite do not deny it because if they did they would be in real trouble. 
The Opposition has referred to what  Senator Murphy  said. It is strange that nothing was said about the remarks of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. At page 1360 of Hansard of 1 1 May 1967, in his second reading speech on the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill, he said: 
It has also a responsibility to pay its way. 
I do not go drinking vodka with the Russians on their national day and then complain about the communists.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson said: 
It has also a responsibility to pay its way rather than incur losses to be made good by the taxpayer. I am sure honourable senators will agree with the principle that costs should be borne by the people who use the service. 
That was what was said by the then Liberal leader in the Senate,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson- a man for whom we all have a very high regard. What did  Senator Webster,  a member of the Australian Country Party, say? At page 1511 of Hansard of 12 May 1 967 he said: 
Let us cut back our expansion in order to avoid these rising costs. 
I hope that  Senator Lawrie  heard that. One of his Party's leaders said: 'Let us cut back the expansion of the Post Office. ' He continued: 
Let us not commit ourselves to the purchase of all the excellent equipment now available for providing an efficient modernised system of communication. We are faced with the alternative of either reducing expenditure by curtailing our service and the development of more efficient service in the future or else allowing the present rates of charges to continue and meeting the growing deficiency from general taxation revenue. ... I believe we should give our support to a government which has been bold enough at this time to increase these rates and to give the Parliament an opportunity of discussing them. 

 Senator Webster said that in 1967. Another pillar of the Liberal Party and, again, one for whom we have a high regard-  Senator Cottonsaid  at page 1497 of Hansard of 12 May 1967: 
I think that business undertakings of governments are to be regarded as far as possible as commercial undertakings and they should be asked and expected to pay their way. 

 - Senator Cotton. He was the previous Government's spokesman on these matters. But now we find the Opposition saying that the increases are not justified. They were justified in 1967. 
The honourable senator quoted what  Senator Murphy  said but he did not carry on and tell the full story. I will tell the full story. Do honourable senators want me to tell the full story of what  Senator Murphy  said? They have not told it and they do not want it to be told because it goes against them. 
What did  Senator Webster  say about country services?  Senator Lawrie  ought not to take  Senator Murphy  to task because he will eat him alive, without salt. Are we alone in suggesting that postal charges should be increased? What happened in 1969-70 when the Opposition was in government? It increased postal charges by lc. Honourable senators should not fall into the trap and say that we are increasing them by 2c, because in 1970-71 the previous Government further increased them by lc, making an increase of 2c. Then in 1971-72 there was a further increase of lc, making 3c in 3 years. But by a strange coincidence that was not sufficient to cover the expenses of the Post Office. The year 1972 was an election year, so what did the previous Government do? It ducked for cover. It did not have the courage to face up to its responsibilities and bring in further legislation in that direction. It may be unfortunate for  Senator Wright  that he believes that  Sir James  Vernon and the 2 other Commissioners are unscrupulous people. I do not believe that they are. They have set out, chapter and verse, the situation of the Post Office for the future. 
As my colleague says, it is an excellent report. The situation is that the Post Office has been losing money for years. On innumerable occasions I have heard the pillars of free enterprise say that there should be a statutory organisation to control the Post Office. 
They say that it should be run on business lines, that it cannot be run by public servants who know nothing about the game. Honourable senators opposite have said it in their turn time and again. So the Government set up a Commission of Inquiry comprising  Sir James  Vernon and those other two gentlemen to whom I have referred. They brought down a report. Tonight we heard  Senator Wright  make a trenchant criticism of the report, but on no occasion did he produce evidence to support any of his remarks. Honourable senators will recall that on one occasion he said that it took 9 days to deliver a letter from here to the other side of Canberra. Challenged for the evidence he could not produce it.  His  words, as usual, are emotionally toned and have no basis in fact. 
It is, as my colleague  Senator McAuliffe  said, a figment of his imagination. He had the audacity to criticise caustically the report brought down by the Commissioners but on no occasion did he present any contraargument that would support anything he said. Notwithstanding the fact that it irritated him to read some of the comments, I will repeat them for the benefit of the people. Table 7.2, titled Superannuation Costs 1973-74 to 1976-77 Chargeable to Profit and Loss Accounts', shows that in respect to telecommunications the estimated cost will be $67.6m in 1 976-77. Are we not entitled to and should we not take into consideration what the commissioners said are the foreseeable costs? Would we not be remiss in our responsibility if, having asked somebody to investigate a matter and having been given by them the results chapter and verse, we say that we are not going to take any notice of those results whatsoever? 
Table 7.3 refers to postal services profit and loss accounts and shows a projected loss for the year 1976-77 of $ 154m. Are we going to accept that or will we face up to our responsibility to see what we can do to overcome that loss? I repeat that it is not for any of us here to say that we are in favour of and want to see higher costs. We are compelled to take this course of action because if we do not we will not be acting in the interests of the Australian people. Table 7.4 deals with telecommunications profit and loss accounts and shows that in 1968-69 there was a profit of $ 16.7m and that in 1976-77 there will be a projected loss of $87m. At this stage it is showing a profit, but are we not entitled to look ahead and ask what will happen in the future? Will anybody deny that the Post Office will have capital expenditure requirements in the future? 
I refer now to Table 7.6 which deals with capital expenditure requirements. In 1972-73 it was $482m actual and in 1976-77 the projected figure is $9 10m. One would not need to be an Einstein to accept that in that period of time the capital expenditure requirements of the Post Office will rise by the figure indicated by the commissioners. But  Senator Wright  said that the commissioners are charlatans and Shylocks. Yet they come up with these figures after having evidence submitted to them from all sections of the community. Table 7.8 shows the projected financial position of telecommunications services based on figures contained in table 7.4. In table 7.8 we see that the trading profit for 1973-74 was $30m but that in 1976-77 there will be a loss of $87m. Consequently we believe that it is our responsibility to face up to the facts as they are presented in the report, an independent report presented by people who are respected in the community who had as their  chairman  a person who had been briefed by the previous government. Consequently the Opposition must believe that he is a man of repute, as we believe he is. We believe that on the Commission's findings we are compelled to come before the Senate today to ask for the increased charges, not because we want to, but because we believe it is in the interests of Australians that we do so. I ask the Senate to reject the pious amendment that was moved to the motion and to vote for the positive approach in the interests of Australia. 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. As Australia is a member of the International Labour Organisation, can the Minister inform the Senate of what this Government is doing to fulfil its obligations as a member of this organisation? 
No one would deny that the Governmentany government- should provide for an adequate level of finance for housing. But there are other things - 
Here is the doctor interjecting. He had better have a look at the medical benefits funds in New South Wales. 
At least I address the Chair courteously. I do not abuse supreme court judges and I do not abuse people who cannot defend themselves in the Senate chamber. The situation is that several other things could be added to the legislation if it were so desired. 
Has the honourable senator finished speaking or is he still mumbling in his beard over there? It must amaze young people to hear the licence that a 70 year-old senator receives. As I have said, the situation is that other things could be added to the legislation. But I say that the words 'economic prosperity and welfare of the people of Australia' comprehend an amazing number of things. Obviously, housing would come into that category, as would conservation and parklands, if it were so desired, along with many other things. I know that the Opposition has moved this amendment with the best intentions in the world. But I believe that if honourable senators opposite examine the words 'economic prosperity and welfare of the people of Australia' they will see that that phrase comprehends the proposition they have put forward and, most certainly, comprehends other propositions that could be put forward by way of amendment. 

 -Before Senator Cotton replies I point out that clause 14(1) as it appears in the proposed amendment is identical with the printed clause 14 (1), so I take it that it is not in dispute. 
-I present the first report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
I personally am not clear on the intention as to what should remain in the legislation. Does it mean,  Mr Chairman,  that clause 49 ( 1 ) will now read: 
A corporation shall not, in trade or commerce, discriminate between purchasers . . . 
Is that the intention? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs been drawn to the text of a recent newspaper article which describes the draft of the Treaty of Nara- the treaty to be concluded between Japan and Australiaas being so drained of content as to be meaningless? In view of the importance of Japan's relations with Australia will the Minister assure the Senate that the Treaty to be negotiated will reflect that importance? 
I ask honourable senators opposite not to proceed with their amendment. I believe that there is adequate provision in the draft of the legislation to protect against everything which has been said here today by honourable senators opposite. I think that in sub-clause (2) we have all the protection that is necessary. It states: 
Any direction given to the Commission under sub-section ( I ) shall be in writing and the Attorney-General shall cause a copy of the direction to be published in the Gazette as soon as practicable after the direction is given. 
Can honourable senators visualise any AttorneyGeneral giving a stupid direction? He would not give a stupid direction. He would give what he believed was a sensible and reasonable direction. But he must give it in writing. Then, having given it in writing, he must have it published in the Gazette'. Surely that is an adequate safeguard against something unforeseen. Honourable senators opposite in all their wisdom say that everything is covered by all the provisions of this legislation. But can they say that everything is covered? I do not think they can. This provision is to provide for special circumstances. I suggest, with respect, that whoever was AttorneyGeneral would not use the power prescribed by this sub-clause unless there were special circumstances. The Attorney-General having used the power is then under the complete control of Parliament. I ask, therefore, that the clause remain as it stands. 
I found it rather amusing tonight to hear  Senator Durack  criticise the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  for some sloppy preparation of material for the Senate. One would think that  Senator Durack,  having said all those unkind things about the Minister, would be perfect himself. But what do we find? In relation to the first amendment he has circulated in the Senate he had to say: 'I am sorry,  Mr Chairman,  but I should not have put that in because it is completely wrong'. Have honourable senators ever heard such an admission from one who is so suspect himself that all he can find in others is suspicion?  Senator Hall  referred to the actions of the Premier of his State of South Australia. I think that he has been a little fortunate. My political opinion may be coloured too, but if the honourable senator had had to work under a Country Party Premier since 1957 I think he would admit, seeing there are so many things that need to be done in Queensland, that it is about time an Australian Government took an interest in the affairs of the State governments and the local government authorities. 

 Senator Greenwood, who is trying to interject, comes from a pocket-handkerchief State so he had better keep out of it. He has had about 15 hours in the last 2 days so I suggest he leave it at that. 
Mention was made tonight of the road from Brisbane to Cairns. Honourable senators who have been on this main road would know how many miles are single track areas. Surely it is time, having regard to the number of motor cars that use this road, that something was done to improve it. I say, with respect, that  Senator Durack  endeavoured to gild the lily in the remarks that he made tonight. May I remind the honourable senator that by seeking to delete subclause ( 1 ) of clause 4 he consequently has no clause at all left. 
Where do you say that you start clause 4 in the rest of your amendment? If the honourable senator is going to be so pedantic as to pick on Ministers he should be a little more careful in his own draftsmanship.  Senator Durack  has referred to all the powers of the Minister in clause 4(1). But he fails to give the Senate and the people of Australia the benefit of his knowledge of sub-clause (2). He says that the Minister restricts to himself all the responsibilities in clause 4(1). But the wording of sub-clause (2) says something entirely different from that, and it must be read in conjunction with subclause ( 1 ). For the benefit of the Committee I will read the appropriate part of sub-clause (2) which states: 
For the purpose of this Act, the Minister, after consultation with the appropriate Minister of a State - 
What does that suggest? Does that not suggest that we will try to get an over-all situation throughout Australia, and that the Australian Government Minister- your Minister- would then co-operate and consult with the States on the programs that would be most beneficial to the States and to Australia? Are honourable senators opposite Australians, or will they continue to adopt the parochial attitudes that they have demonstrated in some quarters tonight? I say with due respect that there is absolutely nothing wrong with sub-clauses ( 1 ) and (2) of clause 4 because they give adequate provision for the Minister to confer with the States. There is no ambiguity whatsoever about what is contained in the sub-clauses. Sub-clause (2) states: 
For the purposes of this Act, the Minister, after consultation with the appropriate Minister of a State- 
may approve programs by way of- 
i ) the construction of rural arterial roads; 
ii ) the construction of developmental roads; 
iii ) The construction and maintenance of rural local roads; and 
minor traffic engineering and road safety improvements, respectively, in respect of the State for a period to which this section applies; 
It has been suggested tonight that the Minister wants to ride roughshod over a State. There is nothing further from the truth when we examine the wording of sub-clause (2). It is all very well for  Senator Greenwood  who, I repeat, comes from the pocket handkerchief State of Victoria, to sit back and direct all the animosity at his disposal at Ministers of the Crown. The fact remains that this is the first attempt in the history of Australia that an Australian Government is trying to do something for local authorities. Consequently I urge the Senate to reject the amendment moved by  Senator Durack. 
Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Is the Minister for Customs and Excise aware that there have been complaints in a Brisbane newspaper that certain canned vegetables imported from Taiwan could be a health risk because they may have been grown in human waste? If so, what action has the Minister taken on these importations? Does his Department exercise continuous controls over the quality of imported foodstuffs? 
Has the Minister for the Media seen a report that a new feature film is to be made in Australia with a Chinese actor playing the lead role? Will this film, entitled 'The Man From Hong Kong', be predominantly Australian in content, or will it be a form of international co-production such as we have seen in the past? Will the Australian Government participate in the production of this film? 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Media. Yesterday the Minister informed the Senate that the level of publishing and printing handled by his Department for the Government in the past 12 months amounted to more than $20m. Can the Minister indicate the reasons for such a marked increase in the amount of printing and publishing handled by the Government? In view of my interest in printing, which is accurately described as the 'Art, Preservative of All Arts', when is it expected that an Australian Government bookshop and inquiry office will be established in Brisbane? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. Is the Minister in a position to advise whether or not the study of the redevelopment of Canberra, announced some time ago by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, is continuing? If the study is continuing, could the Minister inform the Senate what has so far been learned from such inquiry? 

 -Mr President, I bring up the second report from the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
I ask the Minister for the Media: Have any Australia-wide surveys ever been undertaken to determine whether television viewers have expressed any objection to frequent interruptions to commercial station programs for advertisements? If no survey has been instituted, will the Minister consider obtaining an expression of opinion from the public on this matter? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Can he inform the Senate whether there is a policy ensuring that employees of sensitive defence and security establishments are Australian citizens? 
Could I follow on briefly from what  Senator Missen  has said. I think it may be of interest to honourable senators. 
-I do not wish to take advantage of any situation. For the information of the Senate, I think honourable senators will all agree that the report that was tabled this morning was a very important document. As  Chairman  of the Publications Committee I have taken a flying minute of members of that Committee to see if the report can be printed in a somewhat unusual manner so that publishing can be expedited. I do not know the result of that minute but I expect the remainder of the Committee to agree with the suggestion I have made. As a result, I think that there would be ample copies available inside a fortnight. 
Has the Minister for Agriculture seen reports in the Queensland Press that the Australian Government, while assisting financially in the control of the plague locust, has refused funds to fight the spur throated locust swarms now threatening crops in Queensland? What are the facts of the situation? 
Can the AttorneyGeneral indicate whether Cambridge Credit Corporation Ltd accepted financial investments almost up to the day on which it was announced that the company was in the hands of a receiver? Will the Minister ascertain whether the aforementioned circumstance is substantially correct? If so, is the acceptance of financial investments in such a circumstance legal? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister. In view of the Opposition 's request that he and the Prime Minister define what may be regarded as excessive wage demands, does he regard the 28 per cent across the board salary and allowances increases retrospective to 1 July for State parliamentarians that was recently accepted and advocated by the Honourable Johannes Petersen, Premier of Queensland, as excessive? 

 - Mr Chairman, I think we are seeing a pitiful occurrence here tonight. A former Minister of the Crown knows that he is defeated and that it has been proved conclusively to him that the Government is merely introducing something which he favoured when he was a Minister of the Crown. Yet he does not attempt to defend what he did as a Minister but draws the argument away from himself by attacking the Government on sheer stupidities.  Mr Chairman,  what is the situation? On behalf of the Opposition  Senator Guilfoyle  has the carriage of this legislation. But  Senator Greenwood,  because of his unreasonably intense dislike for  Senator Hall,  takes the matter out of the hands of the person entrusted by the Opposition with the carriage of its amendments for the sake of trying to make political capital. The honourable senator is pitifully weak in this direction. I suggest that the Opposition should hand back the task to the person who has been entrusted with it so that she may continue in the direction she has been going. 
Is not that a little unfair to  Senator Hall?  He has moved an amendment to clause 10. The Minister has indicated that we are happy to accept that amendment, so surely that becomes part of clause 10. It appears to me that clause 10 with  Senator Hall's  amendment is to be held over for further consideration. 
I present the following petition from 129 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia, respectfully showeth- 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of the divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 
The Family Law Bill 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for six months and that ail sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Further to the reply of the Minister to a question asked yesterday by  Senator Keeffe,  will the Minister confirm that all repatriation boards will commence to give reasons for their decisions from 1 July 1975? Will this mean the appointment of additional repatriation boards in all States? When does the Minister intend directing the Repatriation Commission to give reasons for its decisions? 
I support this legislation. Before entering into discussion of the provisions contained in the legislation might I say that the great thanks of the industry, indeed of the Australian people, should be given to the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  for the way in which he has promoted his Department and has done everything possible to advance the interests of the people within the industry? If one were to think back a few years ago in terms of the Department of the Media, I suggest, with respect, that one would think of some aspects of radio, the Press and some minor aspects of television. Today when one speaks of the Department of the Media the advancement of Australian productions in the film industry instantly comes to mind. 
I commend to honourable senators the proposition that if they are ever in Sydney they should go to the Department of the Media to see the great advances that have been made in the area of film production and film distribution. I was recently fortunate enough to be there. I was amazed at the progress which has been made in that direction. I am sure that other honourable senators, if they went along to the Department to make an inspection, would be equally pleased to see the progress that has been made in this field. For instance, there are many outposts of the Australian Government throughout the world. Within a matter of 24 or 48 hours the films of important happenings in Australia can now be flown to and shown in these outposts. I refer to the recent joint sitting of both Houses of Parliament. Everybody referred to it as an historic occasion- as indeed it was. Honourable senators will be interested to know that within 48 hours a film of those proceedings was flown to our outposts throughout the world and shown. In addition to that, in the area of assisting migrants coming to Australia, educational talks and films are provided for those areas whence our migrants come. As a result they are better equipped to come into our country. All this means real progress and progress that has come about- I suggest- because of the enthusiasm of the Minister for the Media and the officers of his Department. 
The purpose of the Bill, of course, is to establish an Australian film authority to take the development of the Australian film industry one stage further in accordance with the plans of the Australian Labor Government. There has been a remarkable revival of the film industry in Australia. It has undergone many vicissitudes over the years but today we find that at least 22 films are being made at the present time. In the immediate past, those of our films which have been the most successful have been accepted overseas. I ask honourable senators to think back a few years and wonder whether they ever heard of films that had been made in Australia receiving world-wide acclaim? Today that is the situation. I refer particularly to that television series Seven Little Australians'. That has received wide acclaim throughout English speaking countries. Of course, this reflects credit on the industry in Australia. Other films which do not meet with my entire approval- in other words, they are not my kettle of fish- such as 'The Adventures of Barry McKenzie', 'Alvin Purple' and a flood of similar films, have been made and have been remarkably successful overseas. 
I suggest that this enthusiasm for our films in other countries indicates that a stage has been reached in Australia today at which the industry can go forward with confidence, knowing that its films will be accepted not only in Australia but also overseas. Of course, this is a great advertisement for Australia. I repeat that this has occurred in only a few short years. Hitherto, our film industry was almost dormant. There was no enthusiasm for it. In some directions, I pay tribute to Crawford Productions Pty Ltd. At least that company kept on operating and persevered. There may have been others, but Crawford Productions Pty Ltd carried on and endeavoured to establish the industry. Members of that organisation would tell honourable senators that it was not until recently that they received the encouragement from government to participate in this activity to the fullest possible extent. Now we see that with such encouragement there has been a further development in their films. I believe that that company is operating quite successfully today. 
These things do not just happen. There has to be leadership. I say with due respect- I wish that the Minister for the Media were not present to hear me say this-that it is principally his enthusiasm for his job and his knowledge of the industry and its requirements that have led to the revival of our industry to the point it has reached today. I believe that this legislation will go a step further towards achieving the objective of establishing an Australian film authority to give greater impetus, if that is possible, to the encouragement of the film industry in Australia. It is with a great deal of enthusiasm that I support this legislation. I believe that it is a further tribute to what has been done in the past and what will be done in the immediate future. I hope that we will see the same rate of progress and the same success in the film industry in the future. 
I too oppose the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Guilfoyle  on behalf of the Opposition. Previously in this chamber I have heard reference to the National Film Board of Canada, and I hope that the Minister will be able to enlighten us about the powers which the Canadian Minister has under the legislation which set up that Board. That legislation has been referred to as a pretty authoritative type of legislation. I rely on an aspect that I do not believe was covered by  Senator Guilfoyle  in moving the amendment. Clause 5 ( 1) (b) states that the functions of the Commission are: 
Subject to the approval of the Minister, to make, promote, distribute and exhibit any films and, in particular- 
films that serve the purposes of a Department of State or an authority of Australia. 
If one reads into that the powers that the Minister may exercise one sees that complete satisfaction is given to the States. For instance, there could be a request from the Queensland Government for a film about the Great Barrier Reef. Under those circumstances the Minister could exercise the power to assist the State. Of course, I refer to the Great Barrier Reef because I come from Queensland, but one could apply the argument to any State in the Commonwealth. One could apply it to the Chowilla Dam, if one wished to do so, and the same result. I say that because I believe it is important from the point of view of the States that the legislation should provide for some exercise of jurisdiction by the Minister. That is the way in which, as I interpret the clause, the Minister would exercise his authority or his approval in this direction. 
The intention of the Opposition in moving this amendment is as outlined by  Senator Greenwood.  He fears that this clause could be used as a political propaganda weapon. With respect, if the Opposition analyses the provisions of the legislation it will see how this would be almost a sheer impossibility. The illustration given by  Senator Greenwood  was that a Minister of the Crown could perhaps go to China and be photographed there. The reverse situation could happen- a member of the Opposition could go to China and be photographed. These photographs could be used for propaganda purposes. 
-He has been there. I would not be ashamed of the fact that I have been to China. 
But I would not be ashamed of that fact. I know  Senator Greenwood  would not be ashamed of the fact that he went to China to see for himself just what went on. Some members of the Country Party went to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics last year to learn what was going on. It was very good that they should do so. Let me come back to the point made by  Senator Greenwood  which was that this provision could give the Minister the right to use it as a political propaganda machine. The situation is that the Minister would be responsible to Parliament. Do honourable senators know how he would be responsible for his actions? He would be responsible under sub-clause (2) of clause 43. Honourable senators opposite know all about this clause because an amendment has been moved by the Opposition seeking to delete this clause. It states: 
The Commission shall set out, in its annual report, any directions given to the Commission by the Minister under section 8 during the period to which the report relates. 
The honourable senator has such a mind that he cannot trust anybody. Now he cannot trust the Commission. 
If honourable senators opposite are going to indulge in those tactics I ask: Who was it, when he was Attorney-General, who raided a kid 's home on Christmas Day to incarcerate him and take him away from his mother? 

 - Mr Chairman, 1 accept your rebuke. I will return to the clause of the Bill with which we are dealing. The situation is that an interjection was made to the effect that it will be too late to do anything of that nature. If honourable senators look at it in that way and say that there is a team from the Film Commission going to China today and they will show the film tomorrow, they have a pretty poor conception of what artists would do in the making of a good film. I would suggest that it would take a little longer than honourable senators opposite envisage. 
If the honourable senator wishes to refer to the ex-Attorney-General, she is at liberty to do so. I do not mind. The situation is that if that did happen the Commission would be required to report to Parliment what the Minister had directed it to do. Do honourable senators opposite mean to tell me that any parliament would accept any explanation of the nature that has been put forward by  Senator Greenwood?  Honourable senators opposite know quite well that if an independent commission put in its annual report that a Minister had directed it to do something that was contrary to its charter, the weight of the whole Parliament would be upon the Minister concerned. I would suggest to the Opposition that there are plenty of reasonable attitudes which could be adopted by the Parliament should the Minister overstep his mark. 

 - Senator Greenwood displays the trait of the lawyer or the barrister or whatever he may be. He tries to read something into a clause of the legislation and he says that it is bad. But the simple fact is that this was part of his Government's arrangements in 1966. He holds up a piece of paper and says: 'This is the proposition that is outlined in sub-clause (6) of this legislation'. He refers to the obligations of Australia under the Code of Liberalisation of Current Invisible Operations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. He denies that we, as a Government, should observe what has been arranged by the Australian Government in the past. 
He says that we should not accept those obligations, notwithstanding the fact that his Government was a party to accepting such obligations. I turn to another clause to which  Senator Greenwood  referred. Unfortunately he did not read out all the words in the clause about which he complained. I refer to the clause which contains the definition of an authorised person. Again one sees the trait of the practised lawyer coming through.  Senator Greenwood  read out some of the words in that clause which contain the definition of an authorised person, but he did not read out all the words. Honourable senators may recall that he said that the staff of the Commission may do certain things. What does the definition say? If  Senator Greenwood  had read all of this clause he would have had a greater appreciation of what the definition is. But he tried to cloud the issue. The definition of an authorised person is as follows:  authorised person' means a member of the Commission or of the staff of the Commission authorised by the Commission . . . 

 Senator Greenwood did not refer to those words authorised by the Commission'. He inferred that some message boy on the payroll of the Commission could undertake to do something. The plain fact is that the staff of the Commission must be authorised by the Commission to do a job, and that is a totally different proposition from that which has been advanced by  Senator Greenwood.  I am sorry to say that in my opinion this type of opposition to the legislation leaves a lot to be desired. It is an incomplete and dishonest approach to what we are considering to give to a definition an interpretation on which  Senator Greenwood  knows is completely wrong. 
I think the best way to approach this matter would be to take the amendment of  Senator Button  first, which is to delete the words Capital Hill' from the Bill and substitute the words 'Camp Hill'. There being no objections, that course of action will be followed. 

 -Mr Chairman, I put a positive proposition to you that the amendment is out of order. I do so on the score that it is a direct negative. I refer you to the definition of 'Australian short film' which appears on page 2 of the legislation. It reads: 
Australian short film' means- 
a short film made or commissioned by the Commission . . . 
The definition goes on to say other things. But the controlling words of the definition are 'a short film made or commissioned by the Commission'. You will see,  Mr Chairman,  that the Opposition's amendment gives the definition of an Australian short film as a short film. It does not include the words 'film made or commissioned by the Commission'. So the Bill says that a short film is something which is made or commissioned by the Commission and the amendment says completely the reverse. The amendment says that an Australian short film means a short film, and then it goes on to enumerate in sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii). It does not include the words 'made or commissioned by the Commission'. I am sorry to have to do this to you at short notice,  Mr Chairman.  I did not give you any advance warning as to what I believe to be the situation and I do not want to place you in any embarrassing position. Nevertheless, it is my opinion that the amendment is a direct negative. If you study the amendment closely I believe you will arrive at the same conclusion. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Webster)Senator  Milliner, I do not uphold your suggestion. It appears to me that in the full context of the amendment it is not a direct negative of what appears in the legislation. As you have stated your proposition, there certainly does appear to be an omission of those words 'a short film made or commissioned by the Commission'. But it is not for me to decide whether that happens to be a direct negative of the legislation. I uphold the amendment as it reads. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Attorney-General. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reported remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate that the Prime Minister, in a fit of arrogant pique, had decided to boycott the Constitution Convention and that the Government's insistence that  Senator Hall  should be represented at the Convention was totally unreasonable? Is it a fact that when the Constitution Convention was held in 1973 there were 8 Government representatives and 8 representatives agreed to between Opposition parties? Was there included in the 8 Opposition representatives representation' from the Australian Democratic Labor Party? Are we to assume from this arrangement that  Senator Greenwood  was prepared to accept a representative of the DLP as being entitled to be in attendance at the Constitutional Convention but is not prepared to give like representation to  Senator Hall,  who is a selfprofessed Liberal? 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that last night  Mr BjelkePetersen  introduced into the Queensland Parliament a Bill to set up a treaties commission? Is it the aim of the Bill, under the guise of examining Australia's treaties and relations with other countries, to allow the creation of a Queensland foreign service? Can the Minister say whether this commission, because of the provisions of the Australian Constitution, would really only have the power only to draw salaries and incur large costs at the expense of the Queensland taxpayer? 
I bring up the third report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
Will the Minister for the Media confirm that the introduction of the broadcasting system known as FM radio is soon to become a reality? Will he indicate the attitude of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in expediting this development? In the light of this advance in broadcasting, will the Minister translate for the Senate a Press statement by  Mr Ben  Hills of the Melbourne 'Age' newspaper that the Government was considering scrapping the Minister's plans for the introduction of FM radio? 
For the benefit of Opposition senators, will the Minister for Agriculture inform the Senate of the names of the personnel of the Australian Agricultural Council? Will he also indicate whether it would be untrue for any Opposition senator to claim wildly that the Federal Government has a very large influence on the decisions arrived at by that Council? 
I am sorry that honourable senators who have taken part in this debate- and  Senator Baume  in particular- have not referred to the material that has been supplied to them. I know that it is difficult at times for honourable senators to read and comprehend the multitudinous amount of material that is supplied to them. But only recently honourable senators received a publication entitled 'Guidelines for Pilot ProgramAustralian Assistance Plan, October 1974'. 
Now, please  Senator Baume  - 
If the honourable senator had the document why did he ask the question that he asked tonight? For instance, let me refer to some of the material to which the honourable senator could have referred to find the answers. For instance, paragraph 3.1 states: 
The function of Regional Councils is to stimulate interest and activity in the broad field of social development. They should give added impetus to initiatives within their regions to provide a wider range of welfare services and to test innovative programs for service delivery. 
This indicates to the honourable senator what the regional councils would be required to do. Another section of the pilot program details future anticipated events during the pilot period. Details of the first event read as follows: 
responsibility for payment of grants will be transferred from Central Office to the Department's State Headquarters in the six State capital cities- the State Headquarters (and eventually the Regional Offices) will be the point of contact with the Department by Regional Councils: 
The document goes on to give the details of other future events. In any case,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson really pointed out to the honourable senator, if he had listened to him, what was the situation. It is a pilot study. Again, if the honourable senator refers to the document he will see that paragraph 1.12 (f) states:  enabling legislation will be introduced into the Parliament. 
This will be done after we have taken all the necessary steps to see that this system is being run efficiently by other people.  Senator Greenwood,  in his customary form, tries to ridicule anything that anybody says. The fact remains that this is precisely what happened in regard to the Meals on Wheels organisation. Meals on Wheels was established. Very good people in the community gave their voluntary services to that wonderful organisation. After it was established in a pilot study way, legislation was enacted. Honourable senators opposite must know that of their own experience. But because the Australian Government has introduced something on this occasion that some honourable senators opposite do not like personally, they try to denigrate members of the regional councils who voluntarily give their services to this very noble work. They find that everything is wrong with the Plan. These honourable senators remind me of the fellow who goes to the beautiful botanic gardens. He walks around and sees all the wonderful displays of flowers in the gardens. The head gardener says to him: 'What do you think of the gardens?'. The man says: "There is a weed over there'. These honourable senators opposite do not look at the beauty of things. They look for the unnecessary points of view. Of course, that is typical of the attitude of honourable senators opposite when they refer to the trade union movement. If only they knew what the trade union movement had done in the social welfare field they would not be so keen to speak in such a fashion as they do about the trade union movement.  Mr Chairman,  let me tell you and honourable senators of a wonderful organisation that is established in Queensland today. It was established by an ex-judge of the Supreme Court of Queensland. 

 - Senator Bonner, you would not know the first thing about it. This organisation was established by an ex-judge of the Supreme Court of Queensland. I trust that I assisted in the establishment of that organisation in the first place. But do honourable senators know who was the first honorary secretary of this organisation? It was the secretary of the Electrical Trades Union, Archie Dawson. The treasurer of the organisation was the secretary of the Federated Furnishing Trade Society of Australasia,  Mr Hart.  There are many other trade union officials who were interested in assisting that organisation and who still do assist it. But they would receive no credit for that from  Senator Greenwood.  He is so prejudiced in his outlook against the trade union movement and against trade unionists that he can never see anything good that they may have done for mankind. Let me assure honourable senators that trade unions have done plenty that is to the advantage of: the people of Australia. I refer again to the document to which I referred a while ago entitled .'Guidelines for PilOt Program'.  Senator Baume  asked how these organisations account for the money. I invite him to look at Appendix H. This form is addressed to the DirectorGeneral, Department of Social Security. The organisation is required to submit its name and state that it accepts the offer in the letter from the Director General of funds for the purposes of the Australian Assistance Plan for social development. Then, the organisation is required, as stated in this letter: 
to provide to the Department of Social Security estimates of expenditure followed by certified progress reports of expenditure, at intervals required by the Department, in order that it may qualify for the continuing receipt of the Australian Government funds; 
to apply the funds for the purposes for which and in accordance with the terms upon which they are respectively provided; and 
in the event that any funds are not required for application or cannot be applied as aforesaid, to refund to your Department such funds as arc not required or capable of application. 
What safeguards additional to those do honourable senators want from a voluntary organisation? There are others if honourable senators would bother to look. If honourable senators read precisely what the work of the organisations is they Will find that information in the document. I refer now to the scathing criticism of some of the people who have volunteered their services for the regional councils. Honourable senators know these things, but in order to try to denigrate the work of the Australian Government they elect not to make known what they should disclose. I shall make the information known to the chamber now.  Mr Chipp,  in another place, asked the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden): 
Who are the members of the Rockhampton Social Welfare Development Planning Council, and what organisations do they represent? 
Do honourable senators opposite ever read? Do they know what is going on around them? The Minister answered. I want honourable senators opposite to take really serious notice of the personnel of the Rockhampton Social Welfare Development Planning Council and the organisations which they represent. The first is Canon R. Philp, who is a member of the Anglican Diocesan Social Responsibilities Committee. The second is  Dr A.  Appleton. He is the director of the Capricornia Institute of Advanced Education. The third is  Mrs M.  Nott who is an occupational therapist with the Department of Community Medicine.  Mr John  Provan is a medical supervisor at the Rockhampton Base Hospital. Sister Anne-Marie is a social worker and director of the Catholic Social Welfare Centre. She is a senior counsellor of the Queensland Marriage Guidance Council, Rockhampton Centre.  Mr D.  Jamieson is a director of the Social Security Department, Rockhampton.  Mr P.  Braddey is a solicitor. Perhaps if he were a barrister that might impress  Senator Greenwood  more.  Mr G.  Edminstone is liaison officer, Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs and  Mrs P.  Power is a member of the Queensland Marriage Guidance Council. 
I ask honourable senators opposite to compare the work of those people in the community with what they are advocating tonight. They are suggesting that local councillors should do this very important work which is asked of regional councils. Who do honourable senators opposite think would be better equipped to do this work? The local councillor who, in the main, is a part dme councillor running his own business or working, or people of the calibre of those I have mentioned who understand what is required of them?  Senator Greenwood  would say that we should give this job to local councillors. Did you ever hear anything so absurd in all your born days? It is of no use saying that we do not know these things. I repeat that they are in Hansard. 
I now turn to members of the Townsville Welfare Council and the organisations which they represent. They are:  Mr P.  Doughtry, Marriage Counselling Centre;  Mrs J.  Innes-Reid, Townsville General Hospital and the City Council- the City Council has been invited to attend;  Dr I.  Atkinson, Townsville General Hospital and the City Council;  Mrs M.  Campbell, Senior Citizens Welfare Association;  Mr B.  Leakey, St. Vincent de Paul Society;  Mrs A.  Butler, student counsellor; Miss M. Gindhart, St Raphael's College, James Cook University;  Mr M.  Reynolds, Specific Learning Difficulties Association;  Mr A.  Spance, Crippled Childrens Society; Miss G. Gorman, Department of Social Security; Miss D. Wilson, Community Health Services;  Dr J.  Mayo, Department of Economics, James Cook University; and  Major J.  Patterson, Community Services Organisation Section of the Army. 
Do any of those persons sound as if they are Communists, trying to weave their way into all the organisations which are set up to the advantage of people of Australia? I ask: Where is the Communist in there?  Senator Greenwood  is the one who raises the Communist bogey all the way. Let him now say which of those people are Communists. If those representatives were to come from the trade union movement, that is the first thing he would say. On behalf of my colleagues in the trade union movement I express my keen disappointment that  Senator Greenwood  and others on the opposite side of the chamber have attempted to smear this legislation. They know that it is to the advantage of the people of Australia. They know the calibre of the people who have been asked to work on these regional councils. But that does not satisfy the honourable senators. Because the Australian Government has had sufficient initiative to do something of this nature they condemn the Government on that ground alone. The Honourable senators should be positively ashamed of themselves for ever suggesting that the people whose names I have read out tonight and who are acting in an honorary capacity should be the subject of any scrutiny by honourable senators opposite or by people like them. 
I have great sympathy for what  Senator Lawrie  has said tonight. I think it is appalling that anywhere in Australia one should have to contemplate waiting until the year 2000 before one can have some continuous service. I am also disturbed by the fact that people cannot have telephones installed in their homes, and in some cases in their businesses, as expeditiously as they would like. But I remind the Senate that this situation is not peculiar to the last 2 years. It has been going on for as long as I can remember. In fact I remember  Senator Lawrie  quite rightly raising this matter when his own Party was in power. He spoke for at least a quarter of an hour on the Estimates and listed the number of people in Queensland who could not get a telephone installed in their homes. 
It is all very well to say that this should be done, but if it should be done today why should it not have been done in the last 23 years? After all is said and done, since the Australian Labor Party has been in Government we have on all occasions been told that inflation is the whole problem in Australian and no unnecessary expenses should be incurred. So whilst I have the utmost sympathy for the views expressed by  Senator Lawrie,  I suggest that not all the ills have come about in the last 2 years. There was plenty of opportunity prior to the Australian Labor Party taking office for the Post Office to remedy what  Senator Lawrie  now says are defects. I sympathise with him but I ask all concerned to recall that this situation has been going on for many years.  Senator Lawrie  himself has complained bitterly at Estimates Committees when I have been in attendance about the lack of communication for the people of Australia, particularly those in Queensland, who want telephones installed. I remind honourable senators that this situation has not come about just in the last 2 years. 
As opponents of the Australian Government are peddling stories in Queensland that the Premier of Queensland, the Honourable Joh Bjelke-Petersen, requested the Prime Minister in March this year to make funds available to combat locust plagues then threatening Queensland, will the Minister for Agriculture indicate whether such statements have any basis in fact whatsoever? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration: Is it a fact that more approvals have been announced under the regional employment development scheme? Has the State of Queensland benefited from the latest announcement? 
I oppose the amendment moved by  Senator Rae.  Of course, if he wants to interject and make rude comments I suppose he is entitled to do that. Tonight he tried to convince people about the terrible things on the lawns of Parliament House. But he did not tell the Senate that he was over there talking to those people one day. It amazes me that  Senator Rae  has the temerity to talk to us about the terrible people on the lawns of Parliament House. 
-Senator Rae was talking to those people on the lawns in front of Parliament House when he should have been at an Estimates Committee meeting. So  Senator Rae  should not play that game with me. It is amazing how  Senator Rae,  in support of his arguments, referred to an editorial in the 'Courier Mail'. Is it not amazing that he did not refer to other sections of the editorial? I will refer to the editorial of 25 October 1974, which is headed 'A time for a change', which stated: 
The Aboriginal and Islander Affairs Councils have acted wisely, and certainly not before time, in recommending changes to the State 's Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders Acts. 
The changes sought are a good deal less than sweeping, but they do cover some of the areas which understandably have brought charges of undue control over Aborigines. 
The Premier  (Mr Bjelke-Petersen)  is committed to make any changes to the controversial Acts sought by the councils. The alterations decided upon this week by a conference of Aboriginal and islander leaders must be put through without delay. 
I ask honourable senators to note the date of that editorial- 25 October. Further on it states: 
The recommendations want it made clear that Aborigines and islanders have complete freedom to manage their own property. So they should have. 
There are more comments but I will not read them to honourable senators unless I am challenged to do so. It is amazing that everything is well in Queensland with the Aborigines. The Premier of Queensland is said to have been the salvation of the Aboriginal population, yet on 25 October the anti-Labor 'Courier Mail' was pressing the Queensland Government to introduce drastic amendments to the Act in the interests of Aborigines. What did the 'Courier Mail' say? It said that the Aboriginals must be given greater authority over their own property. What does the Minister want to do in this matter concerning which he is now being criticised? 
I wish now to relate my remarks to Estimates Committee G, of which  Senator Rae, Senator Bonner  and  Senator Sheil  were members. What came out of those discussions in relation to this matter? The Minister said that he was going to pass a sum of money over to the Aboriginal councils.  Mr O  'Rourke of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs was asked where the Aboriginal housing societies were located.  Mr O  'Rourke said: 
Mount lsa, Cloncurry, Red Lynch. 
The  Chairman  then interrupted and said:  One in each of these places? 

 Mr O 'Rourke said: 
Yes. Black Community Centre is in Townsville. 
That gives us four to start with. Later on, pressed as to where the remainder of these councils were by  Senator Bonner- Senator Bonner  did not refer to this this evening-  Mr O  'Rourke said that they were at: 
Yumba  Meta, Jupiter, Mossman. Burdel Community Cooperative at Ayr, Kuranda,  Yarrabu,  Innisfail, Stradbroke Island, Mareeba, Hughenden, Cardwell, Mackay, Bowen, Ingham, Mount Garnet, Aurukun, Mossman, Torres Strait Co-operative, Erub Co-operative, Moa Island, Horn Island, Prince of Wales Island,  Nanyetta  and Bundaberg. 
Bear in mind what  Senator Bonner  himself said should be done- more authority should be given to the Aboriginals to run their own affairs. What precisely, is the Minister doing in this legislation? Yet he is being criticised for it by some pious motion that even if it were carried would not matter one iota - 
-I will not vote for it because it is a futile exercise in political jiggery. The honourable senator knows that is true. If  Senator Withers  had seen the smile on  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's face when he was talking about the amendment he would have formed the same opinion- the opinion that we know to be true. 
I say, with respect, that the members of the Opposition, particularly the Opposition members on Estimates Committee G-  Senator Rae, Senator Bonner  and  Senator Sheil-  had every opportunity to press for information in relation to this matter we are debating this evening. But not one of those honourable senators pressed their point in relation to this matter. I refer honourable senators to page 395 of the Hansard report of the meeting of Estimates Committee G which was held on 22 October 1974.  Senator Bonner  asked a question about an Aboriginal who was supposed to be receiving money for a hostel in Queensland.  Senator Bonner  was asked to name the person so that the matter could be investigated. He was told that if he did not want to do that he could see the officers of the Department afterwards, give them the name, they would investigate the matter and take it to its conclusion. Whether he has done that I do not know. 
Now I come to  Senator Sheil.  I ask honourable senators to bear in mind that  Senator Rae,  who is the Opposition spokesman on Aboriginal affairs, did not ask one question about this matter in the hearings of the Estimates Committee.  Senator Sheil,  to his credit, did ask a question about it. I will read what  Senator Sheil  said because it is important that honourable senators should know what he said. It is also important to know the Minister's reply. It is important to know that  Senator Sheil  then said: 'Well, I am satisfied about that now. ' Yet he has the audacity to stand up here tonight and criticise what this Government and this Minister in particular are doing. At page 395 of the Hansard report of Estimates Committee G  Senator Sheil  is reported to have said - 

 - Senator Rae did not ask a question about this matter. He has a great interest in these matters!  Senator Sheil  said: 
In the Treasurer's Budget Speech -  (Quorum formed.) I was about to relate to the Senate what was stated in the hearings of Estimates Committee G. I said that  Senator Rae  had no interest in Aborigines on that occasion but that  Senator Sheil  did, and I give him great credit for it. This is what  Senator Sheil  said: 
In the Treasurer's Budget Speech, he budgeted for $30Vim in grants to Queensland, and that would have been about one-third of the total allocation which was opposite. But you,  Mr Minister,  in your States Grants Aboriginal Assistance Act, reduced that $ 1 3 V% m to $10 1/3m.  That is a drop of something over $3m. Talking about the housing in Queensland, most of that allocation you maintain is going to be spent through Aboriginal groups in Queensland primarily for housing, and yet in the Treasurer's speech he said that the housing allocation last financial year was underspent by $9m. 
Some words were spoken by  Senator Cavanagh  and then by the  Chairman, Senator Keeffe.  Then the Minister said- and this bears out precisely what  Senator Hall  has said tonight: 
The difference between the $13m and the $10m, which would normally have gone to the Queensland Housing Commission will now go to Queensland Aboriginal housing organisations. 
That is precisely what  Senator Bonner  said should be done. The Minister continued: 
So there will be no reduction in the houses in Queensland for the Aboriginal people, but there will be more funding through the housing organisations than through a Government that we cannot have a conversation with. 
The  Chairman  made some comment, then  Senator Sheil  said: 
It is still in the bank accounts, as I understand it. 
The  Chairman  said:  lt is still in bank accounts and various areas allocated to various districts and so on. 

 Senator Cavanagh said: 
With the Queensland Government? 
The  Chairman  said: 
Yes. 
That was the end of the conversation. Yet we came in here this afternoon to hear  Senator Rae,  who never asked the Minister or the officials of the Department one question about this matter, try with all the sanctity in the world to condemn the Minister for, in effect, trying to by-pass the Aborigines in Queensland in relation to their financial entitlements. 
No, not in the slightest, Honourable senators opposite do not tell all the story. It is an amazing thing that they denigrate the Australian Government for what it has done for Aborigines. Later in the hearings of Estimates Committee G, when again dealing with Aborigines,  Senator Cavanagh  said: 
I would like to say, to clear myself on a statement that I made earlier, 1 did speak to  Mr Perkins  at Tullamarine Airport last night and did discuss the Estimates Committee today. 
Yes, entirely; of course I would. He does not go down and curry favour with the Press as  Senator Rae  does.  Mr Perkins  was paraded tonight as being downtrodden by the Department. In the hearings of Estimates Committee G  Mr Perkins  said: 
When you said the Estimates Committee I was under the impression you were meaning the Public Accounts Committee. At that time I was on my way back from Swan Hill where I had attended a conference. ... I was never informed that it was an Estimates Committee: so my impression was that you were talking about the Public Accounts Committee. 

 Senator Cavanagh had the audacity to say to him: 
I mentioned the Estimates Committee. 

 Mr Perkins said:  Yes, you did. 
Yet it is suggested tonight that  Mr Perkins  knew nothing at all about it. Let us try to nail something else that was said tonight, because  Senator Rae  adopts some very low attitudes when he comes into the chamber. 
-Earlier tonight we heard  Senator Bonner  say that he met  Mr Perkins  outside and asked: 'Why do you not come to the Estimates Committee meeting?', or words to that effect.  Mr Perkins,  when giving evidence on oath, is reported at page 405 of the Hansard report of Estimates Committee G of 22 October as saying: 
I happened to come along because I had dinner tonight at Parliament House with friends who invited me. I was not invited by anyone to be present here. 
Yet tonight we heard one honourable senator opposite say that he met  Mr Perkins  outside and invited him to come to the meeting.  Mr Perkins  continued: 
I was under the impression that it was a  Public  Accounts Committee meeting; that is why I made the suggestion I had nothing to contribute. 
Yet 2 minutes later, in the same document, he is reported to have admitted that the Minister, being disgusted with him, told him that it was an Estimates Committee meeting, and he agreed that the Minister had said that to him. Where do we go when people try to bolster up their case with such outrageous statements about what happens at Estimates Committee hearings? We heard earlier that Estimates committees were the saviours of the nation, and that they must continue. Yet  Senator Rae,  the 'alleged' spokesman for the Opposition on Aboriginal affairs, did not ask one question about what is now regarded as a very important issue. How can  Senator Rae  say such a thing as that and sleep with his conscience? 
On that issue? 

 - Senator Rae has not asked one question on that issue and he knows it. He is condemning himself out of his own mouth. I refer to Senate Hansard of 12 November 1974, at page 2287, which records a question asked by  Senator Georges  of  Senator Wheeldon  in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. The Minister for Social Security in the answer he provided to  Senator George's  question referred to the fact that the Queensland Government requires private hospitals to meet fire safety specifications. He went on to say 
The names of the approved private hospitals which currently have adverse fire reports and the principals or proprietors of these hospitals are . . . Fermoy Auchenflower . . . 
The Minister stated that the owner was  Dr G.  Sheil. I shall read further from the answer and refer to some of the fire reports from the Fire Brigade, an independent authority in Brisbane. The Fire Brigade referred to Fermoy and gave the dates of fire reports as being 17 September 1971, 19 November 1973 and 10 December 1973. There are extracts from the fire report of 10 December 1973. The report states: 
Attention is drawn to previous report 17 September 1971 especially to comments re poor design- materials of constructionhigh fire risk and recommendation that building be replaced with first resistant structure having a 4-hour fire resistant rating. 
Fermoy Hospital which is owned by  Senator Sheil.  The report continues: 
Since the latest fire report the proprietor has not indicated his intentions regarding the implementation of these recommendations. 
That report defines the public risks in a private hospital which is owned by  Dr G.  Sheil. I was challenged - 
Yes, of course he has. I was challenged to read that report. I did not want to raise it but I was challenged to do so. I accepted the challenge with a great deal of enthusiasm because I have the utmost respect for the Fire Brigade in Brisbane. I have no respect for the Queensland Government which has not enforced the report of the Fire Brigade in Brisbane. The Queensland Government has not done so and honourable senators are at liberty to place their own construction on that. 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Media. Has a national television service yet been provided for the people of the Winton area of Queensland? Since December 1972 has there been an appreciable movement in the provision of television services for country people throughout Australia? 
-Has the Minister for Agriculture seen reports in the Queensland Press stating that the Country Party leader,  Mr Anthony,  disagreed with  Mr Bjelke-Petersen's  attitude that Queensland should go it alone in seeking beef markets overseas? Did the reports further state that if the Country Party were in government  Mr Anthony  would be upset if Queensland sought markets independently of the Australian Government? Where does the Minister stand on this issue- with  Mr Anthony  or with the Queensland Premier? 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Media and it follows a question asked earlier by  Senator Webster.  Is  Mr Neary,  a member of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, the same gentleman who organises the Queensland Command Performance each year, the substantial profits from which are for the benefit of charitable organisations in Queensland? Does  Mr Neary  give his services to this function voluntarily and without charge? Do the majority of Queenslanders who care for the welfare of charitable organisations regard  Mr Neary  as a very fine gentleman? 
Having had my suspicions verified by the explanation, I intend to oppose the amendment. I do not think it will make much difference but I think that the Committee would be wise if it withdrew its amendment, even at this late stage. If it finds on some subsequent occasion that it should proceed with what it believes then such a proposal could be introduced as an amendment to the legislation. At this point I oppose the amendment. 
-Do I correctly understand the intention of the amendment to be that, if there is no dissolution, proceedings can take place on the distribution of assets? Is that the intention? It appears that that is intended from what  Senator Missen  said. If so I think it is right outside the scope of the legislation. 
This is a cognate debate on 3 Bills which concern the State of Queensland. I do not wish to appear to be parochial in any shape or form, but I just make my contribution to the debate and say that Queenslanders generally will welcome the support that is being given to this legislation. I speak particularly of the Burdekin River scheme. It has been a sore point with Queenslanders for many years that nothing has ever been done to dam the Burdekin River. I suppose that one could go back in history over the past 30 years and revive the story of the Burdekin River dam. I am pleased to say that I am part of a Government which, in co-operation with other governments and other authorities, is now to tackle this important task. I know that my colleagues on the other side of the chamber would agree with me when I say that the Burdekin River dam has been a long-standing issue in Queensland. Now we are tackling the matter and I believe that it will be to the advantage of all concerned. I have no wish to engender any heat in this debate, but if I heard  Senator Lawrie  correctly he said that it was a matter of too little too late. All I can say is: Thank goodness we have now reached the point where we are doing something about it. 
If I have misinterpreted the remarks of  Senator Lawrie,  I apologise. If his remarks related to Bundaberg, let me say again that this has been an issue with the Australian Government for many years. We have promised the money to finish this dam, and that promise will be honoured. An amount of $4m is being provided to continue the construction of the Monduran Dam, and this project will be accomplished. I do not wish to speak at length on these Bills. I close on that point. I am pleased that the Opposition has recognised the importance of this legislation to the State of Queensland and has decided to give the legislation a speedy passage. 
Can the Minister representing the Special Minister of State indicate when local authorities throughout Australia will receive the payments of $56,345,000 that were granted as a result of the recommendations of the first report of the Grants Commission? 
Will the Special Minister of State remind the recipients of this substantial allocation of funds that it was as a result of the initiatives taken by the Australian Government that the Grants Commission was requested to recommend the finance that should be allocated? 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Media. I ask: Does the Minister have any information about access radio, which is the name given to that field of broadcasting which involves private organisations and individuals wishing to express an idea or to encourage participation in different activities? Is it true that we can expect the first broadcasts in this revolutionary form of free programming very shortly? 
-I bring up the fourth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
I do not think any honourable senator on this side of the chamber intended to enter into this debate until we heard the final remarks of  Senator Greenwood.  If I may say so, I regard his remarks as being fairly insulting to a wonderful set of people in the Public Service. I cast my mind back to the time when I was an apprentice at the Queensland Government Printing Office. I took an oath of allegiance, but that did not impress me anywhere near as much as my overseer telling me of my responsibilities as a tradesman to keep secret the work done by the Government Printing Office. That made a far greater impression on me than any oath of allegiance I may have taken. 
It may be of interest to the Senate to know that the fact that some people at the Government Printing Office took the oath of allegiance did not stop them from accepting an offer of money to leak to certain people some examination papers. But these people were not charged in relation to any oath of allegiance. An inquiry was held into the incident. The people on the job knew who was responsible for leaking the information. They were the ones who took action on behalf of the Government and on behalf of their own honour. They saw to it that the 2 people concerned gave notice and left the employ of the Government Printing Office. Honourable senators opposite should not think that just because someone takes an oath of allegiance they are going to be a purist of the best nature. The fact is that that person's responsibilities and his own conscience will be the guide. 
It is interesting to note that the oath of allegiance was required of employees in the Public Service of Queensland but now it is not required. Are honourable senators opposite going to suggest to me that the public servants of Queensland are inferior people to those who took the oath of allegiance? Are honourable senators opposite going to suggest that the 3 public servants sitting on my left would be inferior because they did not take an oath of allegiance? I say that having joined the Public Service, they have a conscience. They know they have a responsibility to the nation. They are aware of their responsibilities. They are aware of them when they commence their duties. Consequently, I believe that should be the only test- their conscience- of their responsibilities to the nation. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Greenwood's amendment)  be added. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction. Because of his extensive knowledge of the building industry and the conditions under which many Australians live in the tropical regions of Australia because of the climate in those regions, can the Minister advise whether the Government has in train any schemes which could result in more appropriate housing, accommodation and workshops being provided for people living and working in the north? 
Strange to say,  Mr Deputy President,  I also direct a question to you. Has  Senator Greenwood,  the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party of Australia in the Senate, yet made a public statement to the effect that 'its' - the Government's-corruption extends to the officers for whom it is responsible'? If  Senator Greenwood  has not yet made public the allegation he made in the Senate last night will you ask him to indicate when he is prepared to do so and thereby honour the undertaking he gave last night? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! I have no information on the subject on which the honourable senator seeks information. I would say that criticism in the Senate by any member of the Senate of senior public servants is to be deprecated and that the wording used in this regard should be of a more moderate nature. That is evidently the feeling on both sides of the chamber, as was indicated this morning and last night. However, I have no information regarding the question which the honourable senator has asked of me. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  With  Senator Greenwood's  indulgence I would rather take his request for leave at the end of question time but if the Senate wishes to grant him leave at the moment I shall adopt that course. As  Senator Greenwood  indicates that he does not seek leave at this moment I call  Senator Jessop. 
I urge the Committee to accept the proposals outlined in clause 38 (b) of the Bill. What is suggested by the Opposition has resulted from nothing more or less than pressures from the Pharmacy Guild of Australia, spearheaded in the Senate by one of the Opposition senators who owns a pharmacy. This is entirely wrong. The friendly society pharmacies do and have done over the many years, and will continue to do over the many years, a wonderful job of work . for the people in the area in which they operate. 
Hello, the ignorant Chairman of Committees is at it again. 
The reason that the Pharmacy Guild is able to put pressure on the Opposition to move in this direction is because the friendly societies do not belong to the Guild. Let us take the situation of a pharmacy operating in an area in which a friendly society is operating. After the Pharmacy Guild chemist closes a person who wants a prescription filled has to go to an all-night chemist which may be located some miles away. But the friendly societies, as a general proposition, are always available for the people. If it is the intention of the Opposition to restrict the work of the friendly societies in this direction then it is going to do something which is not in the interests of the people. I go a step further and say that the friendly societies give rebates to people who have their prescriptions made up with them. Chemists, of course, do not like that. 
Opposition senators are the people who are pledged to support competition, but when competition is in the interests of someone who is not a member of the Pharmacy Guild the pressures of the Pharmacy Guild prevail. The Opposition proposes a retrograde step, and the people of Australia will be the ones who will suffer if this proposition is carried. I have been in this chamber only about 7 years, but I have never seen such sloppy arrangements as are being presented by the Opposition tonight. At one time today it proposed to refuse to give the Bill a second reading. That attitude changed. Subsequently it proposed to oppose all of the clauses in the Bill. Of course, that attitude changed. Now we are presented with a series of amendments. The other day honourable senators opposite were chiding the Government with not being competent to run the affairs of government. I ask: What is the situation in regard to this Bill? We now have amendments coming in, whereas earlier we were told that there would be no amendments moved to the Bill whatsoever. I ask the Senate to carry clause 38 in its entirety. If it fails to do that it will be playing into the hands of the Pharmacy Guild and it will be taking action which will be against the interests of many people in Australia. 
I ask my question of the Minister for the Media. One of the initiatives of his Department is the 'Australian Government Digest'. Is it a fact that this reference work is fast gaining a fine reputation in literary circles? Does the Minister have any plans for producing this Digest' more frequently in the future? 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Media. Does Film Australia come within his area of responsibility? Does Film Australia produce documentary and information films which are sold at home and abroad? Can the Minister advise whether there is an audience for these productions overseas? 
I present  the fifth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
-Will the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation inform the Senate of the procedures initiated by him and his officers to invite compensation claims from the people in Darwin who were injured or lost possessions as a result of the tragedy of cyclone Tracy? 
-I second the amendment moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. I see the situation slightly differently from the way he does. Nevertheless I believe that his objections are valid. I see the situation another way. Someone may wish to ask a question of a  chairman  of a committee and the Senate may give leave for the question to be asked, but then the  chairman  of the commitee may be in possession of facts which influence him not to answer the question. The  chairman  would be placed in an invidious position in as much as the Senate had said in effect that the  chairman  could be asked questions. The  chairman  could be in possession of facts but he may not be able to answer the question. He would then be placed in an embarrassing situation for the reasons that have been outlined. I believe the amendment moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson is quite appropriate. 

 - Mr Chairman, I ask you, or the Minister, whether the Standing Orders Committee considered any other aspects of the Standing Orders. 
I know there is another report. Did the Committee consider only what is contained in the 2 reports? I have always considered that standing order 28 1 was wrong in its application, and in saying that I am not being critical of the  President  or yourself. I have been a member of other organisations and I have always believed that the motion, that the question be now put, always had to be moved by someone who had not spoken in the debate. The procedure in the Senate is entirely different. I was appalled when I first came here to hear somebody say some very unkind things about the Opposition or the Government, as the case may be, and then with 2 minutes to go move that the question be put. I think it is entirely wrong because it gives nobody an opportunity to answer what has been said. I am fortified in that belief by reason of the fact that when there was a joint meeting of the 2 Houses that point was made very clear. No one who had spoken in a debate was permitted to move 'That the question be now put'. It is unfair to this extent - 
Of course it is hit and run. I repeat: In all the organisations with which I have been associated over the years I have not seen it happen yet. I think it is entirely wrong. I was wondering whether the Standing Orders Committee had considered that aspect. Would it be competent for me to move, either now or after we have considered the third report, that the Standing Orders Committee give consideration to this aspect? 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Webster)Perhaps  I should have called you to order earlier in your remarks to the Committee. Basically we are dealing with 2 reports from the Standing Orders Committee. Whilst I think it is fair for you to mention one standing order on which you have some comment, I think it would be as well if we considered the 2 reports of the Standing Orders Committee. We are about to commence consideration of the second report which is, in fact, the third report for the 56th session. If your question was whether the Standing Orders Committee had dealt with any other matters, I can assure you that it has dealt at length with a number of standing orders and has been unable to come to finality on many of them. I think your comment, when read in Hansard, will prove a prompting point for the Committee. I think the Manager of Government Business should proceed to the third report, and we will deal with that matter. The comment which you have made can be taken into account by the Standing Orders Committee. 
-I take it that I will have an opportunity to move a motion after consideration of the third report. 
I find it a little difficult to be clear in my mind on the amount of time which will be saved by this procedure. After all is said and done, on how many occasions do senators ask that the answers to questions on notice be read? I would suggest that it is most infrequently. The time saved would be negligible. I believe that a senator has the undisputed right, for any reason at all, political or otherwise, to read the question which he has put on notice and to have the answer read, and I do not think that right should be interfered with. This morning we had a series of questions on notice answered. Without counting them, there were about 25. Only one senator asked that the answer be read. I think I am interpreting correctly the recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee. I believe that a senator should have the right to ask his question on notice and to have the answer read by the responsible Minister. 
It does not matter whether it is Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday. That is not the point.I believe that a senator has the undisputed right to ask a question which he has put on notice. I do not look at the politics of it. I look at the fact that he may want to ask the question for a particular reason. He should not have to disclose the reason. He should not be denied the right to ask the question. They are my views on the matter. I oppose the proposition. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales) (8.29)- I do not necessarily disagree with the totality of the intention of item 1, but I am a little concerned about certain aspects of it. Firstly, it purports to delete standing order 102 and to insert in its place another standing order which does not pick up some of the ingredients of the original standing order 102.I ask the Manager of Government Business in the Senate  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  to enlighten me and any other member of the Committee of the Whole who may have some doubts about the matter. The side note to standing order 102 states: 
Questions asked for absent  Senator. 
The standing order itself states: 
A  Senator, on  being requested by the  Senator who  has given Notice, may ask the Question of which Notice has been given. 
That contains an implication that is not found in the proposed new standing order 102. 
The reply to a Question on notice shall be given by delivering the same to the  Clerk.  A copy thereof shall be supplied to the  Senator who  has asked the Question, and such Question and reply shall be printed in Hansard. 
The question of the time of the tabling of the question emerges. In the time I have been in the 
Senate it has frequently happened that a question has been asked without notice and the Minister in his reply, because there are ingredients in the question which it is apparent to everybody will call for information from his departmental advisers, has said: 'I suggest to the honourable senator that he put the question on notice'. In these circumstances, the honourable senator who asked the question has had to write it out. He may also have 3 other questions that he wants answered without notice before he writes out the question that has to be placed on notice. When does the  Clerk  put the question without notice on the notice paper? What is the order? Does he put it on when the Minister says: 'I suggest that it be put on notice'? Does he put it on notice then, and does the senator by response say: 'Yes,I will do that'? On the other hand, does he wait until it is scribbled out, rechecked, corrected and altered sometimes before it goes on the notice paper? These are little things, but sometimes they arise. 
I agree that a few matters need to be cleared up, particularly as to the old standing order 102. I think it is fair to say that in the world in which we are living parliamentary practice in Australia has become more vigorous and more active than it was when the Standing Orders were written. We cannot have a situation in which all questions on notice are read and the replies are then given. During the life of this Government in the last 2 years reforms have been carried out, by common consent rather than by alterations of the Standing Orders, which have tended to shortcut the delay, but we always observed the reservation that if a senator wanted the answer to his question read he should be able to exercise his right to have that done. That seems to me to have worked reasonably well. It may well be that in the light of delays in receiving answers it is sometimes a bit absurd for a Minister to read out an answer to a question which has been put on notice many months before. On balance, I agree with the recommendation, but I would like to hear the Minister on the ingredient which is proposed to be removed from the old standing order 102. 
During the debate relating to the Standing Orders I raised a question which I believe the Standing Orders Committee should examine to see whether some unanimity of thought can be reached on my proposal. I have been astounded to see in this chamber an honourable senator, after addressing himself to a matter and before resuming his place to give an honourable senator on the other side an opportunity to reply, moving that the question be now put. The  President, Chairman  or whoever may be occupying the Chair has no alternative but to put that question. I think that is entirely wrong and contrary to everything that I have known as a reasonable standard of debate. I therefore propose to move that the Standing Orders Committee be requested to examine standing order 281 which relates to the motion that the question be now put. I suggest that standing order 281 should read, in effect, that the motion that the question be now put may be moved only by an honourable senator who has not spoken on the question before the Chair. Therefore I move: 
That standing order 281 be referred to the Standing Orders Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Media. Have there been Press reports that the new Government policy on Australian content in television programs will decrease the quality of Australian made shows? Do these reports claim quality will result because the Government will require stations to increase immediately their level of Australian programming to 75 per cent first release drama? Will the Minister indicate to the Senate whether the new policy is a possible threat to quality of programming, as mentioned in these reports? 
-I rise today and begin by saying: What a tragedy we see in the ranks of the Liberal Party today. That once great party led by  Sir Robert  Menzies now gets down in the depths of the gutter to clap its hands because there is unemployment in Australia today. Make no mistake about it. The only reason that this motion has been introduced today is an endeavour to capitalise on the unemployment in Australia. The Opposition makes not one bit of effort to justify what is happening in Australia, compared with what is happening in countries overseas. We have heard  Senator Greenwood  talk about executive people in Victoria who are unemployed. How ironic it is that  Senator Greenwood  above all else should refer to executive people being unemployed. Have a look at the Liberal Party. Have a look at the number of honourable senators opposite who have 2 jobs, yet they complain about executives being out of work. On the list of speakers for today there are 6 senators who desire to enter this debate on behalf of the Opposition. Five of those six have private businesses. 
Lucrative private businesses- doctors, lawyers, farmers, whathaveyou. Yet they talk about double standards and they cry about people being out of work when they are the ones who are holding some of those executives out of work. They also complain about school leavers. What have they done to try to help educate people to become doctors? In Queensland the situation is that lads are not allowed into the medical profession. What is being done? People are going overseas to recruit doctors and yet lads in Australia will not be given the opportunity to become doctors. Honourable senators opposite put up this pious, stupid motion which is aimed not at assisting the unemployed but at trying to make political capital. If there were 100 000 unemployed in Australia honourable senators opposite would welcome that because they would be able to get political capital out of it. 

 Senator Greenwood spoke of school leavers. Is it not the case that when honourable senators opposite were in government lads were unable to get jobs when they left school? Of course it was. I have seen Ministers in this place get up and say that lads should go back to school for another year because the position might be better then. Yet honourable senators have the temerity to come in here and say that school leavers are unable to get employment, suggesting that this is unusual. I repeat that I have seen Ministers get up in this place and say to the lads: 'Go back to school for another year because there are no employment opportunities for you at this stage.' Honourable senators opposite have referred to the fact that there are not sufficient tradesmen. I think  Senator Greenwood  referred to that fact. I can remember the times, when the Opposition parties were in power, when employers would not put on apprentices. They had to be cajoled. They had to be threatened. Governments had to threaten they would impose apprenticeships on employers if they did not voluntarily employ them, ls there not a lack of confidence when employers will not put on apprentices? What did the Labor Government do? We saw that that situation could arise. We supplemented the wages of apprentices to encourage employers to take on their full quota of apprentices, and not only their full quota' but more than their quota. Yet honourable senators opposite criticise the Government for what it has done. They criticise the Government knowing full well that the unemployment situation exists overseas in comparable countries. 
Honourable senators opposite do not tell the people of Australia that in comparable countries the unemployment figure is infinitely worse. I remind the people that the unemployment figure in Germany is 5 per cent, in Belgium 5.4 per cent, in Denmark 9.2 per cent, in France 5.3 per cent, in Italy 6.3 per cent, in Ireland 8 per cent and in the United States of America 8.2 per cent.  Mr Meany  has said that that figure will subsequently rise to 10 per cent. Why are honourable senators opposite not honest about these things? Why are they not fair? They are the ones who always parade the virtues of the United States of America. Yet here we have an unemployment figure rising to 10 per cent. But honourable senators opposite do not come out and tell the people of Australia that. They want to push that under the carpet. 
Let me tell the Senate of another deceitful attitude which honourable senators opposite have adopted today. In the past they have always referred to the seasonally adjusted unemployment figure. They do not do that today. Why is that? It is because it is not in their interests to do so. They were deceitful not to do so because the seasonally adjusted unemployment figures are 3.06 per cent or 240 000. But they play that figure down, because it looks better to say 320 000-odd. Consequently I charge honourable senators opposite with deceit on that issue. I charge them with deceit because they did not attempt to justify any of their arguments in relation to what happened overseas with comparable unemployment figures. I charge them with deceit because they shed crocodile tears about executives who are out of work. Yet nearly every member of the Liberal Party is holding down 2 jobs. 
-That is up to them. I do not know whether they are using government warrants. I say they are deceitful when they come into this chamber and gleefully say that there is unemployment. All they are trying to do is to play on the feelings of the unemployed. Let us look at some of the statements in the matter of urgency. It states that there is a destruction of business confidence and initiative. What have we done to provide initiative for business? The Senate knows quite well what had been done in the various fields of endeavour. The Government has a proud record in that direction. But then honourable senators opposite say that we have destroyed the confidence and the initiative of private industry and they criticise us for spending money in the Government field. Where would they suggest we curtail that expenditure? Do they suggest that we should restrict money which has been allocated to education? The Opposition parties have the poorest record in the field of education and honourable senators know it. They have been criticised in their own councils for the lack of interest in education. We have poured money into education because the people of Australia demanded a better system of education throughout Australia. 
Honourable senators opposite complain about strikes. Let us look at the situation. The Opposition parties have banded together and said: We will not allow amalgamation of unions'. Let us look at the unions which have amalgamated. I ask honourable members to show me where their strikes have been more frequent than had previously been the case. I challenge them to do so. I speak with some authority when I speak of boilermakers and people like that. I speak with authority when I speak of printers where there have been amalgamations. There has not been a dispute of any magnitude in the printing industry since amalgamation. Honourable senators opposite have banded together and said that there should be no amalgamation of unions. They are frightened of them.  Senator Greenwood  complained about workers getting 4 weeks annual leave. Have honourable senators ever heard of anything more distasteful than a statement of that nature? 
Does the honourable senator suggest that there should not be 4 weeks annual leave? Is she saying that workers should not have 4 weeks annual leave? I say that they should have 4 weeks annual leave. The LiberalCountry Party governments in the States have done that very thing. They have gone along to the courts and not opposed the 4 weeks annual leave. So it is no good complaining. Over the years honourable senators have said that as industry advances and as skills advance workers are entitled to more leisure. But the minute the courts, governments or employers give the workers extra leisure honourable senators in their characteristic way immediately denounce the workers. They cannot have it both ways. 
Let us look at what some State governments have done. We have tried to help local authorities. What has happened? Immediately we try to help local authorities by giving them money directly to spend in their areas the Victorian Liberal Government, the Country Party Liberal Government in Queensland and, I think I am correct, the Western Australian Liberal Government challenge in the courts the right of the Federal Government to give that money to help the unemployed. I saw a situation the other day in Queensland where the Government allocated $4m to local authorities. The local authorities met, the first time that I can recall their getting together, and agreed on how this money would be split up between them. There was no dissension whatsoever. They agreed on how it should be distributed. Yet we see the Queensland Government criticising the fact that this money did not go through their channels. Honourable senators opposite know that to be true. 
Perhaps the worst statement of all was that the Government was dishonest, and that was levelled at us by none other than  Senator Greenwood.  Goodness me! Fancy him, above all others, questioning the integrity of this Government when he, with other Liberals, proudly  announced that they were going into Vietnam, that they were going to send our kids into Viet- . nam, that they did not care whether or not our kids were killed, that they would spend money on this unwinnable, filthy war. They paraded the fact that they were going to do that. They saw glory in doing these things. It makes me sick to hear honourable senators on the other side accuse our Government of dishonesty and lacking in integrity when only a few short years ago his Government was sending good Australian youths over to Vietnam, not hoping that they would be killed but not giving a damn if they were killed. 
Who said that? 
You should be ashamed of yourself. I am not addressing  Senator Martin.  I am addressing her colleague because he was probably young enough to go there but did not have the guts. 
Is the Minister for the Media aware that one of the biggest events of the year for film producers and marketers- the Cannes film festival- takes place shortly? In the interests of local producers and artists, does the Government intend to take part in this event to assist the promotion of our films? 
Has the Minister for the Media been made aware of the statement by the  President  of the Canberra branch of the Australia Party in which he unfairly levelled criticism against the Government for the increased charges for Hansard? Will the Minister explain to the Senate that the increased charges were made as a result of a recommendation from the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Publications, the  chairman  of which, when the recommendation was made, was a member of the Liberal Party? Would it be reasonably accurate to indicate that the cost to the Australian government for the printing, binding and distribution of Hansard is approximately $600,000 a year? 
As this is covered the subsequent amendment, quite frankly  I  cannot see that this proposed change of wording is consequential. The definition of member is: 
Member' means a member of the Commission, and includes an Acting General Manager; 
If we take out the word 'member' in the clause and substitute the word 'officer', we have no definition whatsover of the word 'officer'. I cannot see that it is a consequential alteration. I think that it is a fairly substantial alteration in view of the fact that there is no definition of the word officer'. 
-Is this amendment not more than consequential? If my interpretation of the amendment is correct the honourable senator wishes to delete clause 34 sub-clause (2) paragraph (a) which states that the Governor-General may terminate the appointment of the General Manager if the General Manager engages in paid employment outside the duties of his office without the approval of the Minister. Does the honourable senator wish to delete that paragraph? 
Amendment agreed to. 
 I think it is disgraceful that  Senator Greenwood  should approach this subject on the basis of what we may have done in Opposition. The fact remains that there is a national tragedy on our hands today and that the people of Darwin must have some remedy to overcome their difficulties. The Government does not wish to override city councils, legislative assemblies or parliaments. The Government has pledged itself to rebuild Darwin as speedily as possible. If  Senator Greenwood  read the Bill he would find numerous instances of protection by numerous committees for the people of Darwin. I reject entirely the suggestion by  Senator Greenwood  that this has been an attack on him. He started this business and he has now been told where he is wrong. I submit to you,  Mr Chairman,  and honourable senators, that this is an emergency, that the Government must have this power and that it can be relied upon that the powers will not be abused. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture. The Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  in a newspaper report in the columns of the Brisbane Courier-Mail' has claimed that currency revaluations by the Australian Government have caused an $800m loss to Australian farmers. 
Will the Minister detail to the Senate the facts of the situation, particularly for the benefit of the honourable senator who interjected? 
1 direct my question to the Minister for the Media. Is it a fact that television ratings are important to stations in order that thay may assess public trends from the information obtained? Is it proposed to conduct fewer television surveys in 1975? If so, what alternatives are visualised? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that of the 2 part-time members to be elected to the Australian Capital Territory Health Services Commission one will be a nursing employee elected by the nursing employees? Does this involvement of the nurses in the administration of the Commission meet with the approval of the Royal Australian Nursing Federation? 
Will the Minister for the Media give consideration to making use of the film medium to make Australians, particularly school children, better informed about Asia and Asian affairs? Does he have any plans for the future in the dissemination of knowledge of Asia and its people? 
-I bring up the report of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory on self-government and public finance in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask for leave to move a motion for the Senate to take note of the report. 
I support  Senator Drake-Brockman  's views. I have been concerned about aspects of this legislation. I have raised them with the previous Minister for Manufacturing Industry. I believe that as a result of the representations of  Senator DrakeBrockman, Senator Murphy  and myself we find ourselves in the position in which we are today. Like  Senator Drake-Brockman,  I hope that the Special Interdepartmental Committee on Assistance to Industry will soon give Cabinet some lead as to what should be done in relation to this legislation. I am not being political but what  Senator Wright  complained of occurred under legislation introduced by the Opposition Parties when in office. Bounty was paid for 'The Little Red Schoolbook'. Honourable senators will recall the controversy surrounding the publication of 'The Little Red Schoolbook'. I repeat that I do not raise this matter politically. 
As I understand the thoughts of the Opposition on this matter difficulties will arise because the Opposition says that if a State thinks that a book should be prohibited from publication in a State the bounty should not be paid. Again consider the classic example of the 'The Little Red Schoolbook'. To my knowledge, although I could be wrong, the Literature Board of Review in Queensland banned that book. That was the only State, I believe, which took that action. If  Senator Wright's  thoughts are correct, the bounty would not be paid because one State had said that publication of the book was illegal. I do not think that could happen under federal law. I respect what  Senator Wright  said in this direction. 
Previously I have expressed my view that this legislation should be examined by a joint committee or a Senate committee; I do not care which. I think all sides agree that the industry must be protected against the inroads of printing from overseas. We all share that point of view, but there are different ways of approaching the matter. In my view this is the wrong way to approach it. In effect the Australian taxpayers are paying money to people to keep printing in Australia. I think the situation should be the reverse and that we should be penalising people who send their printing outside Australia. We should make them pay. There may be some law against that, I do not know, but I believe it is worth investigating. I submit that that would be an ideal way, on a non-political basis, of improving this legislation. If an all-party committee were set up- I do not care whether it is a joint committee or a Senate committee- we could come up with something which would be infinitely better than what is before us today. 
Consider the situation of legal documents which under this legislation will not attract the bounty. What is going to happen? Those documents will be sent to Singapore or some other country. The object of the Bill is to stop work going outside Australia but in the case to which I have referred it will almost force a company to send its printing outside Australia. That is not the object of the legislation. There are many factors associated with this matter. Perhaps  Senator Wright  is 1 00 per cent correct in what he said but I believe you cannot determine that matter at this time. There are so many aspects to be determined, such as the legality of whether we have any right to stop work coming in from overseas and whether we have right to stop work going overseas from Australia. I do not know. The legal fraternity might be able to tell me but I believe it would be a far more satisfactory situation if we had a joint committee which could call evidence about these matters. I believe that we would come up with a far more satisfactory piece of legislation. 
-by leave- I bring up the sixth report from the Publications Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I  bring up the report from the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory on proposals for variations to the plan and layout of the City of Canberra and its environs, the 56th and 57th series. 
Order that the report be printed. 
I  ask leave to move a motion for the Senate to take note of the paper. 
Is the Minister for the Media aware of the unfair and unfounded criticism in some quarters of the lack of ready information about Australian media development? Is the Minister taking any steps to rectify this mischievous criticism? What are these steps, and is there evidence that they will prove successful? 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the terms under which industries affected by the Government's economic policies may apply for assistance. 
What amount of money was allocated for such assistance? 
Which industries, or individuals, have made application for assistance? 
What financial assistance has been provided to date and which industries or individuals have received such assistance? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Will the Minister inform the Senate as to whether there is a policy to ensure that employees of sensitive defence and security establishments are Australian citizens. 
asked the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that the FAO/ACMRR working party on marine mammals stated that whilst the stocks of sperm whales in the southern hemisphere could be at maximum sustainable yield level by numbers, they are certainly far below an acceptable real maximum sustainable yield in terms of weight, age and maturity. 
Will the Minister call for a total re-evaluation of the Cheynes Beach Whaling Company's numerically based maximum sustainable yield slaughter of whales at Albany, Western Australia. 
Is the PostmasterGeneral in a position to provide the Senate with any details of persons who or organisations which proposed Princess Truganini as the subject for the commemorative International 
Women's Year stamp series? Were any Aboriginal persons included in the original suggestions? 
Can the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation indicate whether arrangements have been completed whereby the Repatriation Commission will provide reasons for its decisions? Can the Minister indicate when he will announce the results of the arrangements if they have been completed? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Following upon his statement at his Press Conference at 1 p.m. today about the establishment of an Australian Government insurance office, will the Minister state whether anything in the nature of a feasibility study was undertaken by the Government before a decision was taken to establish such an office? 
I ask the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation: What effect will the establishment of an Australian Government insurance office have on the business of the private insurance industry and in particular on the State Government insurance offices? 
1 am sorry that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson entered this debate because if there is anyone on the Opposition benches for whom I have a regard it is  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. 

 - Senator Withers says: What about me?'. Tonight  Senator Withers  has shown himself to be completely unworthy. He says one thing one day and something else another day. I do not wish to attack him on that ground. I suggest to  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson that like me he might be reaching the end of a perfect day. Perhaps 1 will invite him to stand as an independent at the next election. I do not think he will and he knows that I will not. We say some extravagant things.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson says that there could be a challenge on almost every line of the 6 pages of clause 21. That is an extravagant statement. He did not try to justify it in any shape or form. 
That might be so.  Senator' Withers  will be in Opposition for so many years that he will have the opportunity to say a lot of things too. For the life of me I cannot understand the members of the Liberal Party opposing this proposition. They know that the Country Party will try to swallow them up in every sphere of influence that is possible. Yet the Liberal Party will stand by and see this happen. I. shall refer to one or two instances to show that it is important that members of the Opposition ponder what they are doing. People have been elected to this Parliament as independents and have then joined other political parties when they have seen that it is in their interests to do so. To some extent- I do not say it unkindly- they have misrepresented themselves before the people of Australia. They have said that they are independent, but having been elected as independents they switch over to a political party. Does the Senate think that is fair? Does it think that is reasonable? Let me refer to a part of clause 21 which the Opposition has failed to recognise. Proposed new section 58A (2 ) states: 
Where the Chief Australian Electoral Officer is satisfied that 2 or more parties that are associated with one another have a common leader for electoral purposes and desire to be treated as one party for the purposes of this Part, he may treat those parties as being one party for the purposes of this Part. 
If members of the Liberal Party cannot see what is designed in that section with due respect they are political innocents. What do members of the Opposition see in the present situation? 
I have exploded  Senator Withers'  theories already tonight. Let me address myself to the problem as 1 have already allowed the honourable senator to do. The honourable senator talks parrot fashion about democracy but when I want to project my point of view he endeavours to interject with all sorts of irrelevancies. At least I and members of my Party had the courtesy to hear  Senator Withers  and  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson in silence. 
If the honourable senator waits for a moment I will tell him. The honourable senator becomes so impatient about these things that he shows his ignorance of the real situation. If the honourable senator does not know what will happen with the Country Party, or the so-called National Party, he should be told. Members of the Country Party will go out into the country areas and say that they are representing the country people. They will say: We are the Country Party'. Then they will go into the metropolitan area and say: 'We have changed our philosophy on life. We have changed our philosophy on politics. We represent the people in the cities. We are the National Party'. When they go out into the country they are the Country Party. When they go into the city and are swallowing up areas in which the Liberal Party usually operates they are the National Party. If the Opposition did not see this then it did not want to see it. They are the facts of life. Is it not a deception? Surely honourable senators opposite would agree that it is deception and that a party which parades itself as a party before the electors and the people of any State should have a common name. In the present circumstances, that is not the case. 
Honourable senators will see an example of this in Tasmania shortly. The Country Party or the National Party is endeavouring to extend its influence into that State. Honourable senators will find that when it goes into the country areas _ it will be the Country Party and when it goes into ' such areas as Hobart and Launceston it will be the National Party. I have seen this happen, so it is of no use to tell me that it does not happen. I have seen it happen in Queensland and I know what I am talking about. Anyone else from Queensland knows this. It is useless to say that this clause endeavours to build up any particular party. If it is designed for one purpose, it is designed for honesty in politics. If a person intends to declare himself a follower of the Liberal Party then he should not be ashamed to say that he is a Liberal Party candidate. If he belongs to the Australian Labor Party the same applies. He should not be ashamed to say that he is a member of the Australian Labor Party and will stand in the interests of that Party. I say, with due respect, that this clause is designed to bring a greater degree of honesty into politics than we have seen in the last few years. I repeat that I have a high regard- as everybody else has in this chamber- for  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, but on this occasion he has been led completely astray. 
Perhaps I can answer the last question and add to something  Senator Withers  said. There is no justification, because a State wants something, that legislation should be altered. If that were the case - 
There is no justification for an alteration of the Act because a State wants it. 
With respect, you did. 
It is the same thing. If  Senator Withers  goes to Queensland I will show him that 99 per cent of the electors there want the poll to be open from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. There has never been any attempt to vary that in State elections. In Federal elections all political parties complain that they have to man the booths until 8 p.m. It does not matter whether the booths are closed at 6 p.m. or 8 p.m. One will always find somebody coming up at one minute past six or one minute past eight. We have always found that it is by far the best and appeals to the greatest number of voters in Queensland to have the booths open from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
Now, now, now. Let us consider another aspect of what the Opposition has said. I can see the great disadvantages that can occur. I think I have done my share of political work in the country areas of Queensland and I have heard no complaints whatsoever of anybody not being able to get in his ballot papers in time. With respect to the fact that perhaps there are floods, bushfires or things of that kind and people cannot get their ballot papers, I think  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson said that one poll in New South Wales had to be abandoned in such circumstances. There is no difference now. If there are floods, the people on the roll will not be able to get their ballot papers so I do not think that is a valid excuse. But I shall tell honourable senators where the system can be manipulated, if I may use that word; that is, where there is a roll of people who claim to want a postal vote, as  Senator Withers  has indicated. Suppose some of those people who have claimed that they want a postal vote because they are on a postal vote roll are itinerant workers, timber cutters or shearers. They may apply for a postal vote and in the meantime move on. 
Of course it is not compulsory. 
Just a moment, please. You have had your say; let me have mine.  Senator Withers  said that such people can apply to go on the roll. A worker may feel that he will be working in an area for a considerable time, but for some reason he leaves the area. Who gets the ballot paper then? I know who gets the ballot paper then, and I know how it is filled in. This system is open to abuse. I do not know whether it is open to abuse in Western Australia but I would have to be convinced that there have not been occasions on which the system has been abused. I believe that the system as it operates at present- I have been in the areas to which  Senator Withers  has referred tonight, Leichhardt, Maranoa, Capricornia- is fair. I have heard no complaints about the present arrangements. There are local returning officers and divisional officers to which people may apply and get their postal votes very quickly indeed. I am surprised to hear that there has been any difficulty whatsoever. In my opinion the system the Opposition enunciated is open to misrepresentation and I prefer the one that operates at present. 
It is a pity that  Senator Withers  started to talk about the initials of people. The first letter of  Mr Fraser's  name is 'F', and 'F' stands for something, too.  Senator Withers  said he does not know whether there is any advantage in a candidate 's surname beginning with a letter in the first half of the alphabet. He is wrong. Very few people would vote for the Nazi Party. I think that would be accepted. If one looks at the records one sees that the Nazi Party candidates, when their names appeared first on the ballot paper, scored 3 per cent of the vote. Do not tell me that there is no donkey vote. Do not tell me that 3 per cent of the people of Queensland voted consciously for the Nazi Party. They voted for that Party because they cast a donkey vote. It is easy to see why the Opposition is opposing the Government's proposal. The Opposition runs the risk of losing the preferences of the Australian 
Democratic Labor Party if the names of candidates in an election are drawn from a hat, because the DLP used to be very rigid with its preferences. 
Wait a while.  Senator Withers  has made his contribution and now he wants to deny everybody else the right to make a contribution, and he talks about democracy. It is well known that the DLP used to wait to see who the other candidates were in an election. If Withers was the name of a candidate in a House of Representatives election one could wager guineas to gooseberries that the DLP would not have a candidate named Young as its candidate. It would not ask people to vote ' 1 ' for Young and 2' for Withers. That has been done consistently by the DLP. That is why the Liberal Party does not want a change in the Act. 
I remind  Senator Withers  of the saying that pride comes before a fall. He will come a tremendous fall when we have an election. However,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  I do not think that is the issue. 
The issue is whether it is to the advantage of the people of Australia that on polling days the voting hours be from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. or 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. The old-fashioned cliches that have been drawn out for years in support of 8 p.m. closing have been propounded tonight by an equally old-fashioned Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers).  On no occasion did he justify his remarks by producing any logical argument. He said that his Queensland colleagues had never told him of the advantages of 6 o 'clock closing. I was astounded to hear him say that because they have told me of the advantages of 6 o'clock closing. Their colleagues in the respective parties have never been slow to point out the advantages to the workers, the poll clerks and the presiding officers as a result of 6 p.m. closing. It is all very well for  Senator Withers  to try to joke about the long hours being no disadvantage to the people who are there all day. Obviously he has shirked his responsibility to his Party and has never stayed at the booths all day. If he had, he would not be so flambuoyant about the whole question and would not speak so sarcastically and cynically about anything said in support of 6 o'clock closing. If he believes that the people of Australia would prefer to be able to go to the polls until 8 p.m. rather than that the polls should close at 6 p.m. I believe he is not trying to ascertain the wishes of the people. 
I have done a fair bit of work at polling booths for both State and Federal elections and on every hand I have found that people, particularly the workers, complain about the 8 o'clock closing for Federal elections. Out came the hoary old argument that some people would not be able to get to the polling booths by 6 o'clock. Honourable senators will notice that no evidence has been adduced that that is the case.  Senator Withers  adduced no evidence when he made those outlandish statements. He leaves in the minds of people the idea that perhaps some voters in country areas cannot get to the polling booths by 6 o'clock. Of course, there is a simple solution to that problem, and that is for them to apply for postal votes. I call upon my Queensland colleagues on the Opposition side to deny that what I am saying is correct: There is no greater proportion of people who do not vote in the State elections than in the Federal elections, notwithstanding the fact that for the State elections the booths close at 6 p.m. whereas they close at 8 p.m. for the Federal elections 
Perhaps I could be a little uncharitable to the Queenslanders on the Opposition side and remind them that one of their leaders in Queensland said recently that, if the Queensland Government said that there should be a certain proposition, irrespective of their party affiliations they should vote in accordance with the desire of the Queensland Parliament. Let us put that proposition to the test tonight and see how it works out. Country Party-Liberal Party governments have been in power in Queensland since 1957 and never on any occasion have they tried to alter the hours of voting which presently are from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Obviously they favour those hours rather than 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. That is the test now, and we will see how the Opposition senators react to it. I believe it is entirely wrong to keep people, both paid staff and volunteers, working all day on the booths when it is unnecessary. 

 Senator Withers joked about the fact that even if the booths close at 6 o'clock instead of 8 o'clock people will want to vote at one minute past the closing hour. That is true. They will want to do that, but it is their responsibility to get to the booths within the prescribed hours. That is no argument for having the booths open from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m.; nor is it an argument for having them open from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. The logic of the matter, particularly in these days of modern transport, is true that there is no reason- none has been advanced by  Senator Withers  on behalf of the Opposition- for continuing the 12-hour spread rather than cutting it down to a 10-hour spread. I believe that all the evidence supports the Government proposition. I hope that Opposition senators have discussed this question with their party officials or with the little people in their electorates and have ascertained their wishes. I believe that if a plebiscite were taken on this issue amongst people throughout Australia the overwhelming result would be that the hours of voting should be from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. as is proposed in this Bill. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction: Can he indicate the earliest date on which applications approved for loans under the provisions of the defence homes legislation will be serviced by the Department? 
I present the report of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory on the 58th series of proposed variations to the plan of the layout of the city of Canberra and its environs. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a short statement in relation to the report. 
-In the first place might I say on behalf of the Government to  Senator Drake-Brockman  particularly and to  Senator Webster  that there has never been any thought in the minds of any senators on the Government side of adjudging whether or not  Senator Webster  were guilty. I make that perfectly clear. I have heard the issue discussed on innumerable occasions. Every time it has been stressed that we will not in any circumstance determine by word or deed whether  Senator Webster  is guilty. Rather do we say that it is such a serious matter that the Senate has no alternative but to refer it to the  Court  of Disputed Returns. The acceptance of the resolution put forward by  Senator Wriedt  and the amendment moved by the Opposition is, I believe, indicative of the fact that every member of this Senate is conscious of his responsibility to the people of Australia to see that we do not hide behind the fact that we are members of Parliament. 
I assure honourable senators sitting on the Opposition benches that I speak with the authority of all Government supporters when I reiterate that we have not attempted to judge the merits or demerits of the case. We have not attempted to judge whether the informer was justified in making his accusations. We believe that the informer having submitted his proposal we had no alternative but to take the action and I hope - 
I believe we have no alternative as a Parliament but to refer the matter to the Court of Disputed Returns. I believe the unanimous decision of this Senate will disclose unanimity of thought in that direction. Perhaps we would say that it is repugnant to us to have this matter before us today and of course we would say with a great deal of authority that it is unfortunate that this thing has occurred at all. But there is an old saying: 'There is nothing new under the sun'. I propose to show the Senate where on at least 2 occasions to my knowledge something of a similar nature has occurred. 
First I refer to the case in Tasmania of  Mr John  R. Orchard. He was an Independent member for the seat of Cornwall but was formerly a Liberal member of the Legislative Assembly.  Mr Orchard  was forced to resign from the Tasmanian Legislative Council on 17 September 1968 as a result of a 10 to 8 vote of the Council because he was performing printing work for the State Government through the Telegraph Printery Pty Ltd, Charles St., Launceston, a printing business of which  Mr Orchard  was the sole proprietor or part owner with his wife. I repeat that  Mr Orchard  was in a similar position to that which we find ourselves considering today. The Tasmanian Legislative Council had no hesitation in declaring the seat vacant and appointed another Independent,  Mr R.  W. Shipp. Here was a member of the upper House of Tasmania sitting in Parliament and he was performing work for the Government whilst he was a member of the Tasmanian upper House. He was found guilty, apparently, by the Legislative Council which at that time was comprised, I am informed, entirely of Independents. No party political issues were involved. It was a straight-out Independent Council. It said that  Mr Orchard  would have to go and he was dismissed from his office and another Independent,  Mr Shipp,  was placed in his office. I believe that is fairly important. 
The second case to which I wish to refer occurred in Victoria. I refer to the Victoria Parliamentary debates of the 1970-71 session, volume 299, pages 1 to 1396. On page 73 of the debates of 30 June 1 970- that date is fairly significantthe  Hon.  R. J. Hamer raised the question of the qualification of a member and moved: 
That this House requires the Court of Disputed Returns to hear and determine whether the Honourable Ronald William Walsh is a person capable of being elected a member of the Legislative Council or of continuing to be a member, pursuant to the qualification requirements of section 73 of The Constitution Act Amendment Act 1 958 (No. 6224). 

 Mr Hamer went on further to say: 
I now remind the House of the constitutional situation. I suppose 'remind' is the wrong word because most honourable members have never come into contact with this sort of thing in their time, and perhaps I should say that I shall explain the constitutional situation. So far as I am aware, such a matter has not arisen in this Chamber for 40 years or more; certainly it has never arisen in the present form because the Act was amended in 1961 to set up the Court of Disputed Returns for just such an eventuality. 

 Mr Hamer then went on to say: 
The motion refers to section 73 of The Constitution Act Amendment Act, and 1 think I should start from there. Section 73 appears under the heading 'Qualification Etc. of Members ' and reads- 
Any natural-born or naturalised subject of Her Majesty, who is of the full age of twenty-one years, shall be qualified to be elected a member of the Council: 
Provided that no person shall be capable of being elected or continuing to be a member of the Council who- 
is a judge of any court of Victoria;- paragraph (b), which refers to a minister of religion has been repealed- 
has been convicted of treason or any felony or infamous crime in any pan of Her Majesty's dominions; 
d ) is an uncertified bankrupt or insolvent. 
Therefore, there are three provisos to the general provision. Section 74 follows- 
1 ) If any person who is not qualified to be or nor capable of being elected a member of the Council is elected and returned as a member of the Council such election and return may be declared by the Court of Disputed Returns to be void to all intents and purposes. 
If any person so elected and returned contrary to the provisions of this Part sits or votes in the Council, he shall be l iable to a penalty of Two hundred pounds to be recovered by any person who sues for the same in any court of competent jurisdiction. 
Having referred to that £200,I suggest that later we shall know something more about that. The part about qualifications and vacancies states: 
Any question respecting the qualification of a member of or respecting a vacancy in the Assembly or the Council may be referred by resolution of the Assembly or of the Council (as the case requires) to the Court of Disputed Returns and the Court of Disputed Returns shall thereupon have jurisdiction to hear and determine the question. 
Honourable senators will realise that that situation arose in Victoria. If I say to you that I am reminded of the date of 30 June 1970 it is because a lad named Walsh had, some 20 years previously, been charged in a Children's Court with, I believe, assault. But he was not convicted and fined or gaoled. He was placed on a bond to be of good behaviour in the future. We have the 2 situations to which I have referred, and I believe it important that we note those matters.  Mr Hamer  referred to certain matters and then said: 
This is the legislative background to the matter. I am proposing that this chamber find that there is a question as to the qualification of a member and that it should take the action laid down under the Act to have the matter determined. 
That is, by a Court of Disputed Returnsprecisely what the Senate proposes to do. 
I suggest that, should we attempt to do anything other than refer the matter to a Court of Disputed Returns, we could be charged by the people of Australia with showing some degree of leniency or sympathy to one of our own. I believe that the Senate had no alternative but to act as it is doing. One might ask what the Australian Labor Party's attitude was at that time. The records show that we opposed the proposition on the score that this incident had happened 20 years previously when the lad was tried in a Children's Court.  Mr Tripovich,  in the debate on that occasion, said that what had happened in the Children's Court should never have been brought into Parliament. 
I come now to the attitude of the Country Party and of the honourable I. A. Swinburne, representing North-Eastern Province, who said: 
Tonight, we face a position unique during the 24 years in which I have been a member of this House. 
He continued by saying that the Country Party was going to support the proposition. He later said: 
The Country Party has examined the position. Its members were given a copy of the brief provided by the Crown Solicitor, and have studied it. As  Mr Tripovich  has said, there are arguments for and against. This is probably something which both he and I, as non-legal men, do not fully understand. Legal practitioners seem to be able to argue both ways and to come down on one side or the other, or in the middle, and this often intrigues us. My Party has decided to support the motion for one reason, that the qualification of a member has been challenged and it believes that the right and proper body to determine that qualification is the Court of Disputed Returns of the Supreme Court of Victoria. The court is set up for that purpose, and this House is not. 
I believe that we are on very strong grounds when we adopt a similar attitude concerning one of our own. I repeat: Should we do other than act in accordance with the motion moved by  Senator Wriedt  we could be charged with favouring one of our own. The Opposition believes that the motion should be widened and that all members of the Parliament should be subjected to some kind of investigation if warranted. We do not oppose that proposition, because we believe exactly the same, namely, if any of our members on the Government side are in default of the Constitution they will have to face the situation. But I am not altogether happy about the amendment, because it appears that it could lead to a witch hunt. Nevertheless, to prove the bona fides of the Government, we accept the proposition of the Opposition, with all its deficiencies, believing that it will indicate to Australia at large that no favouritism is shown to any member of the Australian Government party or to any Opposition member if that member is acting contrary to the Australian Constitution. I commend the proposition. 
Is it the wish of the Committee that the 2 amendments be taken together? There being no objection, it is so ordered. 
In sub-clause (1), after 'who' leave, out 'is directly or indirectly interested in a contract made or proposed to be made', insert 'has a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in a matter being considered or about to be considered '. 
In sub-clause (1), after 'persons', insert 'and of which he is not a director'. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report adopted. 
We now proceed to deal with the groups of departments covered by Estimates Committee A. The question is: 
That the votes for the group of departments covered by Estimates Committee A be passed without requests. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
