My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence or the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction. It relates to the complaints recently made by  Mr F.  X. Purcell, a Werribee solicitor, to the commanding officers of the Royal Australian Air Force at Laverton and Point Cook in Victoria about the sub-standard condition of housing provided for Air Force personnel at Laverton. 
I ask: Firstly, is the Minister aware that these housing conditions have resulted in a constant morale problem amongst servicemen and their families in that area; and, secondly, what steps has he taken to make available the funds necessary to enable these deficiencies to be remedied speedily? 
Is the Attorney-General aware that immediately prior to the May 1974 general election, officers of the Fitzroy Legal Service and the Springvale Legal Service in Victoria wrote on the official letterhead of their respective offices to clients and former clients urging electoral support for the Australian Labor Party? Does the Australian Government provide financial assistance in the operations of either or both of these legal services? Does the AttorneyGeneral agree that such political pressure constitutes undue influence and is inconsistent with the proper legal relationship which officers of such legal services should maintain towards their respective clients? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. I refer to the Minister's statement of 9 July 1974 in which he pointed out that there were increased differentials between nursing home benefits paid to Victoria and those paid to other States due to the fact that the Victorian State Government's staffing and nursing standards were higher than those in other States. Did the Minister then threaten that he would find an alternative system for financing private nursing homes if the States continued to determine standards on an uneven basis? Does the Australian Government mean by this statement that State governments are to be denied the right to determine such standards in accordance with the priorities they present to their electors? Do not the high standards set in Victoria accord generally with the recommendations of the Victoria Nursing Council? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. I refer to the recommendation made by  Mr Justice  Campbell in his report entitled Inquiry into Academic Salaries' and dated May 1973 in which he proposed the establishment of an academic salaries tribunal. I ask: Firstly, is the Minister aware of the serious concern of academics at the continuing delay in the establishment of this tribunal and at the disadvantage that they are thereby suffering in this period of high and rising inflation? Secondly, when does the Minister propose to introduce legislation on this subject? 
-I remind the AttorneyGeneral that as long ago as 10 January 1973 he made a public statement acknowledging the Government's intention to introduce a freedom of information Bill along the lines of the United States Freedom of Information Act and detailed in his statement the major features of such legislation. I ask: What is the reason for the prolonged delay in introducing such legislation; when will it be introduced; and will the contents of the proposed Bill be available for full consideration by senators, members and interested members of the public for some period before the debate proceeds in the Parliament? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport or the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. Is the Minister aware of the deteriorating situation in the port of Melbourne where up to 7 ships are now waiting for berths to unload their cargoes? Does he agree that a large part of the problem arises from a shortage of 1,500 workers on the waterfront and from the fact that no temporary labour is admitted to the waterfront to assist in moving this cargo?  Is  it a fact that shipping companies are now commencing to charge exporters congestion surcharges' which, if not paid, could lead to cargo not being moved? Will he tell the Senate what steps are being taken by the Government to ease this situation which already is having harmful effects on our overseas trade? 
I have a supplementary question. I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether the responsible Australian ambassador in the area has reported to the Government on the matter. 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of recent documented allegations made by the Executive Council of Australian Jewry and other responsible authorities concerning the persecution of the Jewish community in Syria, including numerous murders, assaults, religious persecutions, confinement to ghettos and denial of normal human rights in defiance of the United Nations Declaration on Human Rights? Has the Government made any public statement or any representations to the Syrian Government concerning these allegations? If not, will it do so at an early date? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, follows upon the answer that he gave to  Senator Greenwood.  In relation to the present position of  Mr Georgi  Ermolenko in Perth, does he not agree that the desire of the Australian Government to see its own citizens when in custody in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics is quite different from the request that is now made- that there should be some period when this young man can make up his own mind and consult privately in the absence of Russian consular officials who may be in a position to intimidate him? 
-I thank the House for the opportunity to speak at this stage. I have found one thing in the course of the short period I have been here: One of the most difficult things to do is to make a so-called maiden speech and I think I should take the opportunity when it arises. I should like to join in speaking on the Trade Practices Bill because I believe it is an important Bill and one which will have very significant consequences for the people of Australia. I desire firstly to speak on the subject of the Trade Practices Bill generally and then to add some remarks in respect of the consumer protection provisions of it. It was said today by one  speaker  that this legislation has had a long gestation period. Though that may have been said in some critical way I do not think it is necessarily a criticism. I believe that legislation of this nature has significant consequences for the people and the industries of the country and consequently should be considered very carefully. 
So far as the Bill itself is concerned, I would suggest that this is the end of a process which has developed over the years and which has been the result of some quite excellent legislation in the 
East. The present legislation which is before us as already been amended in quite substantial degree in the course of its development. I think that shows wisdom on the part of both sides of the House and I think it will require some further amendment in the course of the Committee stages. We go back to legislation which has now been in existence nearly 10 years. I should like to remind the Senate of the words spoken by  Sir Garfield  Barwick when he introduced his original proposals. He regarded the objectives as:  the maintenance of free enterprise under which citizens are at liberty to participate in the production and distribution of the nation's wealth plus ensuring competitive conditions which tend to initiate resourcefulness, productive efficiency, high output and fair and reasonable prices to the consumer. 
I still believe that these aims are important and significant for legislation at this stage. Earlier today  Senator Greenwood  referred to the 1973 report of the Commissioner of Trade Practices and various conclusions which he then drew. I think I should read a short passage from the report. The Commissioner said: 
The current legislation, which is clearly coming to the end of its time, has nevertheless served a valuable role. Among other things, it has provided an entry into a field substantially untouched for many years. It brought the problems to public and business attention and it becomes a means of moving towards principle and demonstrating the need for further legislation. It is also an important vehicle for the development of constitutional law in this field and beyond it. 
Clearly it has developed and the powers which people thought were doubtful when it was originally introduced have now been shown to be greater and consequently stronger legislation can be introduced at this time. In this Bill we are really adopting something more like the American system of controlling restrictive trade practices. I must say that I have always felt that there was probably more merit, generally speaking, in the American system than there was m the rather slower process of dealing agreement by agreement, which has been the process in Australia to this date. I think it may have been wise that we adopted the other measure so that the community became used to the system and used to the fact that it had to register agreements. I think now that it is in fact better that there should be further prohibitions against action so that we may have a quicker means of dealing with restrictive trade practices. 
The amendments which have already been foreshadowed by the Opposition will I think improve the legislation. There is validity in the criticism that has been made, that there is a certain lack of evidence in respect of certain practices which are to be outlawed. But no doubt in the course of the working of the legislation cause will be found for further amendment to it. I believe it is probably important to take a fairly strong stand at this time. I should like to quote from one significant reference to the present Trade Practices Bill. It is to be found in the 'Australian Business Law Review' which was issued in April of this year. It is an article by Professor Robert Baxt and Professor Maureen Brunt and they make 2 preliminary statements which I think are important. They draw attention to the characteristics of this legislation and they state: 
First, its starting point is found in American legislation and practice; but, second, running parallel with this American component of court-enforced competitioncomplementing it, in uneasy tension with it- is an administrative procedure for authorising anti-competitive conduct when found to be 'in the public interest'. In these two basic characteristics are found both the strengths and the problems of the legislation. They also, incidentally, account for much of its complexity. 
Later on page 8 of the report they state: 
In the Murphy Bill there is an attempt to demarcate an area of concern for the court of law as an institution and a complementary area for the administrative tribunal that is good. Unfortunately, we believe, the execution of this aim is somewhat faulty. 
In that fault there are 4 problem areas which I think are worth recording and which will probably partly be covered by amendments but will partly be problems for the future. The report refers to these 4 areas and lists them as: 
1 ) The use of vague and sweeping language to establish the standards of liability to be adjudicated by the courts. 
The specification of a detailed coverage of trade practices, and an ordering of priorities, derived more from 
American law and Australian judicial/administrative processes than from government policies directed to characteristic problems  or  the Australian economy. 
The creation of a dual enforcement structure- the Courts and the Commission/Tribunal- without due regard to appropriateness of function, consistency of standards, and avoidance of overlap. 
The use of overly general language in the drafting of the public interest test (clause  90(5) )  for the granting of authorisations. 
I think that those criticisms will probably require further consideration but I believe that basically the legislation proposed is sound and, with some amendment, will add to the trade practices legislation and wil provide some teeth for it for the future. 
I now turn to the second aspect of the legislation and add some remarks to what  Senator Guilfoyle  has said about the consumer protection clauses, and the proposals which the Opposition makes to delete them from this Bill. I consider the deletion of these clauses to be constructive in the present circumstances because the Opposition has made its position clear from the start. The Opposition spokesman on consumer affairs for the joint Parties, the honourable member for Wentworth (  Mr Ellicott),  on 29 July said: 
The Opposition is strongly in favour of consumer protection provisions and of substantial - 
Debate interrupted. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer, firstly, to the Treasurer's proposals dated March 1974 for a new superannuation scheme for Australian Government employees and, secondly, to the actuarial report on the scheme dated 18 June 1974. Did the Treasurer request interested persons and organisations to comment on the scheme not later than IS July 1974 so that the Government could take an early decision on his proposals? Is he aware that many officers of the Public Service have to make early decisions whether to take up additional units under the existing scheme and are embarrassed and suffering loss due to the delayed decision as to the implementation of the proposed new scheme? Can an early decision be expected? 
When the Senate adjourned last evening I had discussed the main aspects of the Trade Practices Bill, the second reading of which is being supported by the Opposition. I had gone on to mention that particular Part of this Bill that was discussed also by  Senator Guilfoyle  last evening, namely, the consumer protection provisions set out in Part V and in respect of which the Opposition will be moving amendments to delete those provisions from the Bill. I said then and I say again that undoubtedly in the minds of the Opposition and certainly in my mind is the fact that this deletion is intended to show a constructive attitude and to be a constructive action. It is desired by the Opposition that there should be effective consumer protective legislation in Australia and not the creation of legislation which may appear to be comprehensive but which may, in its result, be not very successful. 
I refer again to the statement made on 29 July this year by  Mr R.  J. Ellicott, the Opposition spokesman on consumer affairs. In regard to this Part of the measure he then said: 
The Opposition is strongly in favour of consumer protection provisions and of substantial penalties for their breach. However, the Government's present proposals will leave consumer protection legislation in a complete state of confusion and will not be in the best interests of the consumer. 
He went on to detail the constitutional difficulties and the absence in the Bill of a provision for the establishment of consumer claim tribunals. He then said: 
There is, however, a great deal to be said for federal laws fixing standards in relation to consumer products. What the Opposition wants the Government to do is to withdraw its consumer protection provision and hold discussions with the States with a view to producing an effective code which will cover all traders, ensure substantial penalties and give consumers the benefit of consumer claim tribunals. 
Of course, there is a great deal of feeling in the community on the subject of consumer protection and this has risen in recent years. It has been observed by all parties and been encouraged by many active groups in the community. We have left the position we had previously where the consumer took just what he got, where manufacturers and agents and other people, with staff and ability, were sometimes able to trick the consumer and to give him something which was by no means what he expected to get. As evidenced considerably in recent years by State legislation, there is no doubt that there is a great desire for effective consumer protection. I emphasise the word 'effective'. 
In this Bill we are dealing with a Commonwealth power which is basically only jurisdiction in respect of the corporate power of the Commonwealth. It does not relate to individual dealings. Therefore the legislation, with one exception, deals exclusively with the relationship of the consumer to the corporation or the company and not the individual. It is beyond the power of the Commonwealth, of course, to deal with the whole wide ambit of this area of consumer protection. In fact there is a need for State initiatives and there will continue to be a need for State initiatives. It has been continuing; it will be continuing, and one would expect that irrespective of this Bill there will be a constant need for States to update their legislation as they find circumstances changing in their particular State and, of course, in Australia generally. 
I refer to the fact that in many other fields we have seen the value of these State operations over many years. To take the case of the voting systems in the early days of Australia, the pioneering work carried out by individual States was copied by other states. It led to great improvements and, of course, these systems were ultimately adopted by the Commonwealth. 
The appointment of an ombudsman started in one State, was tried in other States and developed and changed. It is the result of this interrelation between the States and the Commonwealth that the best legislation can come about. To try to impose, even if we could, a set of legislation on a Commonwealth basis may make it even more difficult to change when new circumstances arise in one part of Australia or another. 
There is, as  Senator Guilfoyle  said last night, State legislation applying to various fields that are covered by the consumer protection provisions of this Bill. In some other fields there is very little legislation and a different situation might arise. For example clause S3 of the Bill relates to false representations- it was mentioned last night. It will be seen that from State to State there are already detailed provisions covering this area. One must be careful about wiping out or destroying the effectiveness of those existing provisions by some comprehensive but general and vague legislation.  Senator Coleman  said last night that there was a hotch potch of existing legislation- as though that was necessarily a bad thing. I would consider, on the other hand, that a variety of legislation and a variety of initiatives are in fact a good idea in this country, particularly as the areas of complaint are developing and changing from day to day. As I have said, in other areas- for example, home industries and the allegations made by people to encourage others to undertake home industries, which are dealt with in clause 59- there is little or no legislation on this subject in the States. The States deal more with the supply of goods used in the home. This may be an area where there is call for general Commonwealth legislation. 
To give one more example of this, the pyramid selling legislation, which m this Bill is set out in detail, may not necessarily provide the best scheme available. The States have different legislation. There has been a lot of criticism and dispute about this subject. It is suggested in many quarters that the pyramid selling legislation in New South Wales does provide a greater flexibility for the ministry there to deal with particular schemes that may be developed and which may not come within the scope of the Commonwealth legislation. I summarise generally in this area by referring, if I may, to the recent draft 'Federal Platform' of the Liberal Party on consumer affairs. After pointing out the very great necessity for the free exercise of choice by consumers it said: 
Liberal policy therefore affirms that the Federal Government must co-operate with the States to- 
. Ensure that the law maintains a proper balance between supplier and consumer, and, in particular, offers protection against unfair or dishonest business practices which militate against equality of bargaining power. 
Ensure the following fundamental rights: 
a ) The right to be informed . . . 
the right to be in a position of equal bargaining power . . . 
c) the right to choose . . . 
the right to safety .. . 
e ) the right to be heard . . . 
These are all matters in which the consumer must exercise his ability and enjoy his rights. The document states further that the Federal Government must co-operate with the States to: 
Promote the establishment and maintenance of high standards of goods and services, supported where necessary by Federal and State government agencies empowered to supervise these standards and take corrective action where they are not met. 
I put it to honourable senators that the cooperation of State and Federal bodies will continue to be necessary for the proper implementation of legislation. I briefly detail 3 basic objections to the continuance of Part V of this Bill. It has been said and I agree with it- that there will be confusion between State and Federal legislation in many fields. There will also be doubt as to its constitutional operation.  Senator Coleman  said last night by way of an interjection that this Bill will mean the strengthening of State laws. I put it to her that unfortunately this Bill may not have that effect at all but may mean a weakening, particularly for an individual who wants to decide what he is going to do in a certain set of circumstances. There has been an endeavour, certainly in clause 75 of the Bill, to overcome the constitutional difficulty that may arise whereby all the effectiveness of the State laws may be wiped out by the overriding effect of the Commonwealth provisions. Clause 75 ( 1 ) of the Bill states: 
 Except as provided by sub-section (2) - which relates to offences and convictions- this Part is not intended to exclude or limit the concurrent operation of any law of a State or Territory. 
As  Mr Ellicott  pointed out in the other place, that clause may well not have the effect which the Government intends. It is all right to say that an effect is not intended, but if the law has a certain meaning and effect that is how it will be judged by the Courts. Section 109 of the Constitution states: 
When a law of a State is inconsistent with a law of the Commonwealth, the latter shall prevail, and the former shall, to the extent of the inconsistency, be invalid. 
So it is a question of fact as to whether Commonwealth legislation in these fields is inconsistent with State laws. In my opinion, the Bill will wipe out the State laws in many of these fields, whether or not it is the intention of this Parliament to achieve that result. This clause may make it impossible for an individual in a State to have recourse to the consumer claims tribunalsthe Small Claims Courts in Victoria, Queensland and, I think, New South Wales- which are intended to enable persons to pursue, without legal cost, their claims against other persons. 
The Commonwealth seeks to take away the right of an individual under existing State laws to execute his claim against a corporation. An individual who has a claim against another individual can continue his claim, but an individual who has a just claim against a corporation must go to a court under the Commonwealth Act, thereby incurring expense and difficulty. I suggest that this anomaly be ironed out before the legislation comes before this Parliament again. The Commission which is set up under the Bill has not the function of receiving and dealing with complaints from individuals. It has plenty of powers to advise people about their rights, but as I read the Bill the Commission has not the function of receiving and dealing with individual complaints. Therefore, I maintain that the very useful set of claims tribunals in the States should not be greatly weakened by legislation of the Commonwealth. 
It has been said that there is need for uniform legislation. Apparently it is presumed that it must be legislation which we impose on the States, not necessarily the type of uniform legislation which, in the past, in a number of fields has been created by co-operation between the States and the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth, which has its Territories to administer and the States, which have their problems in their own jurisdictions, have got together in regard to other jurisdictions such as company law and have arranged uniform legislation which all parliaments have passed and which has had effective operation. It does not necessarily mean that the Senate must pass legislation to cover the whole field. 
I deal now with a matter which  Senator Everett  raised yesterday. He said that there ought to be a reference of powers by the States. This may be so. But the Commonwealth does not appear to have approached the States for such a reference. It may well be that the results of further discussions between the Commonwealth and the States will lead to some useful reference of powers where such a course is obviously necessary because of the complexity of schemes which cover more than one State. So I suggest that uniform legislation does not necessarily mean that the Commonwealth should impose its legislation on the States. 
The third matter which I say is good reason for reconsideration of the problem is the confusion of enforcement which is contemplated under this scheme and under the existing powers and existing organisations of the Commonwealth. In an interesting article in the 'National Times' of 12 August  Mr Andrew  Clark referred to the number of organisations which were already involved in the consumer protection area in the Commonwealth. The article stated: 
Along with the proposed Customer Protection Bureau, and the Commissioner for Consumer Standards, the Purchasing Commission will be able to act as a major referral authority- in testing , usage and launching prosecutions. 
Cabinet has still not decided on the position of the Customer Protection Bureau and the replacement for the interim Commission on Consumer Standards, which itself replaced a task force on consumer standards, appointed by  Mr Morrison  in May last year. 
It now seems likely that the bureau will become part of the Trade Practices Commission. This would divide Government responsibility in the consumer area between  Mr Morrison  and the Attorney-General,  Senator Lionel  Murphy, with the former looking after Consumer Standards and the latter being responsible for their inclusion into the Trade Practices Commission, and prosecutions. 
He pointed out also that a Commission of Consumer Standards was to be set up within the Department of Science. It seems to me that the whole area has not been sufficiently thought out, that there will be a need for reconciliation between the various areas of authority and that time is therefore needed for the Government to determine what its proposals are in this field. For these various reasons I maintain that it is desirable that these provisions of the Bill be deleted at the present time. 
I entered this Senate having campaigned for many months on the basis, which I continue to maintain, that there is a great need to pursue the politics of construction rather than the politics of fear in this country. We must be vigilant in all kinds of things but I believe that overwhelmingly it is the duty of honourable senators and members of Parliament to be looking constructively at legislation. Although it may appear that this part of the legislation sought to be taken out is based upon the fact that there is to be a reduction of some Commonwealth power, I would suggest instead that it gives the opportunity for the Australian Government to consider a Bill where this matter could be dealt with alone. Consumer protection sits unnaturally in this Bill. It needs a rethinking by the Australian Government, discussion by the States and an attempt to take up those parts of Commonwealth power which are necessary for it to have. This may include the creation of standards which are Commonwealth wide and in respect of which one State cannot operate satisfactorily. There are a number of areas in which clearly the Commonwealth should act. It has gone beyond those powers and desirable objectives in this Bill. Therefore I think that those parts of this Bill should be removed for the moment and I hope that the Government will consider these proposals and will deal with them constructively as, I suggest, we as an Opposition have dealt with them. 
Personally I am not satisfied that the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  has shown satisfactorily that this power should be contained in this clause. At the most he has said in general that there should be some kind of supervision, whereas the clause states: 
The Attorney-General may give directions to the Commission - 
True, it excludes Part VII-  and the Commission shall comply with any directions so given. 
I take it that that includes the functions of the Commission, the functions in clause 28 and the various functions which are set out earlier. I note that when this clause was attacked in the other place the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  said it was well known that this provision in the Bill related only to matters of priority and not to anything of a judicatory nature. I do not know what 'priority' means in this sense. I do not think that this clause defines the matter in that way. Today we have had an explanation different from what it was said was intended. 
Maybe some supervision is required. But this supervision, as I see it, would include the delaying of rights. It is not satisfactory to say that we can come back here and criticise this clause in the Senate if, in fact, it relates to the exercise of rights, including evidence, hearings and so forth, which have been mentioned in earlier clauses of the Bill. It may be too late for us to come back later and to say: 'You should not have done this', or 'This direction no longer has the approval of the Senate'. It seems to me that this clause is altogether too wide to leave it as it stands here. The explanation today and the explanation which was given earlier indicate to me that at the very least, even if we do not remove the 2 clauses, they ought to be re-committed so that there is a limit on the power of the Minister in relation to the Commission. It is given a lot of functions which are publicly known and which it is expected to carry out. Later, we could find that several of these functions are said to have no priority because the Minister so directs. I believe that this clause changes the Bill substantially and leaves with the Minister a power which should not remain in any Minister's hands. 
I suggest that it will not be as simple as the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  said for someone to make use of the words in the amendment to escape the provisions in this clause. Sub-section (3) states: 
In any proceeding for a contravention  or  sub-section ( I ), the onus of establishing that that sub-section does not apply in relation to a discrimination by reason of sub-section (2) is on the party asserting that sub-section ( 1 ) does not so apply. 
So the onus will be on the corporation to bring itself within the provisions of (2) (b) and to prove, if the words in the amendment are added, that it reasonably believed there was a price or benefit to be offered by a competitor. It will not be sufficient merely to say that it believed that some competitor was offering something. There would have to be a reasonable belief. There would have to be some evidence of it. I suggest that the amendment is no Pandora's box. It is reasonable that this way out should be left to a person. He may not know that a competitor has offered it, but he may have very good reason to believe that. If he has that proof, if he has some satisfactory reason and if he can discharge the onus, the words which  Senator Greenwood  suggests should be added to the clause are desirable and fair, bearing in mind particularly the high penalty which people will pay if convicted of price discrimination. Therefore, I suggest that it is not a simple matter. The amendment is a fair and reasonable one. 
-As has been indicated already in the second reading debate on this Bill, the Opposition desires to have the whole of Part V removed completely. It is opposed to the inclusion of these clauses in the Bill and will vote against the Part. I do not propose to repeat the arguments which  Senator 
Guilfoyle and I and other speakers have expressed with regard to this Part of the Bill in the last 2 days. But I do wish to say one or two things about this matter. 
Of course, many representations have been made by many people and interests in respect of the whole of the Bill. I think it can probably fairly be said that manufacturing concerns and other economic interests of that sort do not seem to have concentrated very much on the contents of Part V. There have been representations and there are, of course, feelings. Perhaps they have been somewhat induced by some misunderstandingsI will not go any further than that- on the part of some ofthe consumer groups that the deletion of this Part will in fact lead to some less effective form of consumer protection. It is the belief of the Opposition that in fact the deletion of this Part is more likely to lead to more effective long term consumer protection. 
Part V proposes that various acts will be prohibited. It has already been pointed out that the States already have quite comprehensive and detailed legislation in respect of a number of these matters mentioned in Part V. It also has been pointed out that the effect of this Part, if adopted, might well be that much of the State legislation would be wiped out and all its effectiveness lost. Certainly that could well apply in respect of the dealings which individuals have with corporations. 
I do not propose to go into that constitutional argument, except to say that it is not appreciated by many people outside this chamber that in fact that may well be the result. There may well be the result that Commonwealth legislation, phrased in general terms, will stop the individual- I am dealing with the individual, not so much the State-from enjoying the effective remedies that he has already under State legislation. It has been pointed out that the Commonwealth, under its own legislation- limited, as it is, to the corporations power- is not able to provide the small claims courts and the consumer tribunals which are required and cheap, quick and easy justice which is necessary for individuals whether they are dealing with other individuals or with corporations. If the view we have expressed is correct and constitutionally the State legislation in respect of these tribunals will be wiped out as far as an individual dealing with a corporation is concerned, there will be a great loss to the consumers and to consumer organisations; they will be unable to deal in that area in the future. 

 Senator Wright pointed out this morning that the implied conditions and warranties contained in Division 2 of this Part are very much a repetitionalthough in different language to some extent- of legislation which appears in most of the goods Acts and other legislation of the States at the present time. The position therefore is that, as has been said time and again, the inclusion of this Part in the legislation at the moment will lead to confusion, constitutional doubt and probably a denial of some rights which consumers have at present. One other thing should be pointed out because I do not think it has been referred to earlier in the debate. In clause 28 of the Bill, which already has been passed by the Committee, the functions ofthe Commission are set out. Clause 28 states: 
1 ) In addition to any other functions conferred on the Commission by this Act, the Commission has the following functions- 
to examine critically, and report to the AttorneyGeneral on, the laws in force in Australia relating to the protection of consumers in respect of matters referred to the Commission by the Attorney-General, being matters with respect to which the Parliament has power to make laws; 
Other paragraphs in that clause will lead to the collection by the Commission of a great deal of material on the consumer situation. I suggest that no doubt the Attorney-General will give such directions when this legislation comes into operation. No doubt there will be this assessment of the laws and this assessment of the need for Commonwealth legislation. I have no doubt that in some areas there is a need for Commonwealth legislation- for instance, on the standards which are widespread throughout Australia, as well as other areas which are of common knowledge and common importance to the people throughout Australia. But that does not mean that the achievements of the States should be wiped out. 
It is for those major reasons that at this stage we of the Opposition believe that Part V should be taken out of this Bill. No doubt it will appear in some other form. It ought to appear after the investigations are carried out by the Commission. It ought to appear after the States have been consulted and it is known how far comprehensive legislation can be agreed on and adopted by the States as well as by the Commonwealth. Then, no doubt, there will be an area in which the Commonwealth can take some useful legislative action. For those reasons we propose to vote against the whole of Part V. 
I think it is necessary to say a few words in reply to some matters which  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Everett  in particular have raised on this proposal to delete this section from the legislation. In dealing with this matter last night the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  chose to slide right across the surface of the argument and not to go into the depth of it. He chose to go from one clause to another and say things like: 'Is this contrary to Liberal philosophy? Is that contrary to Liberal philosophy?' But he chose to ignore entirely what was the essential argument that the Opposition advanced, namely, that what is essential is that in this community there shall be laws passed by the Commonwealth where there are necessary Commonwealth purposes and there shall be laws passed by the States also in their own area. 
The Attorney-General said that we have arrived at a national economy and that laws in this area should run right across the nation. Of course, that is the high point of centralism. I suggest that we should accept rather the inference which we must take from  Senator Everett's  views- he comes from a State which has propounded laws in this area- when he said that there will be a constant need for statesmanship on the pan of the States. That will continue. Even if this section becomes part of the Act it will be necessary for the States to continue to pick up the areas where new demands and problems arise. Consequently we say that one cannot look at this matter in isolation from the States and that it requires further discussion and consideration with the States.  Senator Everett  says that he and the public are puzzled. They will be puzzled because we have here a superficial appeal being put into effect by adopting a Commonwealth law in regard to consumer protection- and that is seen to be the end of the problem. Whereas, it is evident, I think, that it will remove many rights which consumers have at the moment. It will create confusion. It has not been thought out thoroughly or discussed thoroughly with the States. 
In regard to the statement that the Opposition considers that this is good law, I do not think that statement appears from any of the speeches that have been made on the Opposition side. As we have said, matters in relation to product safety standards and product information standards appear to have a certain Commonwealth importance, and it may well be that they should be in a law of this nature. But we say that one should look at each of these things and decide what is gained and what is lost by introducing a general Commonwealth law and thereby obliterating in part the rights which individuals will have, particularly in the small claims tribunal area. The Opposition's general contention may be said to be this: If this Part stays in the Bill, superficially it will appear that the Commonwealth has tidied up, finished with this area of consumer protection, but that will not be so. There will be disappointment. It will be seen that people have lost rights which they had. There is a refusal to consider this matter further. It is not an idea on the part of the Opposition that we should remove Commonwealth responsibility from this area. It is our idea that consideration of this matter should be done in depth and more thoroughly. By leaving this section in the Bill we may be selling the consumer short. That is what I fear will happen and that is what we have tried to avoid. 
I consider that this is a very important and necessary amendment to this Bill. It is all right for the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  to say that we would be importing a notion of criminality into this if, in fact, it is beyond reasonable doubt. But I think we have got to look at the substance of the clause which is proposed. It is one which imposes very heavy penalties not only on people who commit offences under the Act but also on those who induce the offence and those who are directly or indirectly concerned and those who conspire. It is not just a matter of a wealthy company paying the penalty. It is a matter of individuals who may be fined a pecuniary penaltythe word 'penalty ' is used in the Bill- of up to $50,000. This sweeps far in excess of most of the criminal penalties that are found in our community. To talk about importing a notion of criminality into this matter, when in fact it concerns a very grave offence and a very grave penalty on the part of persons, is I think a matter that has substance. Furthermore, to say that the gravity of the matter will be taken into account by the court when it is considering say, the penalty, is I think - 
-Whether it has been proved? 
-When we refer to the proof of the matter we refer to the person who it is claimed has committed an offence having the right to demand that the commission of the offence be established. He should not have to depend on the fact that the court may consider that it is a very serious offence and therefore may impose in its own mind some higher standard of proof. That is what the Government is really suggestingthat the court somehow will make up its mind to impose a higher standard. This is not what the Government is setting out in this Bill. It is leaving the question as a matter of proof on the balance of probability. It is not sufficient in my view that the Government should leave it to the person who is adjudicating the offence to determine that it is a very serious matter and that therefore he will require more proof. It is important that citizens will know, from reading the Bill, exactly what their offences may be and what proof will be required. 
I want to remind the Committee that last night we did two things in respect of clause 46, the 
Senate decided it would not put in the word 'wilfully' to establish the offence of monopolisation. There is, of course, a lot of doubt and vagueness about that clause. I suggest that if the Government is not going to have words like 'wilfully' in the Bill then it certainly does want a standard of proof which is high before penalties are imposed. 
I refer now to another example of what we did last night- clause 49 which relates to price discrimination. The Committee would not in subclause (1) include the word 'knowingly'. Not only that, the Committee left it as a matter of fact to be established as to whether there was discrimination between purchasers of goods. In that same clause there is a provision that persons can, of course, prove that they have not committed an offence. That is in sub-clause (2). Sub-clause (3) of clause 49 states: 
In any proceeding for a contravention of sub-section ( 1 ), the onus of establishing that that sub-section does not apply in relation to a discrimination by reason of sub-section (2) is on the party asserting that sub-section ( 1 ) does not so apply. 
So, we are already importing an onus on the defendant if he is to establish a defence under subclause 2. We should bear in mind the decisions which we made and the fact that we did not include these last night. On that basis I think that at least in this clause, bearing in mind the reality of the matter- not whether the penalty will be given the name of a civil penalty or a criminal penalty; that is not the substance. The substance is the amount of money and the responsibility which individuals in this community will undergo if they are convicted of charges under Part IV. I think that, bearing in mind the substance of the whole matter, it would be outrageous for us to impose these penalties without requiring the criminal standards of proof to be satisfied before people are subjected to these charges are sustained. 
I would suggest to the Attorney-General that even the precedent which we heard him read out, and on which  Senator Greenwood  commented, refers to a document being produced in a 'prosecution' under the Act. In this Bill the reference is much wider. Clause 149 (2) says that a person may not be required to produce in a court a document except when it is necessary to do so for the purposes of, or of a proceeding under or arising out of, this Act'. That could involve an action for damages by a competitor of the company which has placed in the hands of the Commissioner secret and confidential information. It has no limitation to a prosecution. It obviously covers any sort of court action that arises under this Act. There obviously could be a situation where a competitor claiming damages could then forcein contradistinction to the undertakings that were given when these documents were filedthe production of these documents and gain benefit not only for the purposes of this Bill but also for the purposes of business competition or his own economic advantage and so on. 
I would suggest to the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  that the precedent referred to is not phrased in the same words. Certainly this clause goes far beyond that and would make possible an unfortunate situation giving economic advantage to persons who happen to ask questions and get documents produced in this way. 
I wish to add to what has been said. I think if anything this is an insulting suggestion that is now put before the Committee. In fact it is a play with words only to suggest that there has been some real change. What is achieved by taking out the words 'by way of civil action'. The clause then has to be interpreted as it stands and I do not believe the removal of these words will make any difference. The clause does not have a different meaning by taking out the words 'an action' and inserting 'a proceeding' in their place. It is constantly found in many areas of legislation, in divorce legislation for example, that the words 'an action' or 'a proceeding' are often used as alternatives. If anything 'proceeding' is a more general word which would cover an action, perhaps commenced by writ, and various other types of acts or proceedings that are instituted in courts. 
The proposed change achieves nothing. If the amendment is accepted the clause will not say whether the court has to be satisfied on the balance of probabilities or whether it has to be satisfied beyond reasonable doubt. The whole nature of the amendment, in my view, means that it is even more likely that the court will have to be satisfied only on the balance of probabilities. If anything the amendment moves further away from what was suggested previously. The previous clause was rejected by the Committee and I suggest even more strongly that the Committee ought to reject this amendment. 
-As a representative of Victoria I likewise support this and other amendments in the same vein because they are designed not only to remove this curious requirement for 2 Ministers to agree but also to write into the legislation the requirement that there should be consultation with the States and the appropriate State Ministers. There is no doubt that in the Bill as it stands there is a very grave attack upon the important responsibilities of the States. The view of the Victorian Government on this matter is very clear. Its opposition is forthright. I and other Victorian senators on the Opposition side have pleasure, I am sure, in supporting this amendment and others of a like nature. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did the Prime Minister receive a letter, dated 3 July 1974, from the Shire of Woorayl, in Victoria, complaining that the proposed reduction in funds made available from the Australian Government to Local Government bodies for roadmaking purposes in the forthcoming year would (a) result in unemployment in country areas; and (b) have a serious effect on decentralisation. 
Has the Prime Minister replied to the Shire's letter; if so, in what terms. 
Has there been any reduction, and if so, what, in such funds to be provided by the Australian Government for the year 1974-75. 
Does the Prime Minister propose to take any action to avoid the possible consequences referred to in the Shire's letter. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I refer to complaints made by private employment agencies operating in new and growing outer suburbs of Melbourne about the refusal of officers of Commonwealth migrant hostels to facilitate or even to allow such agencies to bring to the notice of migrants avenues for suitable employment and particular known vacancies. In view of the serious current employment situation I ask: Are such hostel officers acting under departmental instructions in refusing that co-operation? Does the Government resent the operation of private agencies in the employment field? Are not newcomers to this country entitled to all the information possible in regard to employment and housing from both government and private sources? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Minister, in a statement made on 9 July 1 974, point out that there were increased differentials between nursing home benefits paid to Victoria and to the other States, due to the fact that the Victorian Government's standards were higher than those in other States. 
Did the Minister then threaten that he would find an alternative system for financing private sector nursing homes, if the States continued to determine standards on an uneven' basis. 
Are State Governments to be denied the right to determine such standards in accordance with the priorities they represent to their electors. 
Do the high standards set in Victoria accord generally with the recommendations of the Victorian Nursing Council. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction aware of the statement made this week by  Mr John  Pietersen, the National  President  of the Housing Industry Association, that a dangerously low level of housing construction exists resulting from the severely restricted financial policies of the Australian Government? Does the Minister agree with  Mr Pietersen  's further criticism that the recent release of funds for housing will in no way sufficiently restore the position or arrest the virtual collapse of the private sector of the industry? What steps does this Government now propose to take to restore the home building rate to the real level of community need? 
-Senator Cameron said in the early part of his speech that he would like to hear more from honourable senators who entered this chamber this year. I have pleasure in helping to satisfy that desire. I suppose he could have included  Senator Hall  in that category. I regret that I probably will not be able to satisfy many more of his desires in this regard. It seems to me that this is a Bill for which a great deal is claimed and by which very little would be achieved. We who are new senators have been told so often by Government members that if only the Opposition would pass the Conciliation and Arbitration Bills wonders would happen and that these Bills were terribly important from the point of view of inflation. In fact the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  claimed in his second reading speech a considerable amount of promise for this Bill and another Bill which he proposes to introduce. He said that this Bill would lead to the rationalisation of our industrial relations system and a dampening of inflation. Nothing I have heard today has indicated to me that either of those things is likely to be achieved by this Bill, even in conjunction with some other Bill. 
The Minister went further than this in his second reading speech. He quoted the policy of the Liberal Party in respect of amalgamations. He said that the Liberal Party would seek to work with the Australian Council of Trade Unions in encouraging industry-based unions. Certainly the Liberal Party has indicated support for the proposition that industry-based unions would provide some improvement in industrial schemes. In my further comments I do not want to discourage the Minister from quoting from Liberal Party policy; he showed good initiative and did something which he should do more often. In that regard I refer him to the latest Liberal-Country Party policy which was presented at the last Federal elections. Our policy is not covered by the few words to which the Minister referred. Our statement of policy which is titled 'The Way Ahead ' states: 
The Liberal and Country Parties encourage industrybased unions in the belief that industrial disputes and strikes will be minimised by industry unions better position to communicate and negotiate with employers and government. 
We recognise that determination by the ACTU to implement its own policy on this matter is essential if it is to be achieved and we will seek early discussions with the ACTU concerning these matters. 
In other words, it is important that the Australian Council of Trade Unions should genuinely stir up the interest of members of unions and point out to them that where unions are perhaps too small they would be better off if amalgamated. In that way the ACTU could induct members of unions to vote for and to support amalgamations in suitable cases. It is not simply a matter of the ACTU saying: 'We just support it'. It should say: 'We certainly encourage amalgamation and think that it ought to be encouraged in appropriate cases'. Whilst I am dealing with the document which sets out the Liberal-Country Party policy I will refer to two other statements matters of policy of the 2 Parties which I think are relevant to this Bill. Under the heading 'Organisations' the document states: 
While memberships of organisations should be voluntary, employees and employers should be positively encouraged to take a responsible and active part in their respective union and industry organisations. 
That means that they ought to be encouraged to vote and to obtain enough information about their unions to know what is to be gained and what is to be lost by an amalgamation; what one union may have in assets and what it may gain in faculties if it amalgamates. Those matters are in the minds of the members of the Party which I represent. When dealing with the subject of the democratic control of organisations our policy stated: 
We will also provide for secret ballots for fundamental alterations to an organisation's constitution where those alterations would significantly affect the rights of members of the organisation. 
-I will come to that shortly, because today an analogy has been made about the differences between these 2 situations. In the policy statement I just read we do not use the word 'compulsory'. At this stage I indicate that I do not think that what  Senator Steele  Hall says about compulsory secret ballots may be the best solution to the problem. We believe that the present Conciliation and Arbitration Act is better in the interests not only of the unions but also of the public. Of course,  Senator Steele  Hall's suggestion would be better than the proposal which the Government advances. 
The Minister claimed that this Bill will have an effect on inflation and that it will be an improvement. Yet today Government speakers have said that this legislation concerns only the internal affairs of unions; that it is concerned merely with the rules and the operation of unions. Honourable senators opposite cannot advance both these arguments at the same time. They cannot argue that this Bill concerns important issues so far as the nation's economy and an effect on inflation are concerned, and at the same time argue that this legislation concerns merely a matter of internal politics and the internal organisation of unions. I invite other Government speakers to tell me how those 2 arguments can hang together in the case which the Government puts in support of this Bill. 
I think that sometimes we should look a little away from our Australian situation. I refer the Senate to an interesting article which recently appeared in the English magazine 'Encounter'. Although it deals with the question of inflation in Britain, I think that one can see in it more and more a growing resemblance between the situations and problems which face the British people and the Australian people. The article was written by E. J. Mishan who is a well known writer and economist. The article is titled 'The New Inflation'. In it the writer analyses the causes of the inflationary situation and he relates them to, among other things, the economic expectations which people have and which they had during this century. People have come to the conclusion that we will keep on getting better and better conditions; that we can keep on making demands and that somehow they will constantly be met. Of course, if we reach the situationwhether it be in Britain or in Australiawhere the economic forces become concentrated more and more in the hands of a few large companies and a few large unions, one can expect that sort of expectation and demand to grow greater. In one part of this article the writer poses the proposition: 'Why Traditional Economic Remedies may now be Ineffective '. He says: 
A small part of the answer is to be found in the larger units of production that are promoted by those narrowlyconceived considerations of efficiency which come to the fore in optimistic periods of rapid economic expansion. Variety and small scale are part of the ecological prescription for systems stability. 
Further on he says: 
We are beginning to realise that the economies-of-scale from larger plant size may be dearly paid for in terms of increased social hazard. 
It may well be that in fact this is the situation not only with companies but also with unions. The idea that economies of scale will necessarily be of great value or that amalgamations necessarily are worth while and desirable and do not swamp the needs of individual parts of that amalgamation is, I think, a factor to be considered. The value of big battalions is, I think, over-stressed, and perhaps for social reasons. That may be a good reason why it should not be too easy or too simple for an amalgamation in unions to be decided on. 
When considering increasing the number of amalgamations we should recognise the situation that amalgamations in the past have been mainly large unions joining other large unions and in fact there has not been pressure to remove smaller unions. There is the matter to which  Senator Button  referred in his speech. If there were some pressing need to amalgamate the number of unions in the Post Office- and I am sure that there is such a need- then surely pressure should have been brought to bear, surely the information should have been given and surely the evidence, facts and arguments should have been advanced more effectively before now by the very powerful leadership of the trade union movement in order to ensure that support for amalgamation was obtained and that the amalgamation was decided on by the unions concerned. 
I quote again from the article by E. J. Mishan to which I have referred because I think it relates to the general situation. He says that in this century the workers in the community have always sought material self-betterment and that they have not always followed the path of economic virtue depicted by liberal economists. He continues: 
Instead these attempts take the form of large-scale group action designed, not to contribute more to the size of the national pie, but simply to appropriate a larger share of it. Each union or organised group will, of course, continue to talk about 'productivity', about 'fairness', about 'the national interest', about 'proper differentials' and 'the structure of the industry', these terms being a part of the political language of negotiation. But each realises that the concessions it can wring from society depend ultimately on the extent of the potential disruption it can inflict on the community. 
One must feel that in this day and following the evident breakdown in the negotiations yesterday the attempts to persuade the unions to accept the view that there ought to be some restraint in claims for increased wages, this is indicative of the situation in Australia. Attempts by Government spokesmen and editorial writers and columnists to arouse the indignation of the public against irresponsibility are often not effectual. I quote for the last time from this article. The writer states: 
For the defiant workmen do not see themselves primarily as members of a larger political community held together by a common history and by a network of rights, customs, and obligations. The very idea of nationhood is made obsolescent by technological progress, by instant international communication, by mass mobility, and by supra-national aspirations arising from a growing consciousness of economic and ecological interdependence. 
The members of the union, on such occasions, see themselves rather as a fraternity asserting their claims against those of others. If the public, following the lead of the government and the press, evinces disapproval of their action, they simply close ranks and derive moral sustenance from their comradeship and their common cause. 
I think this has been found to be the case in Australia. This has been the recent example. I think that this may be the effect of amalgamations into very large organisations which perhaps will no longer represent the interests of the few. It was put to the Senate that amalgamations provide all kinds of benefits. I take the example given of the removal of demarcation disputes.  Senator Button  made considerable play of this. I find myself immediately in disagreement with the figures which he sought to place before the Senate. I think he quoted figures provided by the Australian Bureau of Statistics and suggested that one in seven disputes in Australia was a demarcation dispute. I can find nothing in the statistics to justify that assertion. In the records supplied to me by the Parliamentary Library an interesting set of figures is to be found. Disputes fall into 7 different categories, according to statistics kept by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Wages is one category. Hours of work is another. Leave, pensions, compensation provisions, etc., is another. Managerial policy is another. The next categories are physical working conditions, trade unionism and other disputes. Only one of the 7 categories is trade unionism. In the Bureau's records the definition of trade unionism includes not only demarcation disputes but also other things. It includes disputes concerning the employment of nonunionists. That is hardly a demarcation dispute. Inter-union and intra-union disputes would be demarcation disputes but only half of theminterunion disputes-would be included in the statistics with which we are concerned. Sympathy stoppages in support of employees in another industry are clearly not demarcation disputes. The recognition of union activities may or may not be included. 
If we take the whole of that collection under the heading of trade unionism in the statistics for the March quarter of 1974 and for the 2 years prior to that date, we see that 5,085 disputes were recorded and of them 555 came within the category of 'trade unionism' disputes. That is, 10.9 per cent- almost 1 1 per cent- of the total of those disputes were trade unionism disputes and demarcation disputes constituted only one section of that percentage. It is impossible to know what proportion of that 10.9 per cent related to demarcation disputes. I suggest that it is reasonable to assume that the actual number of demarcation disputes would be not more than 5 per cent of the total number of disputes. So we had an exaggeration of the extent to which demarcation disputes contribute to the total number of disputes in the industrial sector. I think that this point is significant. 
A further factor is that in a situation such as this demarcation disputes will continue if unions amalgamate. The recent troubles in the transport industry were the result of part of a union receiving certain concessions and wage increases. Consequently other parts of the union expected the same increases. It may be said that in certain circumstances amalgamation increases the likelihood of disputes. They will not be called demarcation disputes any longer, but I suggest that amalgamation does not solve the problem of disputes between people who are doing similar jobs but not the same job and who are members of the same union. When unions whose members do quite different jobs are amalgamated no doubt the expectation of those in one particular form of employment where productivity is not great will be the same as the expectation of those members who are in another part or another industry where productivity is greater. If one takes the question of inflation alone, one would expect that amalgamation is more likely to increase rather than reduce inflationary demands. 
I have no doubt that in a number of cases the argument which is advanced, that amalgamation and larger unions will lead to greater service and facilities, is true. In many ways there would be advantages for the small union because of the facilities the amalgamated union will provide. But we must realise that this does not always turn out in fact. I recall that after the creation of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union better service was expected. The amalgamation was voted for by a small number of members, but it became a fact. The  President  of the Amalgamated Metal 
Workers Union, speaking of his members complaints at the Queensland State conference of the union on 23 February 1973, said: 
There are complaints that they are not receiving service that they had been accustomed to in the past. Such complaints must be given very serious attention. We must also make further efforts to have greater participation by the rank and file in branch affairs. 
That matter becomes clearly a greater problem in a very large union when the participation of individuals may well be ineffective. 

 -Senator Sir Magnus Cormack reminds me that shop stewards in larger unions gain more significance and greater power, whereas one expects in a small union a much greater sense of empathy - 
'Empathy' was the word, not subservience- between the union secretary and officials and the members than in a very large union of which the leader is perhaps a large capitalist gaining large capitalist fees. I mention the well known example of  Mr Mitchell  in Victoria. 
I suggest that the concentration on amalgamations of which we have heard so much and which is to be found in this Bill- a cure-all for problems- is a great danger because it tends to ignore the dissociation between unions and their members. In support of this proposition I refer to an article called 'The Way to Industrial Peace' written by  Mr E.  P. Kelsall of the Australian Administrative Staff College. In this article he deals with major areas of psychological sources of conflict and problems in our society. He says that whether it is a capitalist or communist society these problems are to be found. Part of the article states: 
The arena of industrial relations could be a focal point for a constructive attack on these deeper problems ... Indeed, the dissociation between unions and their members is probably the most neglected factor in present-day industrial relations and the cause of immense waste of time and effort. If unions amalgamate and grow larger they will become even more distant from their members in work places and less attuned to their feelings and attitudes. Unions would be wise to counter this trend by positive improvements of organisation and communication; and employers would be wise to facilitate such improvements instead of trying to keep the unions away from their employees as they have usually done in the past. 
I suggest that that is a fair statement. I suggest also that as far as this Bill is concerned one has to be cautious before making it very easy for amalgamations which increase the size of unions without the members being fully aware of what it is about.  Senator Hall  's proposed amendment does not cover that matter. There will be an excellent opportunity for the members to know the cases for and against the amalgamation.  Senator Button  in his speech said that the Bill contains a provision that would enable the amalgamation proposals to be put in union magazines and therefore would be prior warning of the proposed amalgamation. That could be very good. That might well be an addition to what is in the existing Act. No doubt it would have a lot of support. But the Government wants to put something into the Act and to take away the very provisions that enable cases for and against amalgamations to be brought before the members. 
The ballot proposals in this Bill are, I suggest, not satisfactory. The result of a ballot could be determined by a very small percentage. The existing Act provides that half the members of a union must vote, which means that just over 25 per cent of the members of a union are required to vote in favour for an amalgamation to succeed. If in fact- I suggest it is the fact- most amalgamations that are desirable involve small unions, then one would expect that under the existing Act or proposal it would be easier for the union to inform its members adequately on the facts and arguments. In the second reading speech the Minister makes a somewhat despairing cry when he says: 'You must put this into the Act; otherwise you will have de facto amalgamations being achieved outside the existing arbitral machinery'. What he is suggesting is that unions may do it in fact and therefore the law must follow and legalise it. But I suggest that the real answer is that the trade union movement should be more constructive in demonstrating the value of amalgamations, and therefore the existing provisions should be retained. 
Showing to the members the value of the amalgamation. If the amalgamation is desirable, surely it is not difficult to bring before the members of the union a case setting out the advantages to be gained in the amalgamation. 
-Has it been done? That is, of course, a matter for the trade union movement. 

 - Senator Milliner is suggesting that I should be a propagandist for the Austraiian Council of Trade Unions. I have not been asked. I am afraid I cannot do that until I am asked. I suggest that there are plenty of able men from himself down who could put these factors before the unions if there is a good case for an amalgamation. Reference has been made already to the provision in this Bill which enables a small group of people- 250 members or 20 per cent of the membership, whichever is the less- to make sure that a ballot goes to the members. Therefore, a small group of people can bring before the members of a union a ballot the result of which can be decided by a very small percentage. This has been criticised by  Senator Greenwood.  I support the criticism. It seems to me to be an attempt to go behind the backs of union leaders and to ensure amalgamations in some cases where they are not in the interests of the members. It would be amalgamation by stealth and by apathy. I think it is not desirable. 
I suggest that this Bill is not in the public interest. I make no apology for saying that the public interest is something to be considered, as well as the interests of the members of the unions. 
It is quite true that in this country the other elements of the industrial picture, the companies and similar undertakings, are already under very great control, whether it be as to mergers, foreign capital or the structure of their organisations. These matters are important because they affect the economy of the country. They are controlled under legislation such as Companies Acts and other legislation. No doubt there will be more legislation of this sort. But in the case of the trade union movement I suggest that it cannot be denied that it does have a significant influence on the community and the economy. It is important that members of the trade union movement should be well aware of the significance of amalgamations which very often are highly desired by powerful and ambitious men. I suggest, therefore, that this Bill should be defeated. 
Does the Minister representing the Treasurer agree that any prior and unauthorised disclosure of government decisions on devaluation is a breach of ministerial responsibility or a breach for which ministerial responsibility should be accepted? Did such prior disclosure occur last evening? Has any inquiry been instituted to ascertain how such disclosure occurred, the result of such prior disclosure and whether anyone benefited from it? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, relates to the proposal of the Australian Government to build premises for the Australian Radiation Laboratory at Lower Plenty Road, Yallambie, Victoria, within 10 miles of the centre of Melbourne, despite the strong objections of local residents and their progress association. Is the Minister aware of the growing concern of the objectors at the threatened danger to the environment of this partly rural and partly residential area and the damage to the amenities of the district through the wholesale destruction of trees and the creation of traffic problems, quite apart from any health hazards that might result? Does the Government intend to proceed with this proposal in the light of the objections and the highly critical environmental impact statement prepared by the Preston Institute of Technology? 
I wish also to say some words on this matter. I speak as a new senator who now has before him the report of a committee which sets out clearly the circumstances and facts and makes clear that the allegations which  Dr J.  F. Cairns made previously are not justified by the facts. I hope that this report will lead to some reconsideration of the matter. The senators who have spoken already have set out the salient points. I refer to one matter. When the Bills were last debated in the House of Representatives the Opposition indicated its attitude. My understanding is that the Government then indicated that it appreciatedthat was the word used- the attitude of the Opposition, but in the Senate it saw an opportunity to defeat the proposal to bring the matter back before the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control. It rings clear from the Committee's report, which I think is a courageous and sensible report, that the Bills should go back to the Committee and be reconsidered. I feel that if a reasonable debate on this matter had taken place some months or so ago in the Senate and if the facts reported by the Committee had been before the Senate then, the result might have been different. One would hope that in considering the facts at least one more senator would have seen the advantage of referring these 2 Australian Industry Development Corporation Bills to the Committee, which had already done a great deal of work. Surely the Senate, which rightly regards its committees as a valuable part of its institution, should take every opportunity to see that they do not do half the work and stop there, but make sure that the work is completed. 
I draw this report to the attention not only of the Senate but also of the Press of this country, which took a critical attitude towards the Opposition a month or so ago when these Bills were defeated. I think that the Press should take proper note of this report and likewise of the attitude which  Senator Cotton  expressed at that time. Despite the defeat of the Bills he tried to refer the Bills back to the Committee so that it could complete its deliberations. I suggest that the duty of a government in this country is, first and foremost, to go ahead with its legislative program, to try to get its Bills through and to cooperate with others who serve in the government of this country, whether they be members of the Opposition Parties or members of the Government Party. It is the Government's duty to get its legislation through the Parliament. On that last occasion one certainly had the feeling that the Government was more concerned with setting up the first leg of a double dissolution proposition than with getting its Bills through. It took the opportunity at that time to have the Bills defeated rather than have them referred to the Committee for a short period. 
My assessment of the Senate is that it is a co-operative body and ought to be such. That applies to both sides of the Senate. I hope that we have not heard the end of this matter and that the attitude that the Opposition is expressing now will be considered by the Government. I hope that the attitude which the Committee so clearly brings forward will lead to a change of attitude on these Bills by the Government. 
Is the Postmaster-General aware of complaints by the Australian Mail Contractors Association that they are forced to continue their contractual services at a rate which, over the last 12 months, has been so eroded as to be financially inequitable? Further, is the Minister aware of complaints that the Department's system of tendering is outmoded and unfair? Do the members of this Association provide a useful service, particularly in rural areas? Will urgent steps be taken to meet their complaints? 
-I support the remarks of  Senator Carrick  and  Senator Baume  about the Sewerage Agreements Bill. As they have said, a much more direct and overall approach is required by the Government to the basic question of sewerage provision which is so necessary in the major residential areas of 
Australia. This Bill is to allow a small addition to the moneys provided in 1973-74. It adds something less than $8m to the moneys available. It could be called just a drop in the bucket when one considers the whole scope and necessity for money and sewerage works in the major cities. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh),  who represents the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  in this chamber, made in his second reading speech 2 statements with which I think we would all agree. He said: 
We have no cause for pride in the quality of services when millions of gallons of raw sewage is pumped each week into the seas off our coast, bays and inlets, metropolitan rivers and creeks. 
The pollution of our seas and inland waters is a major issue which is closely tied up with the provision of sufficient money to sewer our city areas. We recognise that in the main urban areas about one-sixth of the houses are not sewered. The Minister went on to make a statement which is of great significance to the whole problem. He said: 
They re-enforce the point that these great problems will not be solved without heavy capital spending. Spending on sewerage works soaks up an enormous amount of capital, both for the expansion of services to meet growing populations and to chop out the backlog in services which now exists. It means that the States and local government cannot tackle the backlog and at the same time keep up with new services without strong support from the Australian Government. 
We suggest that those statements by the Minister in his second reading speech are true.  Major support  has to be given and I agree with other senators who have spoken in this debate that that major support should be in the form substantially of grants and not loans which add to the long term indebtedness of the authorities that have to deal with this problem. 
I speak particularly of the position in the Melbourne metropolitan area. Over the years the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works has shown a great deal of imagination in endeavouring to make plans and cover the various possibilities in providing for the needs of a growing population. Since 1897 the Board has endeavoured to meet these needs within its financial capacity. In 1958 it made a start on the construction of the Brooklyn pumping station to replace the overloaded original Spotswood pumping station. The Board has since sewered well over 150,000 houses in the metropolitan area, including nearly 100,000 since the Brooklyn pumping station was commissioned in 1964. As a result of the necessity to look ahead the Board of Works has at all stages realised that the Werribee farm, which had treated the bulk of the city's waste since 1897, could not continue to handle the ever-growing amount which was required to be treated. Therefore, in 1965 work began on the multi-million dollar south-eastern sewerage system which is designed to serve the rapidly growing areas east and south-east of Melbourne. This system, which is an expensive one and is still in the course of construction, will ultimately discharge purified waste water into Bass Strait near Cape Schanck. Even the introduction of this system, with all that it will do for the southern and south-eastern suburbs of Melbourne, will not overcome the problem. 
Consequently, the Board 's major projects now involve, firstly, the expansion of a $57m program on the Dandenong Valley trunk sewer and contributory mains and, subsequently, the new developments in the western part of Melbourne -the north-west intercepting sewer costing $66m and a $200m sewage treatment plant at the Werribee Farm, which will be known as the Western Purification Plant. It has been pointed out by  Mr Alan  Croxford,  Chairman  of the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works, that these recent developments are by far greater and more expensive than any developments which have been carried out by the Board in the whole of the period since 1897. All these things are not luxuries but necessities, and they are necessary to treat the sewage which the further development of Melbourne will bring about. Therefore, all these proposals must be given close attention, and finance for them must be found. As has been pointed out, even with the developments in the south-east of Melbourne, the build-up of the sewage flow to the Werribee Farm will soon be too much to be treated entirely. Consequently, all these developments require urgent attention and should be speeded up. As at April 1974 155,000 dwellings in Melbourne were still unsewered. This fact is constantly in the Board 's mind. 
In the last week or so I have had correspondence with the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works on another question, lt seemed to me that much could be gained, in this time of growing unemployment, if there were some taking up of the slack by the expediting of MMBW programs. This could be achieved by making further moneys available to the Board so that it could hasten its development of headworks and other things which are necessary for the long term development of Melbourne. I asked 2 questions of the Board. Firstly, I asked: 
How much is required to extend the existing sewerage facilities to the outer areas of Melbourne? 
In effect, I asked: How much would be required to cover the whole area in future? The answer was: 
It is estimated that $126m (in June 1974 values) will be required to be spent on sewerage works in the years 1 974-75 to 1 982-83 to overcome the sewerage backlog. 
That money is not for additional matters; it is to overcome the backlog in sewerage. Obviously there is a great need for moneys to be made available. I asked a second question. It was: 
Assuming that additional funds are made available for sewer extensions, could employment be offered to persons now out of work due to the current economic crisis? 
The answer was: 
Yes. It is thought that up to 200 persons could be offered employment with the Board, but not before January 1975. The interim period will be required by the Board to prepare the necessary designs for such sewer extensions as may be possible in the light of additional funds. 
I point out that, even if the Government decides to make available additional funds to create further work for persons out of employment, there must be a time lag. Obviously these things must be done at an early stage so that the earliest effect on unemployment can be achieved. I think that this area of sewage treatment is an area which is fairly labour intensive and an area in which one could expect, if the Government were prepared to make further grants available to the States and to the semi-governmental institutions, further employment will result. The Budget allocates $104m to be spent through the States on sewerage proposals, but we cannot ignore the enormity of the task which is before the country. Budget Paper No. 8 'Urban and Regional Development', dealing with this problem, states: 
An important component of the program is the upgrading of trunk mains, headworks and treatment works to ensure that effluent is adequately treated to protect areas where outfalls occur from environmental degradation. 
It also states: 
Present estimates suggest that it will take about 10 years to overcome the sewerage backlog to the extent that all existing dwellings are served and all new dwellings being built can be connected immediately to a complete and environmentally acceptable sewerage system. The present best estimate of the total cost of the works program needed to attain this objective is about $3, 800m (in June 1974 prices). The contribution required from the Australian Government is likely to be about 40 percent, or $ 1,500m. 
I believe it would be wise for us to bear in mind that, even in the terms of the Government's statement there, that amount to be provided by the Federal Government obviously is not half the amount which it is contemplated must be provided from all sources.  Senator Carrick  said that the rates of the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works may rise by 30 per cent shortly. When one sees the statement which  Mr 
Croxford, the  Chairman,  made on this matter, one appreciates that the Federal Government is not yet doing what is needed in this area. He said: 
If the public demand more water, pollution controls and more sewerage then the public has to pay for it. 
The only other way to finance these is for the governments to provide direct cash grants. They are not doing that and so the public must pay instead. 
He also said that the works programs scheduled for this year would get about $72m from public loans, $28m from Federal Government loans, $22m in State Treasury advances, $5m in revenue from Board owned properties currently leased and about $3m from acreage levies charged to sub-dividers. Consequently we see that the Federal contribution is but a small part of the amount which the Board of Works must raise. The Board has an indebtedness of about $700m and has to pay 58c out of every dollar to service those loan repayments. The State Parliament of Victoria recently passed legislation which will allow the debt to rise to $ 1 ,000m, but that means only that the inflationary effect of greater rates, the payments which must be met by the citizens of Melbourne and the amounts which must be paid all the time in interest payments are the items which are rising and which will continue to rise if the loan is increased to $ 1 ,000m. I join my colleagues in saying that there are 2 changes, among others, that are needed. There is a need for greater grants, not loans, and there is a need to increase not the present indebtedness of the semi-governmental authorities but rather the contribution which the Commonwealth will make to service what is an essential aspect of our quality of life. 
There also is a great necessity for long range programs of three or five years duration. We can arrange a 3-year program when it comes to roads so why can we not do it in relation to sewerage. Surely this is an area in which we are even more able to estimate because we can judge the number of people and dwellings to be serviced and we know the existing backlog. Surely this is an area where long range plans should be available and further government moneys should be available. I join in supporting the Bill because it represents some small assistance in meeting the need but I also join my colleagues in saying that the plans which the Government has at the moment are not adequate for the great necessities which this problem raises in all our urban communities in Australia. I hope that the Government will think again on this matter and carry out the promise it made to the people. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of the concern of academics at the continuing delay in the establishment of an academic salaries tribunal as proposed by  Mr Justice  Campbell in the Report 'Inquiry into Academic Salaries', and at the disadvantage they are suffering in this period of high and rising inflation. 
When does the Minister propose to introduce legislation on this subject. 
I would like to speak to this motion because certain comments have been made by  Senator Greenwood  which at this time should be clarified. As the honourable senator rightly said, he has had the oportunity only of reading the first couple of pages of this report and the impression should not be left that the matters which he properly raised have not been considered by the Committee. I wish as a member of the Committee to support what has been said by  Senator James  McClelland and to say that the Committee has certainly considered the questions which  Senator Greenwood  has raised. 
-I am denied. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I want to raise with the Senate a matter which I think should not go beyond this day unanswered. It was raised this morning when the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs was put down in the Senate and when a motion was moved that the Senate take note of the report. I shall not speak about the report to which I am happy to be a signatory. Nor shall I speak about the debate. But remarks were made this morning by  Senator Greenwood  in relation to the procedures which had been adopted by the Committee. I think those remarks should not go unattended this evening lest there be- 
This is a matter on which I am expressing my view. This morning  Senator Greenwood,  quite rightly, pointed out that he had not read more than 2 pages of the report. Obviously he was uninformed about the nature and details of the report. But 3 things were said then which I think should not go uncorrected. In the first place  Senator Greenwood  asked whether there would be a sufficient number of the report available for people to see. I am sure I speak for all members of the Committee when I say the Committee realises that the report will be of considerable public interest and that there will be a requirement for a considerable number of copies. The Committee is aware of this and it has taken steps to see that there are such a number of copies. I am assured by the secretary of the Committee that copies will be kept ahead of demand and that they will be available for the public. 
In addition it was suggested by  Senator Greenwood  that copies of the Bill would not be available. I know that on one occasion copies were not available and this was unfortunate. Of course copies of the Bill certainly are available with this report because, as honourable senators will have noticed, a copy was annexed to the report. Therefore it will be quite simple for people to consider the report and the Bill. So I think the feeling which  Senator Greenwood  had is answered because of the fact that the Committee had these matters very much in mind. 
Perhaps the second matter which the honourable senator mentioned is of a more serious nature. He expressed the view that it was unfortunate that the Senate Committee had not dealt with the inquiry generally but that in its report it had dealt only with the clauses of the Bill.  Senator Greenwood  also said that the Committee limited itself to the clauses and that it had too narrowly construed its role. I think when one looks at the report one will see clearly that that is not so. In fact, the Committee has already brought down an interim report in which it dealt with and quoted from the general submissions. It summarised those submissions and the various proposals which had been put up by members of the public. 
The number is set out in the report. It is something like 109. We received a large number of letters and quite a considerable amount of public information. Or course, the interim report was brought down so that honourable senators could read the submissions which had been considered and studied by members of the Committee, including the new members. I believe that I have read all the important submissions and all the evidence which was given before the Committee. I believe that while considering the clauses of the Bill we had very much in our minds the inquiry generally and the submissions. Of course, the fact is that when one looks at the 3 Bills which have been presented to the Senate on this subject and if one reads the submissions, time and again one will see that the submissions and ideas have gone into the Bills. They have come in and varying Bills have shown the varying results of the submissions. 
In its whole consideration of the Bill the Committee has looked at the submissions. It has kept them in mind. I believe that it has produced results which will satisfy the great bulk of the submissions which were made. I suppose we could have given a general treatise on the submissions which were made. We could have presented to the Senate perhaps a report of 140 pages instead of 40 pages. But we believe that what we have submitted is really succinct. It covers the submissions which have been made. So I do not think it can be said that the inquiry has not been reported on. 
The third thing which  Senator Greenwood  said was that people feel let down because this Committee did not ask for further general submissions and did not advertise. Or course the Committee did not advertise. When it was formed immediately before the recess it was given instructions. It was told to report back in a month's time. It was well publicised and well known that the Committee had been re-formed for that purpose. The Committee knew that it had the general submissions and that it would get detailed submissions on the Bill from various groups and organisations. It did that. When the secretary of the Committee was asked he encouraged organisations to write to the Committee. They did this and every such submission was looked into and taken into account by members of the Committee 
I think there was some mild criticism because the Committee had a number of lawyers before it and because it did not invite or seek out witnesses while it was carrying out this stage of its investigation into the clauses of the Bill. The Committee had before it a number of people of very capable ability who are lawyers. They are familiar with the material involved in family law. They assisted the Committee in the work which it was really doing. That was the purpose for which the Committee was formed. It did that. The background submissions which had been made were in the minds of all members of the Committee. Finally, it was said that there was blame lying on the Committee for not having done this. If there is any blame I am sure I and any other member of the Committee will readily accept it. We believe we have done a pretty massive job in a matter of weeks. We believe these things ought to be brought to a head at a reasonably early stage. We believe indeed that it is better to put an end to investigations and to come forward with suggestions that might do something to take away some of the heat and shed some light on the public controversies about this subject. I feel that before this night ends we should clarify those criticisms, which I think are illfounded. 

 -Mr President, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I  present 3 petitions, identical in wording and from 88, 110 and 143 citizens of Australia respectively in the following terms: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the reduction of the allowable deduction of education expenses under Section 82J of the Income Tax Assessment Act from $400 to $ 1 50 is $50 below the 1 956-57 figure. 
That this reduction will impose hardships on many parents who have children attending school, whether nongovernment or government; and particularly on parents with more than one child at school. 
That this reduction will further restrict the freedom available to parents to make a choice of school for their children. 
That some parents who have chosen to send their children to a non-government school will have to withdraw their children and send them to government schools already overcrowded and understaffed. 
That the parents to benefit most relatively from educational income tax deductions, in the past and even more in the future, are the parents of children in government schools and this has a divisive effect in the Australian community. 
That parents should be encouraged by the Australian Government to exercise freedom of choice of the type of school they wish for their children. The proposed reduction means an additional financial penalty is imposed on parents who try to exercise this choice and discourages them from making an important financial contribution to Australian education over and above what they contribute through taxation. 
That an alternative system, a tax rebate system, could be adopted as being more equitable for all parents with children at school. 
To compensate for the losses that will follow from the proposed reduction and to help meet escalating educational costs faced by all families your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should take immediate steps to restore educational benefits to parents, at least at the 1973-1974 level either by increasing taxation deductions or through taxation rebates. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received and the first petition was read. 
I ask my question of the Minister representing the Special Minister of State. My question relates to the confusion which has arisen in relation to the procedures laid down for applications for financial assistance by local government bodies to the Grants Commission. I ask: Does the Minister agree that there is some confusion in the brochure forwarded to local government bodies which refers, at one point, to the Prime Minister's statement that applications for assistance with single purpose or specific developmental projects will not be the concern of the Grants Commission, yet advises that councils may identify particular expenditure or revenue disabilities likely to justify their claim for financial assistance? Does he agree that in Victoria at least, certain councils have enumerated specific projects and have received grants for these purposes while other councils have refrained from doing so and have suffered accordingly? Is he prepared to re-examine and clarify the brochure to ensure that obscurities will be removed so as to assist in the preparation of applications for the forthcoming year? 
-I desire to say one or two things on this matter because there has been an attack today by  Senator Hall  on the accuracy and the morals of members of the Opposition. I think it is clear now when we hear the accurate reading of the article which appeared that what was said by  Senator Rae  and what appears in the article is the dead accurate truth. What appears is what should be known to the people of Tasmania. I think that someone else should stand up and say that honourable senators on this side respect  Senator Rae  for the way in which he has supported thoroughly the interests of his State. He has been denigrated by  Senator Hall  in a highly unsatisfactory way. 
Two things that  Senator Hall  said may have a little more than general application. He stated that if he voted for the motion last night which called on the Government to provide further moneys for Tasmania and further support, that might have done damage to Tasmania. What can that mean but that the Government would have taken out some petty revenge on Tasmania if the Senate last night had carried that motion? I think that it is not capable of any other interpretation. If  Senator Hall  thinks that, he should have had the moral courage to stand firm against that feeling, vote for the motion on its merits and put the Government to the test. Would it have taken revenge against Tasmania if the Senate had carried that motion last night? I suggest that it really should have made him vote the other way. 
The last thing I say is this: He has attacked the morals of Opposition senators- he is not sure what are the low morals of the Opposition- for taking their stance last night. He says that he is not sure but that he will investigate. Yet he is prepared to attack. If he intends to have the name liberal' in his Party and if he intends to have the idea of 'liberal ' in bis policy and philosophy he must find out the facts before he attacks the morals of the people who sit on this side of the chamber. I suggest that he ought to find out the facts not only about articles that are written but also about the motives of people who sit here before he makes these attacks which have no basis.  Senator Devitt  has read out something which he has received. I do not know why he has done that because surely it indicates that people in Tasmania feel strongly about the lack of support that they receive from this Government. I suggest to the honourable senators opposite who have spoken that they ought to get their facts straight. Of course they are unhappy about the reaction they have received from Tasmania to their miserable attitude. That is the reason why the attack was made on  Senator Rae  today. 

 -Mr President, I wish to ask a supplementary question. 
-Has the Minister representing the Prime Minister noted the result of the election for the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly wherein the Country-Liberal Party achieved a complete victory and the Australian Labor Party is unlikely to win any seats. Does the Minister see any consistent pattern of disaster in this and other recent elections? Does he also pass off this electoral failure as a result of lack of electors' interest, as he has done in the past, or will he not now agree that it represents the absolute repudiation of Australian Labor Party performances in Government? 
I would like to refer to some other aspects of this clause which, to my mind, are highly confusing. Clause 8 (1) states: 
The Minister may, by writing under his hand, give directions to the Commission with respect to the exercise of its powers or the performance of its functions but, except as provided by sub-section (2), shall not give such a direction with respect to a particular project. 
The first part of that sub-clause contains a particularly sweeping power which is given to the Minister in relation to the Commission's functions. In other words, all the functions under this Bill are subject to the directions of the Minister. If we are setting up an Australian Film Commission which has any reality or any powers, surely we cannot say in one clause that every one of its powers is subject to the direction of the 
Minister except, as it states, with respect to a particular project. Sub-clause (2) states: 
The Minister may give a direction to the Commission with respect to a film, or proposed film, of a kind referred to in sub-paragraph 5  (l)(b)(i),(ii)or(iii). 
I am sorry. We are on clause 7, not clause 8. 
-This is the clause which I, in too much eagerness, sought to discuss when the previous clause was before the Committee. In his remarks  Senator Greenwood  referred substantially to sub-clause (2). In my submission, both sub-clauses (1) and (2) are entirely objectionable. Sub-clause (2), to which  Senator Greenwood  was primarily referring, gives enormous power in regard to the directions which the Minister may give. If in fact what is intended by the clause is merely to repeat the power given in paragraph (b) of clause 5(1), which deals with the making, promotion and distribution and exhibiting of films being subject to the approval of the Minister, the clause could be regarded as unnecessary. But quite obviously it goes further than that. It does not simply provide for the Minister's approval for the creation of a film; it provides for the Minister to give a direction to the Commission and the type of direction is not described. It must be taken as being a total power in accordance with a production being undertaken at any time and in regard to whatever may be done to a film or proposed film. Therefore the power conferred on the Minister merits the strength of  Senator Greenwood's  objection. 
Under clause 8 ( 1 ) the Minister may, by writing under his hand, give directions to the Commission with respect to the exercise of its powers or the performance of its functions but, except as provided by sub-clause (2), shall not give such a direction with respect to a particular project. I point out that the term 'particular project' is in no way defined in the Bill. Nobody can say what is a particular project. Is it a particular film? Is it a particular series of films? Is it a particular organisation or arrangement with some other country? What is a particular project? That term is left in a most sloppy manner and undefined. But the worst thing about this sub-clause is that the Minister may give directions with respect to the exercise of the Commission's powers. All of its powers are given under this Bill and the performance of its functions are set out in the Bill. 
Let me give examples of that. The Minister has power to give directions in relation to clause 6, which sets out the powers of the Commission. So the Minister can give directions in relation to the guarantee of repayment of funds, the acquiring of rights to films, the providing of financial assistance to producers, its acting as a trustee, and its accepting gifts. The Commission will no longer have all of these real powers at all; it will be always subject to the direction of the Minister. This is true not only in relation to its powers but also in relation to its functions, such as the holding of meetings, which is dealt with in clause 27, the staff it employs, which is dealt with in clause 28, and the moneys it expends as well as the control of its moneys, which are dealt with in clause 32. All of the powers given to the Commission throughout this Bill become a nullity because, under this clause, they are all subject to the direction of the Minister. It means that we will have a Commission that does not have any independent powers in any part of its functions. I suggest that this clause is highly undesirable. It takes away from the Commission its status as an independent body which makes decisions in a nonpolitical and non-propaganda way. I suggest, therefore, that the clause is entirely objectionable and should be dropped from the Bill. 
-I support the amendment which proposes the deletion of sub-clauses (2) and (3) of clause 1 1. This is a tremendously wide provision. Clause 11(1) provides that the Commission shall keep itself informed whether by the collection of statistics, the conduct of market research or otherwise, of all aspects of making, promoting, distributing and exhibiting films in Australia. Nothing could be wider than the whole area in relation to which the Commission is to keep statistics. This, of course, is very satisfactory. Sub-clause (2) entitles the Commission to obtain from any person any information- this could involve, of course, a complete attempt at obtaining the informationof a business, and that information may be of tremendous value to other competitors. This sub-clause requires that person to disclose the course of his activity, whether or not it is relevant to the purpose of the Australian Film Commission. 

 Senator Hall obviously recognises the width of this provision because he proposes to move an amendment but would not provide a satisfactory way of dealing with it. He proposes to add to the sub-clause the words 'being a matter relating to the distribution or exhibition of films'. I may say that naturally the information may relate to those things, but  Senator Hall's  proposed amendment will not cover the real difficulty of this clause which takes away all the rights of the individual to refuse to disclose matters which, whatever may be the purpose of the Commission, may be of extreme danger to an individual in his business activity. It is, I think, an infringement of a great number of rights enjoyed by the citizens of this community when they are forced to disclose 'any information'. I suppose they may even be forced to disclose information which may incriminate them or which may cause competitors to have an unfair advantage over them. It may be information which may allow the Commission in its own business undertakings -under this Bill it is entitled to carry on its own business undertakings- to steal a march and thereby gain benefits in an economic sense over that particular person. I suggest to the Committee that there is no purpose in having this provision. 
If sub-clause (2) remains in the Bill, naturally it has to be followed by the requirements of subclause (3) which provides for the imposition of a penalty on any person who does not comply. This clause provides for further offences and further disabilities on the individual. I suggest that it is a great breach of the rights of individuals in the community. Its provisions are too wide and should be rejected. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Postmaster-General receive a telegram from  Sir Albert  Chadwick, C.M.G., forwarded on behalf of the major users of overseas telecommunications services, urging the Australian Government to follow the recommendation of  Sir James  Vernon that action to merge the Overseas Telecommunications Commission with the proposed Australian Telecommunications Corporation be deferred, at least until the Corporation has settled down and become a fully effective operating entity. 
Did the request originate from a meeting held in Melbourne on 13 September 1974 of twenty organisations, which are major users or the services of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission. 
Will the Postmaster-General take any action to meet this request. 
I enter this debate with much the same experience of this matter as  Senator Button.  I only say to the 2 wise men who have just spoken and who are no doubt somewhat fixed in their views: So far as  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson is concerned 1 just want immediately to disabuse his arithmetic and to assure him I am one person who has long felt that there is only one place for the new and permanent parliament house, and that is Capital Hill. But I think that we should look back at the arguments of the leader, if 1 may call him so, or the first follower who has set out in front to try out the ground,  Senator Button. His  arguments, if I may dignify them in that way, fell into 2 categories. The first might be roughly described as theory, and the second as practice.  Senator Button  at all times claimed to want to identify with the people. I think that he really identified with small men, small aspirations and small vision when he saw the new and permanent parliament house sitting on some low place on the same line as other buildings. 
I am not here to represent  Sir Robert  Menzies. He is now one of my constituents, but I have about 3 million others. 
Who knows what would be revealed but for the secrecy of the ballot? If  Senator Button  wants the new and permanent parliament house to be situated so low, there is an excellent site for him, and that is the airport which, because of fogs, is obviously unsatisfactory as an airport in every way throughout most periods of the year. He can be assured that the site could be much better used for a new and permanent parliament house. It obviously is of no use whatsoever as an airport. He comes before us with the idea that we must not have a mediaeval view. Why should we have a mediaeval view? What has this matter got to do with a mediaeval view? The fact that we put the new and permanent parliament house on a high spot, out of fog, and enable it to be seen and used by people is, I think, useful in itself. 
When  Senator Button  suggests that on other occasions the Parliament should assert its superiority at various times it is clear that he does not believe in this idea of identity with the people. It comes to him only when it suits him. I suggest to the Senate that a new building does not dominate the city because it is the highest building in it. This is not a city of so many high hills. If you are going to do that and you put the new and permanent parliament house where the towers are being erected on Black Mountain you might have a point. The new and permanent parliament house should be put on an elevation which is clearly one which can be viewed in the city but not one which dominates it or is separated from the people. It is suggested that in a city like Canberra a parliament house situated on this spot is somewhat closeted with the people and close to the people. In fact, Canberra has a sense of isolation in itself, and it will not make the slightest difference so far as that is concerned, whether the new and permanent parliament house is put on one hill or another. 
I can only say that it has always seemed to me that to start putting quickly, as  Senator Button  said, a parliament house on Camp Hill is to create an outhouse for the existing parliamentary building. It will not create a building which in its own sense and its own features will be a matter cf pride for the Australian people. So 1 reject the so-called theoretical argument that somehow the aspirations of the people would be ignored by having a building on a fairly high and fine position in this city. Nor do I accept the fact that because some roads have been put in and because certain officials have taken certain steps that might make more difficult the siting of the new and permanent parliament house on Capital Hill, this is anything which ought to restrict this Parliament from doing what it thinks is right and in the best interests of the people. 
It seems to me that there is one essential argument. Sure, we want to consider the aspirations of the people. We want to see the people uplifted and to have higher aspirations. We want to improve that aspect. I see nothing inconsistent in having a building, which is their national Parliament, in a prominent position in this city. But surely Parliament, above all things, must assert its dominance over the administration and over the public servants. It must assert what members of Parliament have indicated in debates that I have read. They have indicated a strong preference for the building of the new and permanent parliament house on Capital Hill. 
-You will not achieve that by a building, but I think that you will go a long way towards achieving that if you make your own decision and are not set aside from that decision by decisions or recommendations or beguiling picture books produced by the National Capital Development Commission in order to try to divert you from that view. We are here to make what we think is the best decision regarding the best spot for the new and permanent parliament house. Surely we are not here to be prejudged or pre-empted by decisions of public servants in the past. In my mind, the top of Capital Hill is the best spot for the new and permanent parliament house. The building ought to be a reasonably clear building that can be seen and appreciated around the city, not one of a cluster of many buildings. For those reasons, amongst others, I think that Capital Hill is the site for the new and permanent parliament house. 
-The Family Law Bill 1974 is a Bill of the greatest importance to the Australian people. It is of considerable importance in the moral and economic senses and also to the lives of many thousands of people who have been awaiting the appearance of this Bill before the Senate. We must, I think, recall that this is the first major occasion since the Matrimonial Causes Act was adopted in 19S9 on which the legislation has been thoroughly reviewed. During the debate on this Bill we must bear in mind that there is also in existence the Marriage Act which covers many areas that are complementary to the Family Law Bill. I understand that some amendments to the Marriage Act are in contemplation. They may be very necessary to complement the changes which will be made in the family law as provided in this Bill. 
It is, as has been said, a matter on which a free vote will be exercised on all sides of the chamber. This is a matter in relation to which we in conscience must give very great consideration. This applies not only to consideration of the Bill but also to the proposed amendments which are complex but highly essential. 
The Act that was passed in 1959 was a landmark in its time because it brought together the Commonwealth legislation in this field, whereas previously such legislation had been a subject for the State laws. At that stage the Commonwealth took unto itself the powers which the Constitution had given it and created a uniform divorce procedure and law throughout Australia. In this Bill, and particularly in the amendments which the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs proposes, there are suggestions that the Commonwealth should go further in exercising its powers over marriage, divorce and matrimonial affairs. The present Act stands, as I say, as a landmark in its time, but it has proved to be defective in operation. It is essentially admitted on all sides that there are provisions in that Act which must be changed to bring justice to this area of the law. 
I think it must be said early in the debate that the family as we know it in Australia is not broken, as some people seem to think; it is in fact a greater institution than it has ever been in this country. While the divorce rate has risen in Australia rather slowly and not in accord with many other developed western countries whose divorce rates are much higher, nonetheless there is every indication that families and marriage are institutions which are not upheld in the strongest regard by the great majority of the Australian people. It was said in 1 959, when the ground of 5 years separation was introduced, that this would open the floodgates and it would cause the destruction of marriage. Many of the arguments which one hears in various quarters today can be read in the debates and in the writings of 1959. They reappear again. But in 1959 and since then separation did not open the floodgates. 
Whereas, for example, in 1967, 17 per cent of the petitioners were using the ground of separation, in 1971 it had been reduced to 12 per cent. It has not become a major ground for divorce. Yet, on the other hand, because of the urgency with which many people in this country required a divorce, because they have lived in circumstances which are intolerable, the ground of adultery has risen considerably. In 1963 there were 17 per cent petitioning on this ground. In 1973, 38 per cent were petitioning on the ground of adultery. That was the immediate ground and together with the ground of cruelty, now makes up something like 45 per cent of all the petitions in this country. One must note that under this Bill- far from it being a 'quickie' divorce Bill which will give quick divorces- a great number, 45 per cent, of petitioners will be required to wait longer for the divorces which they seek. I say this about the development of the Bill up to this day: Many defects have occurred in it, defects which I will not detail because they have been written about many times. I refer to matters of bitterness arising under the grounds which presently exist, matters of great delay and costs, and other indignities and problems which have caused the examination of this matter and the emergence of this Bill. 
In this country marriage is, as I said earlier, a popular institution. In 1960- the latest figures I have- 6 per cent of women and 7 per cent of men only were unmarried in Australia. If one goes back to the 1930s one will find twice as many unmarried people. If one goes back to the 19th century one will find 4 times as many people unmarried. It can clearly be said that marriage is still a very popular institution in this country. So far as people who obtain a divorce are concerned, three-quarters of them re-marry. They do not generally re-marry more than once but they are getting their divorces because they want to remarry, not because they have lost their faith in the institution of marriage. 
I wish to refer- because I think it is relevant to this whole debate- to some excellent research which has been done by  Dr Ailsa  Burns.  Dr Burns,  of the School of Behavioural Science at Macquarie University, has written an article in the magazine 'Search' of July 1974. She entitled it: 'Marital Breakdown and Divorce'. She detailed some of the assumptions that people make which, on examination, prove to be false. She stated: 
The history of divorce legislation indicates that harsh laws have frequently been introduced and retained not because they were considered meritorious in themselves but because they were considered a safeguard to the stability of the family. The assumptions underlying this attitude can be stated as follows: 
Easy divorce laws will lead to a high divorce rate. 
A high divorce rate will weaken the structure of the family in society. 
Since society is based on the family unit, society itself will therefore be threatened. 
A number of recent writers suggest that this is a false formulation, and that no such conflict of interests in reality exists. Rather it is held that the present high divorce rates found iti virtually all Western countries must be seen in their context of high marriage, parenthood and remarriage rates. Marriage in fact is more popular and more idealized than ever before. 
She goes on to explain various other aspects which, I believe, should be borne in mind. For example, the situation in regard to re-marriage rates is stated as follows: 
Remarriage rates in the U.S. and U.K. are high (local figures are not available), with around 75 per cent of U.S. divorcees being remarried within five years of divorce, and the divorced-not-remarried group representing at any one time around 2 per cent of the population for men and around 3 per cent for women. Divorce can thus be seen as actually contributing to marriage stability, by rechannelling conflicting partners and their children into more viable family settings. 
The doctor makes the following comments on the facts and figures relating specifically to Australia: 
Two features of the Australian divorce rate are particularly notable; firstly, it is the relatively low level - 
I emphasise the words 'relatively low level' - and secondly, the fidelity with which its course over the twentieth century has paralleled that of comparable countries. 
The doctor gives a number of figures and a demonstration of the changes over a period. She makes the point, which I think it important, that over a 20-year period until 1966 the number of Australians who were married but permanently separated was much greater than the number of Australians who were divorced, although I point out that there has been some change in the ratio recently. Taking the figures that she has given and the situation in the United States of America which is even more extreme, she concludes: 
Taking Figure 3 and these figures together it seems clearly indicated that Australians have up till now preferred to dissolve their marriages de facto rather than de jure; or perhaps more accurately, that the legal dissolution machinery is not operating efficiently to legitimate the decisions, and the subsequent unions, of separating persons; and that in consequence the country is perpetuating the existence of a large minority of citizens (over 1 per cent of the total population) who are in the marital sense stateless, and faced with all the problems of illegitimacy that statelessness involves. 
If we take the situation of pensioners, we find that the ratio of deserted wives to divorcees is 5 to 1; that is, there are 5 pensioners who are deserted wives to one pensioner who is a divorcee. In fact, the position in this country is that those who are privileged have an opportunity to divorce and those who are poor and who are probably in the greatest need of support and of marriage support are the ones who cannot afford divorce. I believe that these figures and calculations do a great deal to remove some of the misconceptions and mere assertions that are made on this subject. 
I turn to the Bill which is before the Senate and the features of it. It is designed, as the AttorneyGeneral has said, to alleviate the high costs, delays and indignities of divorce and other aspects of family law. I believe that in many ways it certainly does that. Firstly, I will deal with the grounds for divorce which, of course, have received great attention in the debates that have been conducted in the last few years. The Bill provides a ground based on non-fault and irretrievable breakdown' is described as the term of the ground. But the fact is, of course, that separation for a fixed period is the way in which the ground is proved. I do not propose to repeat the whole argument about fault grounds and non-fault grounds. Of course, since 1959 we have had a non-fault ground in our legislation. So it is no good for people to talk about the function of marriage being changed by the introduction of this type of ground. It has been in the legislation since 1959 and that argument has been resolved. 
I have found in a long period of practice in this jurisdiction that it is very difficult to find a person who can be described as the innocent party in a divorce. We go through a charade of trying to establish guilt; of trying to establish that some person is responsible. I suggest that we do this to no real purpose. In fact, in most cases it is a matter of some sort of incompatibility that has led to the breakdown of the marriage; it is not a matter of one person being at fault. There are no or very few innocent parties in any complete sense. Those who have endeavoured in the past to obtain a divorce in a decent civilised fashion, who have separated and made arrangements, have found themselves either waiting many years or unable to divorce on a ground which exists at present. I suggest to the Senate that this is not a desirable situation. Indeed, it is an exercise in futility and an exercise in creating animosities that we continue to retain that type of requirement of fault. 

 Mr W. W. Hartin, the  Deputy  Director of the Cairnmillar Institute of Melbourne, made a submission to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on this question of blame, guilt and fault. He said: 
The attempt to apportion blame to one or other partner can be nothing more than an exercise in futility, and the grounds on which the divorce is eventually granted reflect only the legal provisions for recognising the breakdown of the marriage, and not its real causes. In the case of such conflict-ridden marriages it would seem realistic and humane to provide a way out of such marriages by the recognition of irretrievable breakdown as a sufficient ground for divorce. 
The great consensus of opinion, as it was called by the  Chairman,  that came in evidence before the Senate Committee over a period of years certainly demonstrates overwhelmingly in favour of that view. We have in the Bill the change in the grounds, about which 1 shall say something when I deal with the Committee's recommendations, and a 12 months period of separation is provided for. I shall speak further of this but let us say that it is a compromise because some people would be giving up immediate grounds- 45 per cent of them- and others would be getting divorces a little earlier than they did before. In my opinion that is a fair compromise and a fair arrangement providing the period of 12 months is absolutely completed before proceedings commence. 
At the moment I am detailing what seems to me to be the main aspects of the Bill. The Bill provides for the abolition of various absolute and discretionary bars against divorce- such as collusion, the requirement of discretion statementsthat was once part of the ludicrous practice of this law- the removal of judicial separation and other unnecessary and rarely used remedies. The next important aspect of the Bill is the removal of what was the prohibition on divorce within 3 years from the date of marriage. This was never an overall prohibition because in the case of divorce on the ground of adultery and a couple of other grounds this ban did not apply. One can quote examples of people who have been divorced under the present Act and the decree absolute has been granted within a year of marriage. It is a restriction now to be taken- I trust- from the Act. It was illogical because it applied to some persons and not to others and was positively unjust to some. 
In the area of custody and access this Bill does a great deal. Among its most valuable achievements is the work done in this respect. It would create the concept of joint custody under the law, providing for representation of children in cases where their interests are different, possibly, from those of both their parents and where the court feels they ought to be represented. The Bill provides for compulsory conferences in many cases with welfare officers so that the problems, disputes and hatreds can be avoided and so that common sense in the interests of the children can prevail. The Bill also contains enforcement powers in respect to custody and access. They are invaluable. I regret to say that some of the persons who have commented on this Bill- even Archbishop Sambell in Perth- have not noted the fact that the conduct of the parties is not excluded from consideration by a court when considering custody and access. It must be obvious surely that it is a very relevant aspect when the decision is to be made as to which parent will have custody of the children. Unfortunately he based his opinion of the Bill on that. The conduct of the parties cannot be removed from consideration nor it is removed under the Bill. 
In the area of maintenance the Bill makes substantial change, and it has been a highly criticised change because it bases the award of maintenance, in the future, on need. It seeks to promote- and I think this is justified- the independence which a wife will have so that she will not forever be in a position of dependence, of self-commiseration, and will be able wherever possible to take her place in the world after divorce. I shall have more to say about that because I think that the provisions which appear in the Bill are too harsh to wives. So far as property and the disposition of property between the parties are concerned, brought together in this Bill are all the miscellaneous jurisdictions of State and Federal governments, of lower and higher courts which deal in one way or other with the preservation and distribution of property. This Bill at least will put to an end the hopping from jurisdiction to jurisdiction to stop and reduce the consequent costs to litigants. Also it will provide some reality and recognition of the contribution as a home maker and in other capacities of wives who have no legal claim to property at the present time. 
The Bill also abolishes imprisonment for maintenance debts. Many people have had doubts about this matter. But it should be recognised that, far from effecting the abolition altogether of imprisonment, there will remain the weapon of imprisonment in the case of the flouting of a court order or in the case of a contempt of court. This is the most important area where it should apply. The latest figures which the Senate Committee obtained on the number of such people who were imprisoned showed that in New South Wales there were 70 persons, in Queensland there were twenty, in South Australia there was one and in Victoria there were nine at that time. Consequently it appears that imprisonment is not a major factor in the enforcement of maintenance payments. I draw attention to the figure for South Australia. In that State a successful family court is operating and that may be the reason why it is not found necessary to use the power of imprisonment. 
Lastly in dealing with the aspects of the Bill as I see them, the right to an order for costs is partially removed and orders may be made only in exceptional circumstances. I will have something further to say about that. The important thing is that, if the provisions of legal aid are properly clarified and if they are applied fairly and generously to the persons involved, they will do a great deal in bringing within the range of persons who need not only divorce but also remedies in the courts, some opportunity of having their cases heard. I summarise those matters as the main features, as I see them, of the Bill. 
Since the Bill first came before the Senate in December 1973 there has been quite a deal of public criticism and comment on it. I think it has to be recognised that the Bill came forward in association with a Senate committee which sat for a period of 3 years taking submissions, hearing witnesses, discussing, receiving and reading the comments on each of the Bills. It should be borne in mind also that not only were 190 letters and 108 formal submissions received but also several have been received since and members of the Committee have read them. Recent submissions raise no new changes or new suggestions but they show the great interest throughout the community in this Bill. This Bill which is now before us is the third Bill. Anyone who has made a study of the 3 Bills will recognise that there are many, not major but quite valuable changes from one Bill to another. I compliment the AttorneyGeneral not only on his persistence in regard to this legislation but also on his adaptability and his willingness to listen and to change the Bills progressively as they have come along. Although there has been no debate on them, this Bill is already a great improvement on the first Bill. 
I suggest that the criticisms which have appeared in the submissions and the various suggestions, have been embodied in very great degree in the Bill. They have been embodied still further in the recommendations of the Senate Committee. I will come to that matter in a moment. It is the constructive work that has been done by persons throughout the community that has built up this Bill and made it adequate for debate today. Two features of the community's attitudes I think are worthy of note. Two polls were taken late last year just before the first Bill was first tabled. The first one was a Gallup Poll. The question asked of the people at that stage was: 
The Federal Attorney-General has proposed that in future the only ground for divorce should be evidence of 12 months separation. This will make divorce easier to obtain. Do you think that this is a good thing or a bad thing? 
I observe that I do not accept the contention that this makes divorce easier. Against that question, which I think was phrased unfortunately for the yes' vote, one finds these answers: Sixty three per cent of all people said that it is a good thing, 32 per cent said that it is a bad thing and 5 per cent gave no answer. Among the States Western Australia, with 68 per cent, had the highest poll. I feel that this is some useful reflection of the opinion of the people on the subject of this type of Bill. Another poll, the results of which I shall seek leave to incorporate in Hansard, is a Morgan poll which was held at much the same time. That poll also covered the religious denominations of those who answered the questions. The subject was: 
If a husband and wife tell the court their marriage is broken should a divorce be granted or not. If granted, immediately or after an interval. If interval, after how long. 
The total Australian vote in favour of the proposition that a divorce should be granted immediately was 31.1 per cent. The percentage in favour of granting a divorce after an interval of 12 months was 38.6 per cent. That makes a total vote of those who favour a Bill of this nature of 69.7 per cent or almost 70 per cent. If one takes the Roman Catholic vote, the figure is 6 1 . 2 per cent. The total Protestant, Anglican and other votes in favour of granting a divorce immediately or after an interval of 12 months was 71.8 per cent. Throughout Australia 3.7 per cent of persons wanted a divorce granted after 2 years; those who would not grant a divorce at all were 12.2 per cent; and 8.8 per cent were undecided. I seek leave to incorporate the detailed poll records in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
Q 1 C- If a husband and wife tell the court their marriage is broken should a divorce be granted or not. 
Q1D- If granted, immediately or after an interval. 
Q1E- If interval, after how long. 

<graphic href="062232197410294_18_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the Senate. Both these polls indicate- I see no reason to think that the views have changed- an acceptance of the basic strategy and opinions which this Bill now incorporates. I believe that this is important in our consideration. 
I turn to the work of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs which has presented 2 reports to the Senate on this subject. I am concerned mainly with the main features of the Final Report of that Committee. In that report we suggest substantial changes which pervade the Bill and which, I believe, will make many of the provisions of the Bill more effective. 
The first of these proposals, which I consider the most important, is to recommend the establishment of a family court of Australia. It recommends that the court deal with all the various elements of jurisdiction which the Bill describes and that the court do this uniformly and with all necessary facilities which are of importance in this country. If honourable senators read pages 16 to 22 of the Final Report they will see the type of court which we recommend should be existent in this country. 
It is important to recognise that in relation to the suggestion which we make we believe that judges should no longer be appointed for life as the Constitution requires. The judges who will go around the countryside sitting in one provincial city after another and doing most of the hard work of a family court should not be old judges or 'geriatric judges' as they have been described by one of our Senate colleagues. In fact, that work should be done by judges who are appointed by the States in agreement with the Commonwealth. Thereby we can have younger judges who are particularly suited to the work which a family court requires. That, above all, is the important thing. At the moment a judge might deal at one stage with this jurisdiction and at another stage with another. Occasionally he might do a little family court work, very often disliking that sort of work because it is not the matter on which he has spent most of his legal career. We have to have judges who are interested and qualified in this area. We have to have courts which will have the right types of facilities and will meet in an atmosphere which will be conducive to reconciliation. Such courts will need to have ancillary support from such people as social workers, conciliators, and legal advisers. It must encourage people to come to the court and use its facilities, not when proceedings have started but before, so that it can be an advising, helping court. I think that in doing this we will see a new era of law reform in this country. 
Not so very long ago  Mr G.  J. F. Yuill of the Attorney-General's Department went to the United States of America and Canada. In a very detailed study which he made of the family courts of America and Canada he came to the conclusion that such a court was a very suitable facility for this country. I quote his conclusions: 
I have reached the conclusion that family courts would be a desirable improvement to Australia's legal system, provided they have this ancillary function of counselling. 
I also feel that the gathering together in the one court (or in 2 courts along the lines suggested by the Sydney University Law Graduates Association) of all the family matters mentioned in paragraph 4 above would be attractive to the legal profession and public alike. 
The Committee recommended along the lines of that and many other recommendations. It recommended that a family court be adopted and that there be co-operation with the States so that it will work with success. In addition let me refer to a report from certain Canadian specialists who were asked to consider the question of a family court. This report is quoted in 'The Australian Law Journal' of November 1973 at page 653: 
We believe that these problems of conflicting and fragmented jurisdictions, and the advantages of consistency in philosophy and approach, expertise in dealing with the family relationship, and practical use of social services, can best be dealt with by the creation of one Court with exclusive jurisdiction in the field of Family Law . . . 
The group further concluded: 
As a blue print for the future, this kind of scheme is being given very serious consideration in Canada, and indeed a pilot Family Court Conciliation scheme has recently been set up by the Canadian Federal Government in Edmonton, where its success is exceeding all expectations. 
In Australia the one family court which has been set up in South Australia, which unfortunately is dealing only with those jurisdictions below the Supreme Court level, has been an outstanding success in the last year. The Committee heard evidence of this court's operations and it concluded that a court of this nature ought to be operating throughout this country. 
The Committee considered many other aspects of the Bill apart from the family court. It considered the question of 12 months separation which had been so criticised in various parts of the country. It was firmly of the conclusion that there should be a period in which persons could not rush out of their house after an argument and seek immediate remedies which they later feel they must go on with. The opportunity for reconciliation should always be retained. At a seminar approximately  2Vi  years ago a most experienced judge in this field,  Mr Justice  Selby of the New South Wales bench, in answer to a question from me, said: 'Yes, there must be a cooling-off period'. He agreed that people 'must not be able immediately to take proceedings which they may regret'. The recommendation of the Committee, which the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  accepted, is that there should be a 12-month period of separation before a divorce can commence. 
In the last few days I received a letter from the Secretary of the Anglican Synod of the Diocese of Melbourne advising me of a resolution which the Synod adopted on 10 October. The resolution states: 
That Synod urgently commends to the Australian Parliament that the Family Law Bill 1974 be amended in the interests of the preservation of the family as the basic unit of our society to provide that no application may be made for divorce under the Bill until the parties have lived separately and apart for at least 12 months. 
That was also the recommendation of the Senate Committee. The secretary of the Synod said in his letter that although the Synod considered that there were other matters of importance, the amendment supported in the motion appeared to be the most important. I think there are many other people in this society who feel that this is a very important matter. 
The third aspect to which one must draw attention is that in the final report of the Committee there was no unanimity on the subject of whether the period of separation should be a completed period of 12 months or a completed period of 2 years. This is an important matter for the consideration of the Senate. From my experience and the views which I have formed over the years, I believe that a 2-year period would be unfair and that it would be quite wrong for people who are having great difficulty in their marriages, who are suffering because their husband is living with someone else and the marriage is really dead or who are suffering cruelty. They will have their immediate grounds taken from them. I think that it would be unfair to expect those persons to wait 2 years before they can re-marry. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 

 -Mr Deputy President, when the sitting of the Senate was suspended I was dealing with the one area in which there was some difference amongst members of the Committee; the majority favouring 12 months as the period of separation and the minority, 2 members, favouring 2 years. I had referred to the question of fairness which I pointed out was one basic reason why I favoured one year. I think that 2 other matters should be mentioned. We on the Committee see that we are dealing with a completely new 'ball game' in the sense that a family court will make a tremendous difference to all areas covered by the legislation and that proper operation of that family court will mean that throughout the year of separation there will be a helping, on-going court to which people can appeal and which can actually be involved in the problems surrounding the question of whether a reconciliation is possible. That is not the situation now. The court now comes upon a divorce situation after, say, 2 years of desertion have elapsed and after possibly another year has been wasted in bringing the proceeding to the court. In most cases the marriage is dead at that stage. But it is a different situation if there is an active, operating family court operating during the period of the separation. In that event I think that 1 year is sufficient for all those purposes. 
There is a third reason. It is that throughout the experience which I have had in this jurisdiction over many years I have regarded the second year of separation when people are waiting for a divorce on the ground of desertion as largely a year of bitterness. It is a year in which very few reconciliations are achieved and in which very little change occurs. Often what happens in that period is that the parties grow to hate each other; they have fights over maintenance, custody and access, and it finishes with the children of the marriage no longer seeing one parent again. I really believe that in that second year very little is achieved in preserving the marriage or the interests of the children of the marriage. For those reasons I favour one full year as the period of separation. 
The third area in which a question of time is involved and which is important in the Committee 's recommendations relates to the question of a marriage continuing for 3 years before a party may petition for divorce. I have already mentioned that matter. Honourable senators will read in the Committee's recommendations that while we agree with the abolition of this provision, we strongly recommend the insertion of a provision that if any divorce application is made and the attention of the officials is drawn to the fact that the marriage has been in existence for no more than 2 years, they should be required to bring this fact to the attention of the judge, and the judge can require reconciliation proceedings between the parties to see whether in that young marriage, that new marriage, there are still grounds and hopes for believing that something can be done. This, I think, is completely different from what has happened in the past where there has been a 3-year prohibition with no active involvement by the court in that period. We strongly urge that change on the Senate as a desirable change. 
I turn to the reconciliation provisions in this Bill. We bear in mind again the effect which a family court would have in filling out and giving substance to these provisions. It is also a fact that this is a change which will be a real change so far as the law is concerned, because lawyers throughout Australia recognise that to a great extent the reconciliation provisions of the present law have not really operated. We hope that the provision of a family court will make them matters of reality. But in addition we want to see the provision that there will be proper facilities for reconciliation; that there will be attempts at reconciliation not only at the time of divorce but also before, as soon as some problem arises in the marriage. The parties will have somewhere to go; a helpful facility will exist. 
Part of the provisions which, we suggest, should be amended relates to the documents which should be given to the parties contemplating divorce. They should be informative, useful documents; that they should make clear to the parties not only the problems that they will experience after divorce but also the facilities that are available to them now and in their period of trial. 
One other amendment which I think warrants the attention of the Senate is the one relating to the making of applications for various ancillary proceedings. There is a provision in the Bill that where applications are made for maintenance, custody or other ancillary matters like that, they must be made at least within 12 months of the decree for divorce being made. After 12 months a party cannot come back to the court; cannot proceed with these matters. Of course, the result could well be a grave injustice being done to the parties. A wife who is promised various things by her husband and who relies on that promise and takes no proceedings for maintenance or custody would find, after 12 months, that the time for taking such proceedings has elapsed. In the original 1973 Bill there was an exception to this; there was a provision that application could still be made by regulation or by leave of the court. It allowed the court to intervene and to take account of such circumstances and give redress. We want to see that provision, which went out of the 2 subsequent Bills, restored to this Bill because we believe that it is necessary to have it in the Act. 
I turn to the question of custody and access proceedings. I have already said that I think that the provisions in this part of the legislation show great promise and great advance. But one or two things require alteration. One provision says that children's opinions, views and wishes on matters of custody should be taken into account by the court when it is making orders. This, I think, is sensible. But there is a further provision which says that where a child is 14 years of age or over, no order shall be made contrary to the wishes of that child. The Committee believes that provision is not desirable. Some children of 14 years of age are mature; others are strongly under the influence of one parent. Therefore, it would be undesirable to deny a court the opportunity to make a decision on all the facts, and we believe that this embellishment on the general regard for a child 's wishes should be removed. 
I turn to the very important area of maintenance. I mentioned earlier that there is the possibility of harshness being done to wives who have served and helped their husbands for many years, who have brought up the children and who find themselves turned away, and denied maintenance. There is a harshness in the present provisions of the Bill which I believe should be changed. We are proposing that clause 5 1 , which deals with the needs provision- it provides that maintenance is available only in a situation of need- should be tied more closely to the provision in clause 54 which sets out all the considerations and all the rights which the parties have which should be taken into account in making a maintenance order. We have made a number of proposals for changing various aspects of clause 54. We want to see standard of living taken into account, so far as a wife is concerned. Perhaps it should be the standard of living which she could reasonably have expected but which by reason of the breakup of the marriage she may not now enjoy. 
The last of our amendments to this section, I believe, will create some controversy, but I think it is a matter of importance. We propose to have among the things considered in the awarding of maintenance, any fact or circumstance which the justice of the case requires to be considered. Some will say that this will bring into question argument about the conduct of the parties in this matter. But I do not think that it is possible to exclude altogether such conduct. I give 2 examples of this. There is the example of a husband who chooses to depart from his wife who has for many years worked and scraped and has not enjoyed the pleasures of life which she would reasonably expect in later life. The husband is in every position to maintain her but he chooses to go away and not do so. There may be such special circumstances where a wife is not by law entitled to any family property which she owns. She should not be expected necessarily to work, perhaps to become a junior typist in some firm; rather, she should be entitled to expect some further order for maintenance. There is the other case where a wife may leave her husband to go to live with some other man for many years and the husband may be left to bring up the children. Ten years later her friend dies. She goes back and says: 'I want maintenance from my husband. He has not divorced me. I have been away 10 years. I now want some maintenance. ' On the mere test of need she would possibly be entitled to have it but we want it left open so that a court in such circumstances can say: 'No, the special facts here require that in justice you be denied maintenance from your husband'. Looking at it from both sides, some amendment is needed in the maintenance provisions. There is also a need to amend them in regard to the variation of existing maintenance orders because, unless a court is left with some discretion, wives who are dependent on maintenance orders for 20 years and who are no longer capable of going to work, or who should not be expected to go to work, may be dealt with unjustly. We propose an amendment to that provision. 
In regard to property the major amendment which the Committee has recommended is that a person can claim a settlement of property and not necessarily be required to start divorce proceedings to do so. On the present reading of the Bill it is almost essential that people who want a property settlement take divorce proceedings. I suggest to the Parliament that it is within the power of the Commonwealth to make provisions irrespective of whether divorce proceedings have been instituted or not. We do not want to see divorce proceedings instituted just because somebody has to take steps in respect of property. 
Another recommendation of the Senate Committee relates to alteration to the injunctions provision in clause 90. It is proposed that orders can be made now whereby wives are not required any longer to live with their husbands. The Committee, and particularly myself, have been concerned about the problem of somebody who cannot leave a home because he or she has not the facilities to do so. Because the party has nowhere to go he or she is forced to stay on in intolerable circumstances. I am persuaded, with some remaining doubt, by my colleagues on the Committee that there should not be a second ground of divorce although I may be persuaded to another course. I think it essential that at the very least there should be a right by a party to go to a court and say: 'I want an order in these circumstances. I am not required any longer to be regarded as living with my husband and I can enjoy the benefits of instituting divorce proceedings after a year of separation. ' 
On the question of costs the Committee recommends changes. We want to see the word 'exceptional' taken out. The present provision is that only in exceptional circumstances can costs be awarded. We put before the Senate the idea that in circumstances where the court actually sees some real cause it may make an order for costs. We hope that it will not often need to be used if the legal aid provisions are adequate and properly and consistently applied. 
Another recommendation is that publicity of divorce proceedings should be stopped. We cannot see that any good is done except for the profits of certain newspapers when publicity is given to the travails of people in a divorce situation. Under the Commonwealth legislation at present very little can be printed but under the State maintenance legislation, which is to be taken over by this Bill, we want to see the same restriction on this type of publicity which is hurtful to children, harmful to individuals and of no benefit to the people generally. 
One major recommendation of the Committee is the upgrading of the advisory body recommended in the Bill into a Family Law Commission. We want created an ongoing body which will not wait 1 5 years for the alteration of divorce legislation but will be able to act of its own volition, will be well representative of interested organisations, to pursue the need for law reform as it constantly sees it and be able to make recommendations to the Parliament. In that way we may have a law which remains constantly just and can pick up defects and which will not require such a major amendment every 15 years. 
I have examined the Bill and the amendments which the Committee has recommended. I have examined as best I can the community needs and requirements. I have read with other members of the Committee and other senators the pleas and submissions which have been made over a long period by members of the public and interested organisations. A lot of fine work has been done which now puts the Parliament in the position where it can make a just law in this respect. 
I believe strongly in the institution of marriage, in seeing it preserved and in making it workable. I believe that any family law must be strong, useful and constructive. We should not have to wait until the damage is done before we make any change. I hold out no real expectation that we will have a sudden change of human behaviour so that most of the threatened dissolutions will now be repaired. Nobody expects that. Most of the marriages which have broken up will stay broken up but surely we must provide for the necessary courts and facilities so that the break-up occurs with the least bitterness and humiliation and so that people will be able to have a continuing relationship one with another. I support the Bill, particularly with the amendments which the Committee has recommended. I support it with all my heart. I believe it is fair and just to the people of Australia and I hope that the motion for the second reading will be carried. 
I  present 2 petitions, identical in wording and from 20 and 40 citizens of the Commonwealth respectively, in the following terms: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned Citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble Petition respectfully showeth: 
That the existing matrimonial laws in Australia are archaic, unrealistic, and cruel and so completely at variance with modern thought as to require their immediate repeal. 
That there is such urgent need for reform that there must be no delay in presenting the Family Law Bill 1974 to Parliament for debate. 
That the ground of Irretrevable Breakdown of Marriage be the sole ground for divorce with proof of this determined by a maximum of twelve months separation. 
That dissolution of marriage must come out of the legal system with people resolving9 their family matters between themselves according to guidelines and with assistance of a mediator. Family Courts only to be used for enforcement as a last resort. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
I present the following petition from 46 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that there is an urgent need for the reform of the law of Australia relating to Divorce. The existing legislation is not fair to both parties, promotes unnecessary litigation, cost and delay resulting in greatly unnecessary expense to parties, indignities to the parties involved and their children and delays in resolving divorce matters. Generally it is true that the existing legislation fails to meet the criteria for good divorce law adopted by the English Law Commission as follows: "It should buttress rather than undermine the stability of marriage and when a marriage has irretrievably broken down it should enable the empty legal shell to be destroyed with the maximum fairness and minimum bitterness distress and humiliation". 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Family Law Bill be debated and passed at the earliest possible opportunity in the interests of the many thousand people in 
Australia presently affected by a matrimonial breakdown situation. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 69 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the reduction of the allowable deduction of education expenses under Section 82J of the Income Tax Assessment Act from $400 to $150 is $50.00 below the 1956-57 figure. 
That this reduction will impose hardships on many parents who have children attending school, whether non government or government; and particularly on parents with more than one child at school. 
That this reduction will further restrict the freedom available to parents to make a choice of school for their children. 
That some parents who have chosen to send their children to a non-government school will have to withdraw their children and send them to government schools already over crowded and under staffed. 
That the parents to benefit most relatively from educational income tax deductions, in the past and even more in the future, are the parents of children in government schools and this has a divisive effect in the Australian community. 
That parents should be encouraged by the Australian government to exercise freedom of choice of the type of school they wish for their children. The proposed reduction means an additional financial penalty is imposed on parents who try to exercise this choice and discourage them from making an important financial contribution to Australian education over and above what they contribute through taxation. 
That an alternative system, a tax rebate system, could be adopted as being more equitable for all parents with children at school. 
To compensate for the losses that will follow from the proposed reduction and to help meet escalating educational costs faced by all families your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should take immediate steps to restore educational benefits to parents, at least at the 1 973- 1 974 level either by increasing taxation deductions or through taxation rebates. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question, which I ask of the Attorney-General, relates to various reports of action taken by member exchanges of the Australian Associated Stock Exchanges against individuals following publication of the Rae report and arising out of its disclosures. Will the Attorney-General seek the following information and table it in the Senate at the earliest opportunity: 1. The names of members of the various exchanges and non-member partners of stock broking firms who have been charged by any of the exchanges with offences and penalised. 2. The details of such charges. 3. The verdicts and penalties imposed in respect to each charge. 4. The transcripts of evidence or other available records of evidence relating to each charge. 5. Details of any subsequent action taken by the appropriate State Government authorities in respect thereto. 6. Whether or not any other charges by stock exchanges are known to be pending or unfinalised 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. When an unemployed person is accepted as eligible for retraining under the National Employment and Training Scheme, known as NEAT, does his or her name continue to be included in the Government's unemployment statistics or is it then removed? 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of widespread newspaper reports that the Austraiian Government proposes to abolish existing income tax deductibility of donations made to charitable organisations? Has he received submissions against this proposal from organisations carrying out a wide variety of social and charitable work, including a detailed submission dated 4 November 1974 from the Brotherhood of St Laurence in Victoria? Is he aware of the Brotherhood's complaints that it is unable to get from the Treasurer any assurance that there will be consultation with voluntary charitable bodies before carrying out such a proposal which it estimates would lead to the loss of half of its current donations? Will the Treasurer now give an undertaking not to abolish the deductibility but to continue to support community participation in providing for social welfare needs? 
-This afternoon a number of speakers have referred to the major problems which face Australia. They have referred to the tremendous problem of unemployment and the tremendous problem of inflation. I wish to deal with another aspect which, though not as major, is I think perhaps in many ways more despicable in relation to the way in which the Government is conducting itself at the present time and the way in which it has conducted itself in the last two years. Not only has there been the rising problem of unemployment and the rising problem of inflation for the business community but also there have been the delusions under which the Government has suffered and the illusions which it has endeavoured to foist on the Australian people in the course of the suffering which they have had to endure particularly in recent months. I wish to bring before the Senate 3 examples of the type of delusion and the type of illusion perpetrated on the people and which are in the range of Government activity which I have described. 
This morning I asked a question of the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  in his capacity as the Minister in this chamber representing the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and he gave me an answer. The question related to what I understand is something well understood in the community, that is that there is a possibility of the income tax deductibility on donations to charitable organisations being abolished. This morning I received an answer which suggested that it was a false rumour, that there was nothing in the thing at all. The Minister was indignant at the thought that this should be suggested. I am sure that I did not base the question I asked this morning nor am I basing the remarks I am now making on any sort of false conjecture at all. In fact, there has been- perhaps there is not now, I do not know- a very real threat to the donations which each year were and are given by thousands of people in their own charitable desire to help and to take an interest in a great number of organisations in this community that are doing charitable work. 
It may not have done so. 
-Of course, that would be no excuse for  Senator McAuliffe  's Government to take away the income tax deductibility on these donations, would it? A suggestion that we may have refused deductibility for some very useful expenditure is no reason for the present Government to consider taking away the income tax deductibility on all charitable bequests, and that has been the allegation made in the community for some months. I am not putting this forward just as my suggestion, because part of the basis of my question this morning was the circular from the Brotherhood of St Laurence. It is not a party political organisation; it is a fine charitable organisation in the State of Victoria. I think that honourable senators opposite must agree that it is an organisation which deserves support. 
-I hope that  Senator Poyser's  wife is talking to him about the subject, and I hope that it has had some effect. This organisation has written to the Treasurer again and again in an endeavour to obtain some assurance or some determination, because it says: 'Take away the tax deductions from our donations and half of our donations will go. ' 
-I ask  Senator McLaren  to listen to what has been stated by the Brotherhood of St Laurence in a circular which no doubt he has received, because I think that all honourable senators have received it. In this circular the Brotherhood says that on 9 July last the Australian Council of Social Service worried about this rumour- if this was all it was- wrote to the Treasurer requesting full consultation with the agencies likely to be affected. The Brotherhood points out that the Treasurer replied on 23 July. Did he say: 'Nothing like this is going to happen '? No. This is what he said: 
I will bear in mind your Council 's offer to undertake discussions concerning the likely result of curtailing the tax concessions. However, you will understand that normal budgetary restraints will not permit me to indicate at this time whether or not the Government may be likely to review the scope of the present concessions. 
If that is anything, it is certainly not no. If the Treasurer had no such suggestion in mind, and if the matter is so ridiculous, as  Senator Wriedt  suggested this morning, then surely that would have been the time to deny it. But no, the question was left open in that phrase which the Treasurer used. The Brotherhood drew attention to the fact that no undertaking was given that there would be any prior consultations. So on 3 September  Mr David  Scott,  President  of the Australian Council of Social Service, wrote again to the Treasurer seeking assurances. On 2 October the Minister assisting the Treasurer replied that the Government 'shall keep in mind the suggestion of prior discussions with representatives of voluntary organisations such as yours'. Not satisfied with that the Australian Council of Social Service wrote to the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  in order to ascertain whether he had any idea on the matter.  His  reply was: 
No such policy was implemented in either of our 2 Budgets and I am not aware of any intention to introduce it in a future Budget. 
In all of that correspondence over many months, nowhere is the assurance given that this very excellent concession will not be abolished. I believe that its abolition would be worth only about $13m to the Government. In considering the tremendous importance of the excellent charitable intentions which individuals have and of the value of these deductions to the organisations themselves, the easiest thing in the world was for the Government to say: 'No, this income tax deductibility on donations to charitable organisations is not to be abolished'. But no was not said. I say to the Minister for Agriculture, who this morning pushed this suggestion aside as not being a possibility and as being no more than a rumour, that the truth must be found in the activities of the Government. It may not be a fact that this income tax deductibility on donations to charitable organisations is to be abolished. I hope that it is not a fact; I hope that it will not be done by the Government. But I suggest that it is something which was very much in mind. It is something which is deplorable even if it was only in contemplation because these donations are among the most desirable things in this community. 
I will take another example of the deceptive way in which the Government has operated in carrying out its promises to the people. I will take its promises to the small businesses in the community. A year or so ago  Mr Enderby  said: 
The small business program as envisaged would be comprehensive and balanced and designed to have a favourable impact on the long-term viability of the small business sector . . . 
He then detailed a number of things that he would do. He stated that he would be: 
Raising efficiency and profitability, strengthening the competitive position of small business firms in relation to the large and including overseas owned. Enabling small firms to cope better with structural changes in the economy. Improving industrial relations and the welfare of the workforce involved. 
Obviously, that last aim has fallen completely by the wayside. Apart from that, what is the position a year later? What has happened to this program which surely is a highly desirable program? If we bear in mind the current requirements which small businesses face- the tax collecting system, the tax recording system, payroll tax, income tax deductions, sales tax returns, paper work and all the other things they are called upon to do- we would expect that by now, in this period in which small businesses more than any other businesses are suffering from the effects of inflation and are naturally having to discharge workers, the Government would be evolving an excellent scheme. But what is the position? An article in the 'Bulletin' magazine of 26 October records the following as being the present situation. It states: 
A year later all that's to be shown of the National Small Business Bureau is a pamphlet from the Department of Secondary Industry on the speeches made at the seminar, a telephone number in Canberra, a recently appointed director,  Mr Brian  Hegarty, and a staff to be counted on the fingers. They will have to spread themselves a long way. 
One of my colleagues in the other place recently took it upon himself to make some inquiries to find out how well known and how active this National Small Business Bureau was. He rang the Department of Secondary Industry and was given a telephone number to ring. He rang that telephone number and found that it was the wrong number. So he rang again and this time he received the correct telephone number. He then asked for  Mr Hegarty  and found that he was overseas. He then asked for Miss Ritchie and was informed that she was away. Finally, he got in contact with a- junior in the Department- the only person he could speak to- and was informed that. apparently there is an approved complement of twenty, said to be twelve, but upon making inquiries was informed that there is no real staff operating in this area. To be included in the category of small business which, of course, should be a very big and comprehensive group in the community, a business has to have fewer than 100 employees with less than 2 people in a managerial position. It has to be a very small business indeed. Of course, at the moment such businesses are receiving practically no assistance at the time of their greatest need. So I say that in this second instance here is something which should have been done by the Government. It was a matter of urgency last year when this grandiose announcement was made. So far, the Government has produced practically nothing to assist at the time when small businesses are in greatest need. 
The third delusion which I say is created by the Government is in relation to unemployment. Many people have spoken about that. Honourable senators will recall a question that I asked a few days ago. It elicited the answer that when a person is approved for the NEAT scheme- that is, the National Employment and Training scheme- the names of such people are taken off the unemployment list. And apparently this applies also in relation to the RED scheme- the Regional Employment Development scheme. I would very much like to know how many people would be included in this category today. We are given the figures in relation to unemployment. We know that unemployment is extraordinarily bad and we know that unfortunately it will become extraordinarily worse. But I would like to know what are the real figures. How many people now have been added to this list- this sort of halfway house between heaven and hell- who are being trained and apparently being paid a very good salary? I would like to know how many people are in that category and therefore what are the real unemployment figures at the present time. We do not have these figures. We ought to have them. Members ofthe community ought not to be suffering under some delusion. 
Honourable senators who listened to a radio broadcast last night- I think it was the PM news commentary program- would have heard reporters inquiring of people who were approaching the Commonwealth Employment Service for a job as to whether they had heard anything about this scheme. Such people were asking whether they had been told about this scheme because the Government has made great play over many months about the importance of the NEAT scheme and what it would do for the community. But person after person who came to that employment agency seeking work stated that he or she was told nothing about the scheme. 
-Is that the capacity? 
That is only scratching at the problems. Even so, we ought to have the figures. We ought to know how many people are actually engaged in this scheme at the present time and how many names of people are being taken off the unemployment lists. We ought to know the real situation in this country. 
I say that these are just examples of the deception which the Government has played at the present time. No doubt, we will hear a more grand deception tonight. Perhaps I am just speaking of the fringes of the problems. But they all amount to this: A Government that cannot be honest with the people ought not to keep putting itself before the people as a government that is capable of solving the problems. It cannot solve the problems. It is not trying and it is deceiving the people by not telling them what the problems really are. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-I  call  Senator Webster. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  The point of order is upheld. The only way  Senator Webster  can speak at this stage is by leave of the Senate. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Yes. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Before we proceed any further, I state that I am acting on the advice of the  Clerk. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I can understand the position insofar as  Senator Webster  is concerned. The fact is that technically he had the call and apparently he chose to speak during the first reading stage. So in those circumstances I think it should be ruled that he had the opportunity to speak, he did speak and therefore he has spoken in this debate.  Senator Laucke,  do you wish to say something? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  I have given a ruling that the point of order is upheld. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  You will realise,  Senator Poyser,  that I was not in the Senate chamber when this happened this morning. I was advised by the  Clerk.  In those circumstances, I want to be quite fair about the position. I think that the solution to  Senator Webster's  problem would lie in his seeking leave of the 
Senate to make a statement. He would then be able to speak now. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENT-Is leave granted for  Senator Webster  to speak? 
-I present 2 petitions, identical in wording, and from 8 and 1,314 citizens of the Commonwealth, in the following terms: 
To the Honourable the  President  and the Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, we, the undersigned, are not opposed to the simplification of divorce proceedings, but have serious objections to the Family Law Bill 1974; 
That, the concept of marriage contained in section 26 subsection 2 is of marriage as a transitory and temporary union dissolvable by the simple passing of a period of twelve months separation; 
That, such a concept of marriage will destory the contractual nature of marriage, undermine the total commitment of two persons to each other and threaten the integrity of family life which is the basis of our society; 
That, a Bill with such serious implications deserves to be considered as a matter of public importance and be the object of the community debate which it warrants. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should vote against the Bill in its present form, allow public consideration of amendments and then vote to so amend the Bill as to strengthen and support marriage and the family in a manner acceptable to the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
I  present the following petition from 34 citizens of Victoria: 
To the Honourable the  President  and the Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the State of Victoria respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Law Bill 1974 is a matter of public importance; 
That the subject matter of the clauses of the Bill will ultimately have the widest effects on the lives of the citizens of Australia; 
That the proposals contained in this Bill are not adequately known to the citizens of Australia; 
That the Bill as such has not been the object of the public scrutiny, dialogue and debate which it deserves; 
That for these reasons grave concern is felt that the Bill may be passed before the community is aware of its long term consequences; 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should vote that the Family Law Bill 1974 be made the subject of further community study and that to facilitate this aim the debate on this Bill be adjourned until April 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 8 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we are concerned at letters in the press inferring that the Family Law Bill should be delayed. We are opposed to such action on the grounds that there has been ample time to discuss the bill with the community, and we are informed and.believe that many submissions have been considered by the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee and the report of that committee is substantially in accord with the Family Law Bill. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Family Law Bill be debated and passed as soon as possible. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I  present the following petition from 12 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we support the concept of no fault divorce in the Family Law Bill because: 
1 ) Marriage is not merely a contract it is a relationship. 
That if a party withdraws from that relationship for whatever reason, there is no good to be achieved by insisting on a continuence of a contractual shell. 
That where a marriage relationship has demonstrably broken down, divorce should be as quick, simple as possible in the interests of the dignity of the parties and the emotional well being of their children. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Family Law Bill be debated and passed as soon as possible. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I  present 3 petitions, identical in wording, and from 7, 20 and 27 citizens of the Commonwealth in the following terms: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned Citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That the existing matrimonial laws in Australia are archaic, unrealistic, and cruel and so completely at variance with modern thought as to require their immediate repeal. 
That there is such urgent need for reform that there must be no delay in presenting the Family Law Bill 1974 to Parliament for debate, 
That the ground of Irretrievable Breakdown of Marriage be the sole ground for divorce with proof of this determined by a maximum of twelve months separation. 
That dissolution of marriage must come out of the legal system with people resolving their family matters between themselves according to guidelines and with assistance of a mediator. Family Courts only to be used for enforcement as a last resort. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
I present the following petition from 4 1 citizens of the Commonwealth. 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we support the concept of no fault divorce in the Family Law Bill because: 
1 ) Marriage is not merely a contract it is a relationship. 
That if a party withdraws from that relationship for whatever reason, there is no good to be achieved by insisting on a continuance of a contractual shell. 
That where a marriage relationship has demonstrably broken down, divorce should be as quick, simple as possible in the interests of the dignity of the parties and the emotional well being of their children. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Family Law Bill be debated and passed as soon as possible. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following petition from 16 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned Citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble Petition respectfully showeth: 
That the inclusion in Sub-section 54(2) of the Family Law Bill of the Clause recommended in paragraph 67(f) (2) of the Report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, which will allow 'any fact or circumstance' to be taken into account when considering maintenance, completely alters the whole concept of specific guidelines, as now set out in Section 54, and we oppose it. 
That the removal of the word 'exceptional' in Subsection 92(2) of the new Family Law Bill, will result in a high level of bitter and costly litigation in ancillary matters, which the present proposed sharing of costs, with legal aid available, would otherwise minimise. 
That Judicial discretion which allows fault in Property Settlement and the usual false accusations necessitating defence in custody and access matters, as well as (a) and (b) above, will result in very much the same litigation in ancillary matters as under the present iniquitous Matrimonial Causes Act. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following petition from 106 citizens of Victoria: 
To the Honourable the  President  and the members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the State of Victoria respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Law Bill 1974 is a matter of public importance; 
That the subject matter of the clauses of the Bill will ultimately have the widest effects on the lives of the citizens of Australia; 
That the proposals contained in this Bill are not adequately known to the citizens of Australia; 
That the Bill as such has not been the object of the public scrutiny, dialogue and debate which it deserves; 
That for these reasons grave concern is felt that the Bill may be passed before the community is aware of its long term consequences. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should vote that the Family Law Bill 1 974 be made the subject of further community study and that to facilitate this aim the debate on this Bill be adjourned until April, 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct my question to the Manager of Government Business in the Senate. I draw the Minister's attention to the low placement on the Senate notice paper of the further consideration of the Family Law Bill and the higher priority to be given to some other Bills of lesser urgency recently received from the other place. In view of the results of a recent public opinion poll reported in this week's 'Bulletin' which showed overwhelming support for the major principles of the Bill, will the Minister give an assurance that the continuance of the debate on the Bill will receive high priority on the notice paper next week? 
I wish to make some remarks on the same subject. They are supplementary and additional to what has already been said. I wish to say, so there will be no misunderstanding, that I support very strongly the concept of legal aid. I have supported it since in started in Victoria. I played an active part in helping to get it off the ground, with the profession's support. I have supported it in a practical way for a number of years by taking action in accepting assignments and dealing with legal aid matters. I recognise not only the desirability of the profession being actively involved in legal aid, but also the deficiencies which it has had for a number of years and which of course need to be remedied. I think that one should take that general stance. I agree very substantially with  Senator Greenwood's  statement about the necessity for the private profession to be most heavily involved in the legal aid system and that it should not be a matter of government service. There is perhaps a distinction. Probably I do not go quite as far as  Senator Greenwood  goes, because I see a role for an Australian Legal 
Aid Office. I see it operating in remote places where the profession is perhaps not strong or even non-existent. I see it operating also perhaps in areas where there is an additional need to bring the knowledge of law facilities to the people where it may be that the profession is not able to do it adequately. Basically I think the legal profession is best able to deal with such a scheme. In my years of practice I have seen a public solicitor-type activity in which a charity is performed and people wait in queues and have great difficulty in getting service. I think that this is not the desirable way in which legal aid should be provided. It is best provided in a system whereby the people are dealt with as ordinary clients of a solicitor and are treated as equals of any other client, with financial provisions being made from the legal aid service. 
Attention must be drawn to the discussion that took place in Estimates Committee A. It was a fairly long discussion during which much helpful information was provided for the members of the Committee. But if one reads the Hansard record of that debate it is still impossible to determine the way in which the $ 12.5m, if one adds the Aboriginal legal aid to the $10m which is provided generally for legal aid, will be spent this year. This has the seeds of a great problem. A massive payment is being made. It was admitted in the course of that discussion that we could not be told precisely how the money was to be spent. A sum of $3,600,000 will be paid by the Legal Aid Office to private solicitors for work which it will brief them to do. The principles and policies under which this will be done should ensure that it is done in a regular way to provide work for the people who are best qualified, with no real possibility of elements of patronage. Those principles should be laid down. They are not laid down at the moment because there is no legislation on this subject. 
The question of legislation provides a very interesting situation because during the consideration of the Estimates I asked  Senator Murphy  a number of questions, and there was discussion as to how the policy of legal aid was to be determined. I put it to him in this way: 
I take it that there will be no legislation, no ratification of any agreements or anything of that nature which will give the Parliament an opportunity of saying: 'This is not the best way in which is should be split up '. 
In reply  Senator Murphy  referred to a number of statements that he had made in the Senate and to the fact that there had been a meeting recently with representatives of the Law Council. I took it from those answers and the fact that there was no suggestion of legislation that there was not to be any legislation. I think that legislation is highly desirable. I believe also that an inquiry is desirable. That inquiry could be set up, as a result of legislation, to consider the way in which this $10m is to be invested by the Government. In the annexures to the report of Estimates Committee A, which is before the Committee of the Whole, a very useful review of legal aid has been submitted. This is shown just after Attachment D, in the middle of the document. Part of this annexure states: 
On 25 July 1973 the Attorney-General announced the establishment of the Australian Legal Aid Office incorporating the Legal Service Bureaux. Establishment of the Office is the major step the Government has taken to make sure that legal aid is readily and equally available to all persons in needparticularly disadvantaged persons- throughout Australia. Legislation will be introduced to create it as a statutory office. 
So far as I know that is the first- I think very welcomestatement, but rather tucked away in the records, that there will be legislation. I think it is highly necessary not only to establish the Office but also to establish the principles under which we can examine it. In the consideration of the Estimates it was impossible to examine the principles or the details of the way in which these moneys should be expended. In addition to this one must determine what policy should be adopted in the distribution of these moneys. 
I refer in a different way to the matter which  Senator Greenwood  raised. When the AttorneyGeneral made his statement to the Senate on 13 December 1973, he said: 
There are 4 major problems that, I believe, need urgent attention. First, the need to provide on an equal basis throughout Australia legal advice and assistance that will fill the gap left by the Law Society or Legal Aid Committee schemes for aid in litigation and to see that advice and assistance reaches disadvantaged people; second, the need to provide legal aid in divorce cases and in proceedings ancillary to divorce; third, the need to provide legal aid for representation in magistrates courts; and fourth, the need to avoid the bottomless pit' of ever increasing costs of providing legal aid. 
I draw specific attention to the fact that it was to fill the gap, and it must be recognised surely that the filling of the gap surely does not mean a tremendously expensive scheme nor tremendously expensive offices. 
One has to recognise that there is a great deal of variation between the State legal aid schemes. In some there is a much more highly developed method and much more enthusiasm for the scheme. The State schemes provide different things. For example, in Victoria there is a considerable contribution to divorce litigation. In New South Wales last year that was not included in the scheme. One would want to see firstly whether the gaps were being filled and, secondly, what efforts were being made by way of discussion with the profession to see whether the gaps could be filled. Then the legal aid office no doubt would cover the gaps that could not be filled. 
Overall I suggest there is a need for some body which is co-operative, which has representatives of the profession, of the Government, of social welfare groups and of people who are involved in this area to ensure that these things are done on a regular basis and that the gaps are filled. There is no provision yet for such a body to exist. 
There are usually 2 parties to litigation and it might be highly desirable for one party to be represented by a member of the profession who is engaged by the legal aid organisation in the State and for the other party to be represented by the Australian Legal Aid Office because, as the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  pointed out, there is always the problem of the bottomless pit that could be involved in legal aid. There are examples known to the legal aid committees of cases in which they have given representation to both sides, and the solicitors of course have had no worry about the extent of the proceedings and the elaboration to which they might goperhaps unnecessary elaboration- in the proceedings because there is not a problem of someone having to pay. I think the Australian taxpayer has an interest in ensuring that unnecessary embellishments do not occur in litigation causing a great deal of cost to the community. 
One must recognise that there is a decrease in money going to the existing schemes this year, from $2m to $1.3m. I doubt whether this is desirable although I imagine that part of the reason is that the Legal Aid Office will deal with divorce matters more than it has in the past. But I would suggest that that reduction stands rather curiously against a great increase in total expenditure. This increase comes from a very small amount last year which makes it impossible to measure the figures of last year against the proposed figures for this year. They just do not match up in any way. There will be a lot of money spent this year. 
I suggest it is high time that we had legislation before us. It is high time that we had further discussions which will lead to a rationalisation of the scheme and enable the bulk of the operations of the scheme to be performed by the legal profession which has pioneered this area. I hope that we will have such an inquiry as the Committee recommended and a Bill which, I trust, we can examine as to its principles and application so that this matter will not remain in its present amorphous state. 
I wish to speak briefly on this same subject. I was a member of Estimates Committee A which was involved in this matter which caused controversy on that night and I supported the ruling of the  Chairman.  I think it was a proper ruling at that stage and one that inescapably should have been given. There probably has been some misunderstanding in this area. When this matter was first raised in the Committee  Senator Greenwood  was temporarily absent from the room. 
It is my recollection that  Senator Greenwood  was absent during the early part of this discussion when  Senator Jessop  and I raised the question of the extent to which we could ask questions about this area. It is correct, as the  Chairman  of the Committee,  Senator James  McClelland, has said, that at first there was a willingness on the part of  Mr Mollison  to disclose the information. In fact generally he was very helpful to the Committee when he was before it. In the course of the problem which the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  raised, it was pointed out-  Mr Mollison  also referred to this point- that there was a very grave danger of money being lost to this country as a result of the disclosure of information as to what paintings were to be purchased in this year. That is obvious and it does not need to be reiterated. 
In my opinion the restriction in the Chairman's ruling on this occasion was not a great one in any event. After the  Chairman  had suggested that this sort of question should not be pursued by  Senator Jessop  I said: 
The question was one in relation to particular paintings that were being sought. 
I am reading from page 472 of Hansard of 3 1 October. The report continues: 
I take it that nothing in that ruling would prejudice this Committee from asking questions about the policy being adopted and about the desirability of doing this in the present economic circumstances and, in fact, querying the amount of the estimate. I would have thought that these things were right within the power of the Committee, appreciating entirely what  Mr Mollison  has said. 
CHAIRMAN-There is no doubt that members of the Committee have a right to ask questions of the nature that  Senator Missen  has outlined. But I think that Committee members should respect the principles that have been enunciated by  Mr Mollison,  that his task could be prejudiced severely. 
Referring to the reservation which  Senator Greenwood  has expressed, I join with  Senator Jessop  in saying that it certainly was not in my mind, nor was it my intention, that there should be some protection of the Minister. The Minister seemed to be able to protect himself. I do not think the Committee was concerned in any way about any protection of the Minister but it was concerned about protecting information, the disclosure of which would have been undesirable. I take as an analogy a situation in which an honourable senator might well have a vested interest- I am not saying that this is the situation in this case- and might seek information which could be damaging if it were given. I would have thought that the  chairman  of such a committee had some discretion to determine whether questions are proper and whether they require an answer. 
As I read the resolution of the Senate which dealt with this matter, I do not take it as justifying in any way the contention which  Senator Greenwood  has put because it says that there cannot be a withholding from Parliament or its committees unless the Parliament has expressly provided otherwise. I suggest that this was not a case of withholding information from the Committee. The Committee ruled that this question should not be asked and should not be answered. I do not accept that an individual member of a committee is entitled willy-nilly to seek any information he wishes. If the  Chairman  makes a ruling and it is upheld, it is quite proper because it conforms with the requirements of this resolution. I regret that this incident occurred but I think the  Chairman  of the Committee acted properly, in the interests of gathering works for the National Collection and in the interests of the country generally, in not allowing the question. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. I refer to the representations constantly made by the Australian Council of Social Service, the Brotherhood of St Laurence, the poverty inquiry and the Liberal and Country Parties both during the last election campaign and since for the immediate abolition of the 7-day waiting period for unemployment and sickness benefits. In view of the rising hardship caused to a growing number of unemployed will the Government abolish this requirement in the immediate future? 
-Taking this opportunity on the first reading of the Customs Tariff Bill 1 974 1 refer to a matter of which, I believe, there should be much more public knowledge in this country and more discussion in this Parliament. It is a matter which in my opinion concerns the honour of this nation. It concerns us very much because it demonstrates that the Government, and in particular the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee),  are not taking a stand consistent with the long record of this country in matters of civil liberty. I refer in particular to certain matters I have raised previously in the Senate by way of question, namely, the relationship and condition of the Jewish community in Syria and the fact that Australia- the Australian Government- is unwilling to raise its voice in any way in support of that community and in an endeavour to reduce the travail it is now suffering. 
Some months ago, on 1 August 1974, 1 asked a question on this subject of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I will read the question because it has quite a history to it. I asked: 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of recent documented allegations made by the Executive Council of Australian Jewry and other responsible authorities concerning the persecution of the Jewish community in Syria, including numerous murders, assaults, religious persecutions, confinement to ghettos and denial of normal human rights in defiance of the United Nations Declarations on Human Rights? Has the Government made any public statement or any representations to the Syrian Government concerning these allegations? If not, will it do so at an early date. 
I say in passing that, as a result of further information I have since accumulated, the allegations I summarised in that question are more than justified. The Minister at that time replied that he had read something of the matter but did not have detailed knowledge of the allegations. He said, amongst other things: 
It is always a very delicate problem to know whether, if you press these people, they will not act worse than they are already acting. 
He went on to say that he would seek further information. I challenge whether, in a situation like this, the pressing of these people will make things worse. It is the force of international opinion which is likely to improve the situation for people who are being persecuted. 
Nearly 2 months later the Minister supplied me with a further answer. Other honourable senators would not be aware of the contents of this answer. The Minister said yes, he was aware of the documented allegations, and he referred to the International Conference for the Deliverance of Jews in the Middle East held in Paris on 3 July 1 974. He went on to say: 
The Syrian Ambassador in Paris reportedly denied the allegations of official anti-Semitism and added that such matters were internal Syrian affairs in which Syria could accept no intervention. 
Apparently even genocide is an internal matter. 
Yes, I recognise that Syria said it but you, the Minister, chose to quote it. The Minister did not choose to comment on it or criticise it. I choose to reject it because I say that this type of behaviour cannot be put aside as being something about which we Australians are not entitled to express an opinion and to endeavour, by our interests, to cause some change. The Minister said that he had not made any public statement. He went on to say in further reply to my question: 
The Government is always concerned with civil rights matters, both in Australia and other countries. As indicated above, it has been aware of the allegations in respect of Syria. In all such cases it has to consider a number of factorsthe difficulty of establishing the accuracy of reports and allegations, the need to avoid undue interference in what other countries may regard as their internal affairs, and what, if anything, can be done to improve the position of those whose civil rights are alleged to have been violated. Taking all the  relevent  factors into account, the Government does not consider that it would be appropriate at the present time for it to make representations to the Syrian Government on this matter. It will, however, keep the situation under review. 
He went on to complete his answer by telling me that there was no mission in Syria but that the Australian Embassy in Beirut had reported generally on matters affecting that country. 
I challenge practically everything in that statement. I challenge that we should say today there is any difficulty in establishing the nature of the allegations. I will refer extensively to the document of the International Conference for the Deliverance of Jews in the Middle East- the conference to which the Minister referred- entitled The Plight of Syrian Jewry'. This document details the various allegations and quotes from individuals who managed to escape from that country. I do not accept, as I have said already, that when these civil rights have been violated, other countries can pass the violations off as internal affairs. Nor am I satisfied with the idea that the Minister will just keep the matter under review. I must say that that type of answer is the answer of a Pontius Pilate. It represents an attitude of washing your hands of the affair because it is happening a long way away, it is happening only to 4,500 people and it is not our problem. I reject that attitude. 
I refer now to the document produced by that conference. In it there is graphic illustration of what has happened in Syria. We must bear in mind that when the Six Day War broke out in 1967 only about 3,000 Jews remained in Egypt of a community that had numbered 100,000 2 decades before. There were another 3,000 in Iraq, of 130,000, and about 4,500 in Syria, compared with 40,000 in 1948. Those communities, because of the hostility of the local inhabitants, obviously had been driven from the homes they had held for hundreds of years. These remnant Jewish communities were treated by the Egytian Iraqi and Syrian Governments as hostage communities open to every kind of mistreatment. 
In fact it is now only in Syria that Jews are still held as hostages in their own land. They are refused permission to leave the country. If they have managed to leave the country their relatives have been persecuted. If they are caught they often face death. 
None of the 4,500 Jews in Syria, of which some 3,000 dwell in Damascus, 1,200 in Aleppo and the rest in Kamishli, a small town near the Turkish border, is permitted to depart. The conditions under which these Jews must live constitutes a permanent offence to the principles of the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. Let me read from that Declaration two of the most relevant articles in this respect. Article 13 states: 
Everyone has the right to freedom of movement and residence within the borders of each state. Everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own, and to return to his country. 
Article 14 states: 
Everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution. 
These articles have been defied and denied time and again. 
What is the ordinary living situation of the remaining Jewish community in Syria? As this report says, Jews must not move more than  2Vi  miles from the quarters in which they live without special authorisation. They must carry special identity cards bearing the word 'Jew' in red letters. They have no rights such as that of the vote, cannot hold a job in any government office or in Syria's nationalised sector, to say nothing of the police or armed forces, be it the most insignificant. For the past 4 years no Jew has been admitted to a university. With a couple of exceptions, Jews are not permitted to have telephones, do not get driving licences, and must comply with special curfew regulations. At Kamishli, Jewish houses bear a distinguishing mark. Moslems are advised officially not to buy in Jewish shops and government and military personnel are expressly forbidden to enter them. The mail of Jews is censored, and they are under constant police watch. 
That is the normal life of the Jewish community in Syria. It reminds one of the 1930s in Germany. It is very significant that the leaders of a number of these countries were very sympathetic with the German attitude during the last World War. Apart from this being the normal situation, in addition there are only 3 Jewish schools left in the country and they are under the direction of Moslems who draw up vexatious limitations of all kinds. The few synagogues are constantly threatened and constantly damaged. 
The Syrian Government has seen fit to place many Palestinians in the Jewish quarter so constantly there are cases of assault and robbery. Quite apart from this, many examples are given in the report of the extent to which people have been murdered and injured as a result of the violence of the local inhabitants. The report states: 
Certain recent attempts by Jews to flee, given Syrian repression and unflexibility, have brought still more persecution. Should a Jew manage his escape, the Syrians take vengeance on his family. In March 1 974, eleven Jewish mothers of Aleppo were tortured for two days and nights as the Syrians sought the names of persons who had helped their youngsters leave the country. 
Then appears one of the most graphic examples and it has been mentioned even in our Press. The report continues: In March of this year three young Jewish women of Damascus by the name of Zebah and a friend of theirs named Saad slipped out of Damascus together with 2 Moslems supposed to guide them across the Lebanese border. Instead, they were forced into a cave, robbed, raped and killed. Apart from the deaths there was the humiliation caused to their families and the inhumanity shown by the Syrian Government when some days later the Syrian authorities delivered the bodies of the girls to their families in a sack for burial. Demonstrationsdangerous demonstrations in that countrytook place among the Jewish community and the result of them was that the Syrian Minister for the Interior alleged that the murderers and smugglers who had confessed, so he said, had been arrested. They arrested 2 respected members of the Jewish community, one of" them being a brother-in-law of one of the victims. The Syrian authorities accused them of murder and they are to stand trial before a State Security tribunal. We can imagine what sort of justice will be obtained in that case. 
Those are some of the examples which are given in this publication of incidents which are known, I should imagine, to many members of the Government and these examples should indicate that we as a free community ought to take a view on these matters. In the publication I have quoted are examples and illustrations of the type of pass, showing the holder's Jewish faith, which persons in that country have to carry around and produce. Also there are lists of businesses that are boycotted by the local Syrian authorities. 
I say to members of the Labor Party present and to the Foreign Minister that they have some duty to express a view on this matter. They should have a view, I suggest, because, apart from anything else of what has been said by the Federal President of the Australian Labor Party, 

 Mr Bob Hawke. In an excellent article which he wrote and which appeared in the 'Herald' on 18 November, he had a lot to say about the allegations which  Mr Hartley,  one of the Federal Executive members of the Labor Party, had previously made.  Mr Hawke  drew attention to facts concerning the Jewish Arab situation which surely must be known to all members of the Labor Party and said: 
Looking around them at the institutions and practices within the Arab states which have sought to destroy them and which  Mr Hartley  so mightily extols ('the spendid militancy of socialist Libya and Irak'- the latter which has ruthlessly suppressed its Kurdish minority and invited its citizens to come and enjoy the feast' on January 27, 1969, when it publicly hanged 9 Jews in the squares of Baghdad), the Israelis should have nothing but the utmost dread at the thought of being handed over to the tender mercies of these people. 
He also quoted President Sadat of Egypt, a leader in the Arab community, and said: 
President Sadat of Egypt could not have made it any clearer when he said on 25 April, 1972: 'The Jews must be relegated to a position of humiliation and misery'. 
I am not today talking about the whole situation or of the whole threat to Israel. I am not talking about the very massive persecutions of Jews which still occur in the Soviet Union but which have been lessened somewhat through the force of world opinion and through the influence of countries which are prepared to express hostility to this type of action because the Soviet Union is sensitive to world opinion. What I am saying to members of the Labor Party here is that if their Federal President is capable of seeing the problem, the Foreign Minister and Government supporters also should see the problem even though it concerns only 4,500 people obviously persecuted beyond any hope of redemption, save the effect of world opinion. 
There are 3 things which I hope to achieve by making these facts known today. I want to know what inquiry the Minister has made. He said that the Government was going to keep in touch. I want to know what has been found out about this. Is the Minister satisfied with these allegations which are put forward by a highly respectable World conference, chaired by the  President  of the Senate of France and comprising people from all over the world? I have referred to their publication. Is the Minister satisfied that this persecution is occurring and is he also satisfied that he can make some statement on this matter? Secondly, I hope to achieve today by mentioning this matter some further rousing of world opinion, something which might affect the sensitivity, if not the conscience, of an Arab country like Syria and which might lead to some lessening of the persecution of the people who live there. 
Thirdly, and importantly, I hope that Australia's national honour will be improved. I do not know whether Australia is silent because of hope for funds from Arab sources or because of hope for positions we might obtain in the United Nations as a result of Arab votes. I do not know what the reason is that we stay silent on the subject, but I urge the Foreign Minister and the Labor Party to remember that this is an important area of conscience. The Government should act in accordance with the position that Australia has taken and the way in which it has many times expressed its view about other countries and persecutions. In respect of South Africa, Chile, Greece and other countries we have expressed views. I am not concerned today to examine them in detail, but we have on other occasions made our feelings felt. We have expressed our belief in the civil liberties of the people of the whole world. I urge the Foreign Minister to stop this course of saying nothing and come out and express the views which I am sure the Australian people hold strongly in this matter. 
-There are a number of amendments to the definition clause, some of which affect later provisions. There could be some problem if we postponed consideration of this definition. There are at least three or four substantial amendments to the definition clause which may or may not be necessary, depending on what happens later. I do not know whether the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  is proposing that consideration of the whole of the definition clause be postponed. 
I could not be more opposed, to the expressions which have been made by the 2 previous speakers,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson and  Senator Carrick,  on this amendment. I do not believe that the 
Bill, in its initial form, would justify the title Marriage Dissolution Act'. I certainly do not agree that the amendments which I am sure we will make to this Bill will leave the slightest resemblance to that name. There is some confusion on the part of those who are supporting this amendment. If the Bill was called the 'Family Life Bill' they might have a point. The Bill certainly does not cover all aspects of family life; it deals with the aspects of law. The other night  Senator Greenwood  read the Liberal Party's Platform proposals on this matter. The Platform makes the point that when marriages break down somewhere law must intervene. 
I think honourable senators will find that it is what is known as 'family law' when studied in universities. It is true that a big part of that type of law course considers the various dissolution proceedings. But in no way is that the complete essence of this Bill or is it a fact that it is incorrect to call the Bill the Family Law Bill. Family law covers the areas where the law has to intervene. Anyone who reads the Bill and the report of the Committee will see that the intention is not the cynical intention which has been ascribed to this Bill but in fact it is an intention to buttress marriage and. where it has broken down, to deal with dissolution. To suggest that we in this Committee should not be looking primarily at strengthening the Bill and making it more of a buttressing Bill rather than just a dissolution Bill and thereby at the beginning giving it a name and confining it to mere dissolution, is a cynical suggestion and not one on the basis of which I will approach this Committee. I trust that this cynical amendment will be thrown out, because we need to look at this matter in a positive way. We have passed the second reading stage and we are now dealing with making it the best Bill possible. I oppose the amendment. 
-1 would like to make a short comment. The proposed amendment mentioned by  Senator Durack  in his closing remarks may well meet a situation which I think involves a great deal of difficulty. It is a very curious thing that in sections 46 and 69 of the Marriage Act there appear these statements in regard to what the celebrant says to people being married, namely, 'marriage, according to law in Australia, is the union of a man and a woman to the exclusion of all others voluntarily entered into for life'. That is the exact wording of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's amendment. Yet that definition is not really true because it is not the law in Australia that that is so. The law has provided for many years for dissolution. It might be said that people intend to enter into a union for life but we know that people divorce, and have done so for generations, and they have been divorced under the law in Australia. 
I think there is a curiosity in the law and I do not think the same curiosity in the same form should be put into this Bill. The proper place for this is in the Marriage Act. There ought to be a definition in the Marriage Act. I think the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  indicated that there would be amendments to the Marriage Act and I think they are well overdue in many respects. I think there should be some definition in the Marriage Act to cover even the situation of polygamous marriages or marriages celebrated under different circumstances in other countries. This would cover people who have come to Australia and want the jurisdiction of this Bill. There are statements throughout this Bill about children of a marriage, parties to a marriage and so forth. If we define marriage narrowly in this Bill- this is the point already made by  Senator Durack  and others- and if we define out of the Bill the people in that situation, it would be most unfortunate. There are some people who have become citizens in this country who would not be covered by the jurisdiction of the court. 
All we hope to do is to bring together the various strands into one court. That idea would be partially broken because in this case the law would not be applicable to them. I am not saying as a definite fact that that will necessarily happen but that, on my reading of the Bill, is the effect that a narrow definition might have. I have reservations about including any definition but on the other hand, if one is to be included, the one just proposed by  Senator Durack-  subject to the provisions of this or any other Act, which no doubt would bring in polygamous marriages- is better than the original suggestion. With some doubts I would support that amendment. 
-The amendment which  Senator Greenwood  has moved goes to the very heart of this Bill and certainly to the very heart of the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs because, if it succeeds and if these amendments are made to the definition of matrimonial cause', we may be sure that practically all that is sought of substance in the Bill will be defeated. For some considerable time it has been thought by some people that 'matrimonial cause ' probably means 'what is encompassed in the existing Matrimonial Causes Act'. But because we chose in 1959 to call an Act the 'Matrimonial Causes Act' it does nothing to define or limit the powers which the Constitution gave to the Commonwealth- namely, the powers over marriage, divorce and matrimonial causes and in relation thereto parental rights and the custody and guardianship of infants. Because of the caution and fears of members in 1959- even  Sir Garfield  Barwick writing a couple of years later said that they may well have gone further and taken the step of including other matters but they did not and they stopped there- that limitation should not limit this Parliament now in endeavouring to make a law which is comprehensive. 
The Constitution is, of course, the limitation as defined, as found by the judges, and if that is not satisfactory to the people of Australia, then it can be amended by the people of Australia. I hope that the latter will never be needed. Let me mention the case which has been referred to- the State of Victoria v. the Commonwealth- and the statements made, that all proceedings between spouses could not be necessarily within the powers. I agree with that. A matter of assault between a husband and wife may not be within the terms of this Act nor do we endeavour necessarily to include it. 

 - Senator Greenwood has had his opportunity and I will have mine now. The fact is that the definition that has been put into this Bill is a comprehensive one because what is designed is to include not only the things  Senator Greenwood  has left in his amendment but also other forces. As he admitted, the important words in his definition are: 
. . being proceedings in relation to concurrent, pending on completed proceedings of a kind referred to in either of the last 2 preceding paragraphs- 
In other words it has to be a divorce proceeding, a nullity proceeding or a declaration as to the validity of a marriage before one can institute proceedings under this Act. 
Under his definition, what would be excluded from the Bill? He mentioned the injunction provision in the Bill's definition of 'Matrimonial Cause'. That is certainly new in this Bill. It is not contained in a present Act. If that were to go, what would also go would be clause 90 which provides extremely valuable remedies for people to obtain an injunction to protect a party to the marriage or a child, to protect the marital relationship or the property of a party to the marriage. If the amendment of  Senator Greenwood  is passed then it also removes the words 'or relating to the use or occupancy of the matrimonial home', which the Attorney-General seeks to add. It would remove what is desirable, namely the power for persons to be able to approach the court- let us hope that it is a family courtwithout having to start matrimonial proceedings for divorce. In other words, they should not be forced to go to the court for a divorce before they could go to the court for a remedy to protect themselves, their home or other matters. I think that this is one of the highly desirable innovations of this Bill and, if  Senator Greenwood  's definition is accepted, it must go. 
In addition, what must also go is the attempt to take over the maintenance jurisdiction which at the moment is dealt with in many courts of summary jurisdiction. Honourable senators have seen what the Committee has written about this and what was said in the second reading debate. Anyone with experience knows that it is a highly tawdry and undesirable practice that we should continue to have the maintenance jurisdiction dealt with in a State separate jurisdiction by magistrates and along with all the criminal and other matters that are dealt with during the day. The attempt to take maintenance out of that jurisdiction and to put it into, I hope, a family court- I hope that there will be both Federal and State involvement- would be lost if this amendment were carried. Also included in that jurisdiction is the power to enforce proceedings, maintenance orders and things of that sort. At least in relation to maintenance orders they would not be covered by this new court. 
The whole proposal, which is summed up in the amendments which have been accepted by the Attorney-General and which is in the Billnamely, that these things are better united and dealt with by experienced persons such as judges of standing who have had training, knowledge and interest- must go if  Senator Greenwood  's definition is agreed to. 
The threat is posed: What if we are wrong? What if the powers which the Attorney-General and his advisers consider the Commonwealth has- I certainly consider it has them- turn out to be wrong? The answer is that there will certainly need to be speedy amendment to the law. I think that the people in this country have indicated at every poll that has been conducted that they want these matters dealt with in the manner which is proposed. I suggest that there is very little reason for thinking that these powers will be denied by application to the High Court, and we should not fear to tread in the directions in which this Bill is pointed and in which common family law should prevail. I therefore suggest that it is absolutely of the essence of this Bill that this amendment be defeated. 
-Senator Greenwood suggested that several matters should be explained further. I wish to correct 2 things. One is that I do not advocate this because of some hope or desire alone that this is within constitutional power. It certainly has to be within the power it will apply. I have confidence that it will be so found if it comes to the test. It seems to me that the words which  Senator Greenwood  used in discussing 'matrimonial cause'- all those matters arising out of marital relationship- must be looked at and interpreted these days as being very wide. There is very little- I think there is nothing- in this Bill which seems to me to be other than arising out of a marital relationship. Should it matter that the dispute which calls for the court's intervention has led to an application for a divorce or is merely a problem between the parties which is causing dissension? 
The second thing which  Senator Greenwood  misinterpreted was what I said about injunctions. I know that there are injunction powers under the present legislation. They are the ones related to divorce and ancillary proceedings. I was referring to the removal from the definition of 'matrimonial cause ' sub-clause (e) which states:  proceedings for an order or injunction in circumstances arising out of the marital relationship. 
I am saying that, if it is removed, the power which clause 90 of the Bill gives is also removed. That is a very wide power and one which is much wider than the existing one. It allows action to be taken before and without divorce proceedings to protect a person's position in a home, to protect a person from assault and so forth. 
My use of assault as an example was probably unfortunate. Matters of assault perhaps would not come very often within the ambit of a matrimonial cause. If a wife were to sue for damages for assault, matters which were matters of the normal law- the law of tort- would not be connected necessarily with the marital relationship. A better example would be if a wife sued a husband because he ran over her in the car or because he caused injury to her through the use of a car. It could be done. Clearly that is a case in which husband and wife litigation would have no relationship to the marital relationship, I agree, unless perhaps we were imaginative and found some deliberate act involved. There would be many examples in which we could find relationships between them which do not arise out of the marital relationship. I think this Bill comes well within the ambit of power. 

 Senator Greenwood referred to the cases Knight v. Knight and Kotsis v. Kotsis. I did not mention them previously, but essentially they were decisions based upon the attempt to place in the hands of registrars and commissioners the power to make decisions and to make orders. As I understand the result of those cases, it was on the basis that there was no power to put that judicial power in the hands of someone who was not a judge. That does not happen under this legislation. I think that the fears in those cases, which were cured by legislation, should not lead to any fear among members of this Committee because those cases dealt with the way in which the Commonwealth power will be exercised. I agree that the complete absence of a power under this Act would not be curable in the way that it was in those cases but would be curable only by referendum or by reference from a State. There is no suggestion in this Bill that it would be exercised other than within the Constitution. 

 Senator Greenwood said: 'Put the powers into the State courts and let them decide'. If this wide definition which covers maintenance cases now heard by State courts is not included there is no guarantee that the States will put such powers into the State family courts. They may be left in the same deplorable situation in which they are now. The cases are dealt with by magistrates all over the place, in association with a lot of other litigation. Therefore I suggest that all these powers should be put within the ambit of matrimonial cause and should be transferred, in my opinion and the opinion of some members of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, in many cases to the State courts, which are to be known as family courts. The powers should be consolidated, and there should not be a continuation of the Rafferty's rules type jurisdiction which splits matrimonial causes between Commonwealth courts, State courts, Supreme Courts and Petty Sessions courts. It leads to great expense and no justice to the parties involved. I oppose the amendment. 
I add to what  Senator Everett  said. As I understood  Senator Greenwood's  question, I do not think the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  answered all of it. Summary jurisdiction will continue. I suppose that in some places it may continue for some considerable time because of distance and the need for access to a court. There will be a necessity to retain magistrates who, I hope, will have the facilities of other courts to assist them. But I think that for some time these matters will be determined in distant parts in magistrates courts. That is not the ideal but I imagine that any new court cannot be set up immediately but by steps, particularly in distant parts of States. As time goes on one hopes that the family court, or whatever it may be, will be the one which will have jurisdiction in those areas. Probably that is an eventuality but not an immediate possibility. 
-This was a suggestion made by various counsel practising in Melbourne who suggested that the proposal was undesirable because of their experience in some cases, although not many, where this process had been used and where the facility for a judge to break through an impasse could be valuable in solving problems. It could be particularly valuable if the Family Law Court is established with a different method of operating in a more informal way because in the existing Act 3 things can happen. The judge, when he sees there is a possibility of reconciliation can adjourn the case or secondly, with the consent of the parties do what is proposed in the amendment or, thirdly, nominate an approved marriage guidance institution. It is true that the existing Act goes further and I think in an unnecessary elaborate way to say that judges shall not sit if negotiations break down and parties do not reach agreement. I would think that within the discretion of the judge, if he realises he is in a position where some other judge ought to continue the proceedings, he would arrange it. 
-No. I think that in fact if the parties are litigating some matter in the court whether it is the Family Court or the existing court and they want that decision then to force them unwillingly to enter into a discussion with the judge is hardly a likely way to effect a reconciliation. It seems to me that any forced methods like this are unlikely to work. The fact is that we thought so far as this amendment is concerned that because of the representations made by people who are practising in the field and who had found this method valuable, it was sufficiently important to put it up to the Senate as the basis of an amendment, and that is the reason it is here today. 
-There is a somewhat curious situation in regard to this amendment. I have been talking to the  Chairman  of the Senate Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee and he and I both have a distinct recollection that when this matter was discussed by that Committee the feeling was that the whole of the words proposed in the AttorneyGeneral 's original amendment No. 18 should be deleted; namely the words 'but failure to comply with such a direction does not constitute a contempt of the court'. Somehow it has not made the report and we have overlooked it, but that is my recollection. In fact the accompanying notes from the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  on amendment No. 17, the previous amendment that this alteration is made because it is not considered that any advantage could be obtained by compelling the parties to attend upon a marriage counsellor. It makes amendment No. 18 consequential upon amendment No. 1 7. So it appears that the Attorney-General has different views, we have views, and these do not appear in the amendments before the Committee. 
I take the view, quite apart from that, that these words ought not to appear at all in the clause. It is a weakening of the clause and there is no need to say at the end of it that failure to comply with such a direction does not constitute a contempt of the court. I think it does weaken the whole clause to finish it up with that invitation to people to ignore the direction or advice which they are given. I am not sure now whether the Attorney-General has moved amendment No. 18 which stands in his name but in my opinion those words should be excluded. It is my view on the evidence received by the Committee, although the Committee did not recommend finally anything on this aspect for some reason now unknown to me, that the Committee was of the opinion that these words were an unnecessary weakening and writing down of the clause. I hope that when the Attorney-General's amendment is before the Chair we will have the opportunity of voting for it and then removing the words from the end of this clause. 
-I move: 
In sub-clause (4) leave out ', but failure to comply with such a direction does not constitute a contempt of the court '. 
I realise that when I was speaking previously I was thinking of the amendment where the words appear, I think, in clause 43 and we obviously did not pick up the same matter. So it was not a committee omission at all. The same words appear and I think we should be consistent in both places. I think it is weakening to have those words in at all and it would be better to have them deleted. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales) (5.37)- Once we have put the matter of directing or advising into the discretion of the court one is in a situation in which the court, realising the discretion that the court has, would only make a direction, I suggest, in the absolute extreme circumstance because of the very arguments for the insertion of the word ' advise ' in the first place. In an absolute extreme circumstance in the judgment of the court, the court may say: 'I will not advise, agreeing with all the advantages of reconciliation, but direct'. I would suggest that the court would only make that decision in the absolute extreme circumstance. But once the court makes that decision, then to weaken the value of the direction in my judgment in the final analysis would be wrong. The court would take all the matters of which we have spoken this afternoon into account before it would even presume to make a direction because of the risk to reconciliation. But if by some good judgment the court decides to make a direction, and does make a direction, I think it must have all the weight and force of a court direction. 
I agree with the point that  Senator Everett  made, that the court may appear to do one thing and then do certain other things afterwards. But the court would have that in its mind. The court having made a decision for a direction I think it must have all the weight of the court as a direction. 
-I seem to have picked up the Attorney-General's amendment and it appears to be something of a slippery serpent. I do not think for one moment that there will be many proceedings for contempt. What I am suggesting is to take out the words that say that refusal to obey a direction shall not be a contempt. In other words, the present wording would seem to be a feeble finish to this important clause. It is up to the Committee to decide whether it wishes to take out the words. I thought it was desirable to be consistent in the way in which the Committee recommended to the Senate. In respect of another clause the Committee recommended to take these words out, which was accepted by the Attorney-General. I thought it was desirable to be consistent in this clause and take them out also. I am not convinced that it should be otherwise. I continue to support my own amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
-One part of this amendment has not been mentioned by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy).  The amendment includes new sub-clause 5, which he mentioned, and also new sub-clause 6 which we regard as of considerable importance. The present Act contains the provision that in many circumstances- there are exclusions- 3 years of marriage must proceed before a divorce can take place. That provision, of course, is not in the Bill. Even that provision was a rather spotted one because it did not apply to adultery and a number of other grounds. Therefore it was not very logically based. 
It is provided in new sub-clause 6 which has been moved by way of amendment by the AttorneyGeneral that where it appears from an application for dissolution which is lodged with the court that the marriage has not lasted longer than 2 years before the date of filing of the application certain things have to happen. The court will not hear the proceedings until it is satisfied that the parties have had an opportunity to consider a reconciliation with the assistance of an approved marriage counselling organisation or some other suitable person or organisation or where there are special circumstances by reason of which the hearing should proceed. 
The amendment is designed to cover the situation of young marriages where there may be prospects of reconciliation and where advice may be needed. The court will then direct the parties that they should have some advice before the action can even proceed. The Committee places great stress on the fact that this will be more practical than the provision which appears in the present Act. That provision did nothing, of course, to help reconciliation in young marriages. It just meant the parties had to wait for 3 years or, if they happened to have a ground of adultery, they could proceed immediately and the marriage could be broken up without any opportunity of any advice. I think this amendment could be said to be one of the more significant matters on which the Committee relies for improving the reconciliation provision of the Act. 
Proposed clause 14b is a separate clause because it deals with the advertising of facilities. It concerns another and useful point. One other argument prevailed strongly on the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs when making its recommendation to change 'notice of marriage breakdown' to notice' so that a person can seek the counselling facilities of the court. It may be highly undesirable for someone to have to go to a court, shortly after a breakdown, and sign and file a document saying that their marriage had broken down. If they go to a court and say that they are seeking the counselling facilities of the court the episode is not as traumatic as it might otherwise be. 
-There is one further reason, too. If members of the Committee look at the list of amendments which have been circulated by 6 senators they will see that amendment No. 6 seeks to add the words 'or a party has filed in the court a notice' to clause 58 (3). That should now read, if this proposed clause is amended, 'under section 14a of this Act'. The situation is that clause 58 deals with the making of settlements of property. As it is presently phrased it requires the parties to have instituted proceedings for divorce before they can come before a court for settlement of property. 
It is desired by the members of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs to extend that so that people do not necessarily have to institute divorce proceedings to secure a settlement of property. In the view of the Senate Standing Committee, one of the incidental benefits of having proposed new clause 14a ( 1) in the Bill is that there will be taken a legal step which will bring matters before the jurisdiction of the Family Court. So it will probably have greater constitutional validity than if the proposed clause were not there. In other words, a step is taken and a person is before the court, and then a settlement of property can be applied for without the person having to take divorce proceedings. That is another possible benefit derived from including clause 14a. 
-I move: 
At end of proposed new clause 1 7b, add the following new sub-section: 
Regulations made pursuant to sub-section (3) shall lake effect at the expiration of seven sitting days after the regulations have been laid before each House of the Parliament.' 
I do not desire to speak to it. 
-I seek leave to insert in the amendment the following words: 
. and such number of Senior Judges and other Judges not exceeding six in number. 
I think the intention is that the number of senior judges plus the other judges should be not exceeding six, so perhaps it should be ' not exceeding six in total '. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to his answer today in which he stated that he would welcome from the Palestine Liberation Organisation a statement that it is prepared to co-exist with Israel. Will the Government instruct its representative at the United Nations to call on the PLO to make such a statement in the United Nations? 
I propose to say a few words on this matter because undoubtedly the creation of the Family Court, whether it be Federal entirely or State and Federal, is of great interest to the members of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, lt was, of course, a major part of the recommendations that that Committee put forward- that there certainly should be a family court taking up all the jurisdictions which were otherwise spread in a great mass of courts, in different ways, and which were a constant cause of jumping from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and the cause likewise of cost and of frustration for litigants. 
I do not propose to speak at length on this subject. I have mentioned it, of course, at considerable length in my second reading speech. I do not propose to repeat the remarks I made in my second reading speech but I want to make one comment.  Senator Greenwood,  when speaking on this matter on 2 1 November proceeded to say: 
A second aspect which I think is important is that a Commonwealth Family Court would in essence be another name for a Commonwealth Superior Court with all the arguments against a Superior Court being able to be argued against a Family Court. 
I reject that argument. I do not think the Commonwealth Family Court means in any way the same thing as a Superior Court. Apart from anything else the proposal for a Superior Court, which I strongly oppose, is a suggestion that we would merely put a certain part of the jurisdiction into one section of the Superior Court which would be called the 'Family Law Division'. It might be given certain powers and certain facilitiesthe sort that we would like to see given to all parts of the Family Court. But there is a great distinction between that and what is proposed now by the Committee report. 
Apart from anything else one of the proposals of the Superior Court Bill was that judges could be interchangeable between divisions of the Court and that they could move from one division- Family Law- into another division. That is completely contrary to the concept which the Committee had of a Family Court because what is designed is that the people who will be appointed to a Family Court will be those who have a special touch for that sort of work. They will be people who, both by training and interests, are concerned with this type of work. They would not be interchangeable with judges who might be quite suitable in other areas of law. Consequently, this, to my mind, bears no resemblance to the idea of a Superior Court. True, the language in setting up the court is similar because the language in setting up any sort of court is similar. But the concept which is involved in this matter is quite different. It is well known to the Senate that I and other members of the Committee propose to seek the creation of not only a Commonwealth Family Court but also of State courts that will operate along with the Commonwealth courts. I do not propose to go in detail into the way in which that will work or into the details of our amendments. 
-They can work all right. I am quite sure of that. I am quite sure that if we do set up 2 lots of courts, one working mainly, of course, in the appeal area and the other mainly in what we might call the footwork area- that is judges who go around the countryside, doing the hard work. They will be limited by age so that, on the whole, they will be younger judges- the system will work well. Whatever system is set up will, of course, require the judges of the system to work in order to make it effective. Therefore, one cannot expect in legislation to find it spelt out word for word. One must rely on the fact that the establishment of courts to which judges are appointed, who are particularly interested and. capable in that area, and judges who want to make it succeed, will mean courts which will work. 
The concept of co-operative federalism has been stressed by the Liberal members of the Committee in particular. That requires us to have the uniformity which a Federal Family Court will bring because it will bring together on appeal and in other ways the concepts which are desired to be found in family courts. We will find, I think, that that will be needed. At the same time we will need an involvement of the States in this matter. I do not propose, as I said earlier, to argue at length on this subject. I want to say that I certainly support the concept of a Family Court being created as proposed in this Part. I hope that this Senate will see the wisdom of adding to that the State concept which the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee recommended and mentioned in its report. I hope that both these provisions will go through the Senate. So far as the heading is concerned, it would be a shock to the nation because what the nation desires is evident from polls that have been taken and from correspondence. If a family court is not set up as a new concept, as a new court moving into a new field, it will be complete defeat for this Bill. I support this Part of the Bill. 
I was proposing not to refer to Professor Finlay 's article at this stage on the substance of this matter because we are now dealing merely with the title of this new part of the Bill. As to this excellent article titled 'Family Law, Family Courts and Federalism',  Senator Greenwood  has read many excellent parts of that article but he neglected the conclusion. The Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee is entirely in agreement with the idea that you cannot reform the summary courts and get them sufficiently into the position where they can deal properly with these matters. What Professor Finlay has said is correct. One might conclude from what has been said that Professor Finlay 's conclusion was that there should be only one court- the State courts- whereas that is entirely wrong. On page 587 of his article he deals with a proposal which was in the Bill at that time, namely for a superior court, and he goes on to say: 
The appropriate solution may lie in the creation of a specialised court at intermediate county or district court level. Such courts could be established as state family courts and invested with all matters of family law within both federal and state power. 
The Superior Court of Australia could be entrusted with appellate jurisdiction in family matters within federal power, leaving only appeals in state family matters to be dealt with by State Supreme Courts. 
I must say that I cannot agree with him that we should have 2 different streams of appeal. He contemplated at that stage that there would be a superior court to deal with appeals and also State courts. He then goes on to say in words with which 1 entirely agree: 
The establishment of a system of state family courts administering predominantly federal law would have a twofold effect. It would firstly be a practical way of achieving a unified structure within the federal system, bringing the jurisdictions together by a community of interest inherent in a common subject matter, lt would also be a way in which the States could bc given a feeling of playing a meaningful part in the federal system, acting together under a Commonwealth law in a spirit of 'co-operative federalism'. 
-What the Committee is proposing is entirely consistent with that. Professor Finlay also says on the same page that there is a need for co-ordinating the two. But  Senator Greenwood  ignores the fact that Professor Finlay insists that there must be 2 different sets of courts. One was a Federal superior court but since then we have got rid, I hope, of the suggestion of a Federal superior court in this context. We have a federal family court proposed under this new Part and State courts proposed along the lines that Professor Finlay has advocated for some considerable time. 
Three members of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee advocate State courts and this is contained in the report as a suggestion. It is the only suggestion in the report but, of course, it does not bind the 3 Labor senators who are perfectly free to take a different view. However, the suggestions made are consistent. Professor Finlay obviously recognises the need for a Federal court and I think that should be made clear. 
-I understand the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  proposes to move an amendment in the following terms: 
Insert the following new clause:- 17b. (1) A court, to be known as the Family Court of Australia, is created by this Act. 
The Court is a superior court of record. 
3 ) The Court consists of a Chief Judge, the Senior Judges and the other Judges from time to time holding office in accordance with this Act. 
An amendment is proposed to proposed new sub-clause 1 7b (3) by Senators Button, Chaney, Durack, Everett, James McClelland and myself. Therefore I move: 
In proposed new clause 17b sub-clause (3), delete all the words after 'Chief Judge 'and insert the following: 'and such number of Senior Judges and other Judges as may be prescribed by Regulations from time to time'. 
Proposed new sub-clause (3 ) at present reads: 
The Court consists of a Chief Judge, the Senior Judges and the other Judges from time to time holding office in accordance with this Act. 
Very often one finds in Acts of this nature a provision stating how many judges can be appointed, how many senior judges there will be and how many other judges there will be. It is understandable that this cannot be done with a court of this nature. It is not as yet certain as to what its size will be, what parts there may be to it and what appointments it will need to make. Therefore it is understandable that the numbers should not be set out in a specific way at present. However, it is the opinion of the members of the Senate Committee that there ought to be some continuing control in this Parliament of the size and the development particularly in the critical initial stages of this Act being brought into operation. So this amendment has been sought by members of the Committee. We feel that this legislation should be brought back to the Parliament on occasions when members are to be appointed so that the Parliament will have an idea of how the operation is going and how many members there will be, because the numbers could be very extensive or very few. 
I draw attention, because it is relevant, to a subsequent amendment I propose to move on behalf of 3 members of the Committee in relation to a proposed new sub-clause (4) providing for the actual operation of those regulations, It will provide that regulations should not be made under which appointments are made and which can subsequently be disallowed by one of the Houses of the Parliament. That would be entirely unfortunate in its effect because the regulations would have operated to appoint judges who then would still be members of the court. So that is the effect of the second amendment. It is the feeling of members of the Committee that the implementation of the Bill and the appointment and numbers of judges and the proportion of them should be matters within the purview of this Parliament, particularly during the period when the Bill is coming into operation. 
In regard to the question raised by the AttorneyGeneral about the provision for 15 sitting days, which of course is the next amendment after this one that we are considering, from discussion among some members of the Committee here it seems that 7 days would be an adequate period. The period of 15 days is the total time suggested for disallowance under the regulations, but I see no reason why this cannot be done more speedily. 1 would be quite happy with the suggestion to make it 7 days. 
The suggestion has also been made that amendment No. 32, if it were changed in this way, would probably succeed in achieving what is desired. It could read: 'and such number of Senior Judges and other Judges not exceeding six in total, or such greater number as may be prescribed by Regulations from time to time'. 
-May I just say that - 
I was merely going to draw  Senator Guilfoyle  's attention to proposed clause 21a which does not relate to that but I think does relate to her question. 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Greenwood's amendment)  be left out. 
Those of that opinion say aye; to the contrary no. I think the noes have it. 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Greenwood's amendment)  be left out. 
Is the Committee familiar with the words that  Senator Greenwood  intends to leave out? 
My understanding was that the Attorney-General was going to add words and had agreed to do so and that consequently no words were to be left out. I must admit that I do not understand this amendment as being designed to leave out words. Rather I understand the Attorney-General proposes to add words. 
-I likewise agree with the view expressed by  Senator Everett.  I suggest also that if we carry the amendment to be moved much later for the creation of a family law council, and I am confident that we will, that will be a council which will have judges and a lot of organisations represented on it and it would be inappropriate to consider such important things as changes of regulations that will come up being taken to the judges from that council. It would be more appropriate if they came to the Parliament from the Council. The judges would be some of many people on that council and I think it is appropriate in those circumstances that those rules should be made by the Executive and subject to the scrutiny of Parliament. 
-I refer to the remarks of  Senator Greenwood  and, so far as the proposed amendment for a State court is concerned, the amendment which is submitted by Senators Chaney, Durack and Missen. Proposed new clause 20 states that reference in terms of proposed new section 18, among others, to the Supreme Court of a State shall be taken as in relation to State Courts. So, the matter is covered so far as our amendment is concerned. I oppose this amendment. 
No, it is not necessary to stand it down. We can bring it in later. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Sub-clause agreed to. 
I welcome very much the phasing out of the summary proceedings. I have had a long experience of them too and I have long thought that this was a pretty poor way to deal with very important matters of a marital nature. 
-Yes, Professor Finlay does. I have in my hand an excellent article by a Miss Dorothy Kovacs, a senior teaching fellow at Monash University. The article is entitled: Maintenance in the Magistrates' Courts: How Fares the Forum?' I shall quote a part of that article. Honourable senators should read this article because it refers to all areas, not only the effectiveness of the orders that are made and the enforcement of them, but also the way in which they are made, the lack of proper care to counselling and so forth. The author says at one stage: 
The fault here may lie with the law itself, rather than in the institution entrusted with its administration. Nevertheless, as long as it remains the law it may pertinently be asked whether a magistrate with little training and no time may reasonably be required to apply it. His dilemma is complete when parties appear, as they often do in this jurisdiction, without legal representation, so that the harassed magistrate hears no argument on the law. The result is that many decisions will be made on the basis of a poor understanding of the legal issues involved, and that to a great extent these errors will pass undetected. 
In fact there is a promise in this particular part of the Act that these will be phased out, of course, by proclamation, not immediately. The Standing Committee was quite aware of the fact that particularly in distant parts of some States it will take some time for family judges to be involved entirely in the area. I would say this part is a highly desirable one. The sooner it is brought into full force the better. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Clause 1 8, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 19 
1 ) The jurisdiction of the Superior Court under this Act shall not be exercised except in accordance with Proclamations under this section. 
The Governor-General may, by Proclamation, fix a date as the date on and after which the jurisdiction of the Superior Court under this Act may bc exercised in respect of all proceedings, or a class or proceedings, in such States and Territories as are specified in the Proclamation. 
A party to proceedings instituted or continued under this Act that are at any time pending in the Supreme Court of a State or Territory, being proceedings that could, at the date of the application under this sub-section, have been instituted in the Superior Court, may apply to the Superior Court for an order transferring the proceedings to the Superior Court, and the Court may order accordingly. 
Amendments (by  Senator Murphy  )- by leave- taken together and agreed to: 
In sub-clause ( I ) leave out "Superior" and insert "Family". 
In sub-clause (2) leave out "Superior" and insert "Family". 
In sub-clause (6) leave out "Superior" (wherever occurring) and insert " Family ". 
-I move: 
Insert the following new clause: 
( I ) As soon as practicable after the commencement of this Act. the Australian Government shall take steps with a view to the making of agreements with the governments of the Stales providing for the creation of State courts to be known as Family Courts, being agreements under which the Australian Government will provide the necessary funds for the establishment and administration of those courts. 
Where, whether before or after the commencement of this Act. a State has created a court known as a Family Court, the Governor-General may, by Proclamation, declare thai, on and after a date specified in the Proclamation, this section applies to that court. 
Where, by virtue of a Proclamation under sub-section ( I ), this section applies to a court, this Act has effect in relation to the institution of proceedings on or after the date fixed by the Proclamation, and in relation to proceedings so instituted, as if references in sections 1 8, 24, 7 1 and 73 to the Supreme Court of a State were, in relation to the State in which the court referred to in the Proclamation is established, references to that court, and that court is invested with federal jurisdiction accordingly. 
The Governor-General shall not make a Proclamation under this section in respect of a court unless he is satisfied that- 
arrangements have been made under which Judges will not be appointed to that court except with the approval ofthe Attorney-General of Australia; 
Judges appointed to that court are by reason of training, experience and personality, suitable persons to deal with matters of family law and cannot hold office beyond the age of 65 years; and 
arrangements have been made under which full use will be made by that court of the counselling and welfare facilities that are available to the Family Court of Australia. 
References in this Act to a court of summary jurisdiction shall not be read as including references to a court to which this section applies. 
This is an amendment which the Liberal members of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs at least, consider of great importance to the operation of this Bill. The amendment inserts the provision forecast in debate today and before, of the opportunity for State Family Courts to be created to operate and to have Federal jurisdiction conferred on them. Perhaps I should first go through the amendment to explain the significance of the parts which we want to have adopted by this Committee. Subclause ( 1 ) of clause 20 reads, in part: 
. the Australian Government shall take steps with a view to the making of agreements with the governments of the States providing for the creation of State courts to be known as Family Courts, being agreements under which the Australian Government will provide the necessary funds for the establishment and administration of those courts. 
It is recognised that the power over matrimonial matters is a very substantial Commonwealth power and I think it is right that the Commonwealth should exercise the financial responsibility in respect of the administration. The procedure has been rather incongruous in past years, with the States having to maintain certain courts. Often maintenance matters have to be pursued in those courts because the Commonwealth authorities require women who are deserted to take proceedings and the State incurs the expense. It is suggested that whatever we do, it ought to be a continuing Commonwealth financial responsibility. It is suggested therefore that agreement should be entered into by the Commonwealth with the States to enable the setting up of courts which will then get Federal jurisdiction conferred on them under this clause. 
The other sections of this amendment bring into operation the other parts of the proposed new clause which confer jurisdiction, which is Federal jurisdiction, on the State courts when they then operate. Sub-clause (4) provides conditions under which it is proposed that only the Commonwealth should grant this recognition,  that only it should accept the foundation of such courts, because it is desirable that there be retained a considerable uniformity in the way in which the principles of this legislation are to be carried out. The 3 conditions set down are that the Attorney-General should have the right to approve of the appointment of State judges to this Court-- 
I am sure it is without precedent. I am sure that a lot of new things are without precedent, and that never frightens me. I do not take that as any argument against what is proposed. In fact, I see great merit in this proposal, quite apart from other reasons. We will probably see appointments that are going to be pretty free of any political touch about them. It is not going to be suggested that they have not been well thought out, when we take into account the fact that both the State and Federal governments have to consider the qualifications of the person appointed and both have to be in agreement about the appointment. I do not imagine that this would cause a great deal of trouble. 
It is also suggested that one of the conditions should be that judges who are appointed should by reason of training, experience and personality be suitable persons to deal with family law. Of course, that is something that is already to be laid down in the Bill itself with respect to the Federal Family Court. Perhaps the most vital matter in regard to the creation of State courts is that the judges appointed to them will not serve beyond the age of 65 years, because I think it has generally been agreed in debate that in this field of the law it is highly desirable that judges should be limited in age. The last condition which we suggest is that there should be seen to be full use being . made of counselling and welfare facilities, so that it is not just the Family Court of Australia; the State courts should have equal access to those facilities. Thus, while there is cooperative action between the Federal and State courts, they are using the same type of facilities that are available. 
Some of the arguments in this regard have been already canvassed. I do not have to stress further the desirability that most of the judges, particularly those who are doing the hard work of the Court, should not be too old. I suggest also that there are other advantages of considerable importance in this amendment. Firstly, in regard to the Federal Court domains, it would mean that the Federal judges, I would think, would be doing matters of appeal and major matters and they would be sitting in the same buildings as the State courts. I would have thought that it was obviously desirable that the courts should be operating in the same environment and working together. Applications of importance could be made to Federal judges, but I would imagine that most of the applications- maintenance matters, custody matters and divorce matterswould be dealt with by State judges. 
What is the advantage of this from the point of view of the State? I have suggested that the appointment of the judges would probably be non-political. I also put to the Committee that it would involve a constant interest by the State in the family law area and that this is desirable. We have already mentioned the ex-nuptial situation and have said it is desirable that those cases should be dealt with along with legitimate children in the one court. Obviously a State would be highly inclined to transfer the right to deal with such matters to a court which was a State court. In addition, there are the constant areas of flux- the questions of juvenile delinquency and adoption. It may well be- and some research workers have suggested that it should be- that these matters might be transferred to such a court. It would therefore be open for the States to transfer such rights. We must face the fact that social welfare matters will continue to be an extremely important State function and that therefore their interest should be maintained in the State courts which are dealing with family matters. 
In debate at the Committee stage much mention has been made of the Federal Constitution. It has been suggested that there are some doubts about the powers of the Family Court. I think it would be agreed that if the States, by creating the State Family Courts, confer the right to deal with these matters on the State courts, this will remove a great deal of the fear, and I think that it would be preferable to do that. The opinion throughout is that one could always say: 'You have a Federal court. There might be a clash, there might be an overlap with the State court'. I do not think that in practice this will happen. If you appoint judges who have the same general interest in and general experience of these problems, you will find that they will work together in the 2 courts and thus will carry out the intentions which this legislation has in mind. 
Federal responsibility will not be impaired by the creation of State courts because the Federal Government is here given the opportunity to arrange agreements with the States. Of course, it can insist on early deadlines so far as those arrangements are concerned. If the States are not prepared to co-operate, then no doubt Federal judges will have to be appointed in those States - a regrettable necessity but an inducement for the States to enter into reasonable arrangements with the Commonwealth. I do not feel that Parliament will have other than the power to supervise the arrangements because of the amendments that we carried earlier today which require the number of courts to be a matter of the regulation supervising power of this Parliament. I feel that this can be brought into operation. If both the Commonwealth and the States operate sensibly in this area, we will have, I think, the best of co-operative federalism and the best of convenient arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States. I urge the Committee to support the amendment. 
-I desire to say a few words in reply to some honourable senators who have spoken.  Senator Chaney,  I believe, has dealt very effectively with other honourable senators.  Senator Everett  made 5 main points. One was perfectly correct. It is true that State court judges will not sit on the full Federal court because they cannot be in a Federal and State court at the same time. Of his other 4 points, two were sheer pessimism and two were clearly wrong. He has in mind that the wages of the judges might be lower if they served on State courts and therefore they would not want to serve on such courts. That has already been dealt with. I suppose he would, logically and consistently, draw attention to the fact that under this Bill the Federal court itself will consist of senior judges and ordinary judges on different salaries. Perhaps he ought to suggest that they will have a different attitude. I do not think that we will find that this is so. Judges in different courts will have clearly a common responsibility and interest in these affairs. The Court will attract decent judges. I have sufficient faith in the people around the community to know that there are people of capacity to fill the positions. 

 Senator Everett 's other point of pessimism was to suggest that legal aid would not be applicable equally to the State courts that are operating under this legislation. I have heard nothing from the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  to suggest that. I think it is an unworthy suggestion. I think the Commonwealth recognises what its responsibilities are, and they are considerable in the provision of legal aid in matrimonial matters. I have no reason to think that there would be a differentiation between State and Federal courts in this regard or against the people who are litigants in State courts. 
The first of the 2 matters that were clearly wrong was the suggestion that we would have 2 concurrent streams of appellate jurisdiction that there could be appeals in 2 different directions. What  Senator Everett  forgot when he mentioned that was that there is a provision in clause 71 of this Bill which relates to the appeal position. Under that clause appeals from the Supreme Court go to the full Family Court and the provisions of sub-clause 3 of my amendment make it clear that references in the various clauses, including clause 7 1, to the Supreme Court of the State are to be taken as references to the Family Court of the State. Consequently appeals will go from the new State Family Courts to the new full 
Federal Family Court. So there is nothing whatsoever in that suggestion. That was a red herring of the worst degree. 
His other suggestion that State Courts would not be able to exercise various jurisdictions that were federal likewise would not hold up an examination if in fact Federal jurisdiction were conferred on these State courts. I find it extraordinary that, having had so long in which to consider objections to this provision, he should come down with such a weak group of objections. After all, paragraph 37 of the report of the Standing Committee, which was not read, sets out the one possible solution put forward by the Committee of the way in which Federal and State jurisdictions could apply. Members of that Committee have spoken in the debate. It is true that the Liberal members of that Committee had the greater enthusiasm for this solution. There is no other solution proposed apart from one sole Federal court with judges remaining until they die. They would continue unless we can change the Constitution. This is all that can be suggested. 
-The Attorney-General has said that a proper pension scheme has been in operation. It is a scheme whereby federal judges may be induced to leave their posts and to take the pension. If they do not, they will be much worse off. It is my opinion that such a scheme would not succeed and that constitutionally you will not be able to deny the judges their life appointment by inducing them or forcing them to accept appointments by making their pension rights very bad if they do not accept retirement at 65 or 70 years of age. I hold no great confidence that that type of scheme will succeed in achieving the effect that the AttorneyGeneral has suggested. 
I turn to  Senator Greenwood  who gave, he said, lukewarm support to our scheme. If it is lukewarm support I would hardly like to experience the cold water if he were to throw it around. I recall that  Senator Greenwood  asked me to consider, over dinner, various proposals. Of course we have considered these proposals for some months, and therefore there is no difficulty in giving an answer to them. He put the proposition that there is no provision to allow parties to go to the South Australian Family Court and to utilise it. Of course there is a proposal. The proposal- this is set out in paragraph 37 of the Standing Committee's report- is that it would be very easy for a State Court to be set up in South Australia because it has the existing mechanism. 
But it will obviously require something in the way of legislation. The South Australian court it set up merely by administrative arrangements. There is no legislation creating that Family Court. It is obviously necessary, in the terms which we have put in this amendment, for the South Australian Court to be established by State legislation. What will make this easier is the fact that it is already existing as a very suitable and well operating body but it obviously ought to have State legislation behind it.I am surprised that  Senator Greenwood  thinks that it ought to be just utilised without that legislation being carried into effect. 

 Senator Greenwood also did not like the idea in this amendment, that the approval of the Australian Attorney-General should be sought for the appointment of State judges. He suggested that instead consultation would be all that would be necessary. We all know, do we not, that consultation means nothing? If you merely say that you have to consult the Attorney-General before you make the appointment then you can consult and do whatever you like. 
Of course the real point to this is that the Commonwealth, in our view, will in the future pay the costs- we hope- in respect of all this legislation and the operation of the scheme and therefore it has the right to ensure that suitable judges are being appointed in line with the whole of the principles which our report and this Bill enshrine. Therefore I believe that approval is something which is satisfactory and should be expected. He said to us: 'Well, you should not require the States to force judges to retire at 65 years of age. The States should say whenever they wish them to retire'. There we see the very essence of a scheme solely involving State courts with judges retiring at different ages and without any uniformity. That is the very way in which one would lose the essential unity and purpose of this scheme. I put to the Senate that all those questions have been considered and none of them is relevant or necessitates any amendment to the proposal we have put up. 
The Attorney-General has said that since 1901 we have contemplated federal legislation. We contemplated it but it took 58 years before it actually came into operation and then those in power dared not go as far as they would have liked. I suggest to him that the Commonwealth now can impose and create a court of great significance but it ought not do so at the expense of riding over the States and depriving them of any interest in the continuance of this scheme. 
We feel that the amendment that has been presented here today is one which will give the States a real opportunity. If they do not take it, then the Federal Attorney-General has a right to proceed and appoint judges. But I hope that this Committee will recognise that in this compromise situation, in this arrangement with two forms of courts operating I am sure in cooperation and with the same common purpose, it will be found to be a successful method of working this Bill. 
Question put: 
That the proposed new clause 20  (Senator Missen's  amendment) be inserted. 
-This amendment stems from an unanimous recommendation of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Members of the Committee felt that whatever period might be determined as the period of separation it ought to be one that had been created and was already in existence before divorce proceedings started. I say this mainly on the basis that people should not be encouraged to leave premises, start proceedings for divorce and then not be willing to pull back from those proceedings when they later changed their mind. The Standing Committee felt that there ought to be a clear period. That period would be applicable to whatever period the Committee of the Whole finally decides on. I commend the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales) (8.49)-I move: 
Leave out the clause, insert the following new clause: 
( I ) An application under this Act by a party to a marriage for a decree of dissolution of the marriage shall be based on the fact that the marriage has broken down irretrievably. 
In a proceeding instituted by such an application, the fact that the marriage has broken down irretrievably shall be held to have been established if. and only if, it is proved to the reasonable satisfaction of the court that 
a ) the other party to the marriage has behaved in such a way that the applicant cannot reasonably be expected to live with that party, or 
the parties to the marriage have separated and thereafter have lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than three (3) years immediately preceding the date of the application and there is no reasonable likelihood of cohabitation being resumed, and provided that the Court is satisfied that, in all the circumstances, it is not harsh and oppressive to either party or contrary to public policy to grant the relief sought. 
The Court, upon being satisfied of the existence of the fact that the marriage has irretrievably broken down, shall make the appropriate decree. 
This issue was canvassed fully in the second reading debate and I do not propose to speak on it at any great length. All honourable senators would be aware of the diametrically opposed points of view held by some honourable senators in relation to this Bill. It has euphemistically been called a Bill for the no fault dissolution of marriage. 
My amendment seeks to put the onus of responsibility on the court to show that a marriage has irretrievably broken down and cannot be repaired and that the parties cannot be brought together again. My amendment proposes that the court should have regard to all the circumstances which have brought about the failure of the marriage, such as the conditions of the marriage and the grounds for divorce which are inherent in the present Matrimonial Causes Act. The court must look at all those things before it implements the provisions of the Family Law Bill in relation to the dissolution of marriage. 
In my speech in the second reading debate I referred to a statement made by a number of people in high office in the community- I do not propose to mention their names again- people from religious groups in the community, notably in New South Wales, at least one Queen's Counsel in New South Wales and a number of other members of the legal profession. They have said that clause 26 of the Bill is objectionable because its effect is to permit divorce at the will of one party, without any objective test that the marriage has in fact irretrievably broken down. They have also suggested that adultery should be included as a separate ground. I have not included that suggestion in my amendment because 1 believe that the court would have to look at that condition as well as at other conditions of a marriage to be satisfied that it has inevitably and irretrievably broken down. I am not a lawyer but 1 understand that there are about 14 conditions including desertion, brutality and bestiality. I made my point in relation to those grounds when I spoke in the second reading debate. 
This Bill provides that one party to the marriage can say that there is to be a separation. This could happen within a period of days of the marriage being carried out either through church procedures or by civil registration. One party can say, without any ground except incompatibility, that he or she will separate from the other party. Under the amendment of the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy),  which has now been agreed to, a period of 12 months separation can provide the ground for the dissolution of the marriage. Without going through all the argument again I suggest that the judgment that honourable senators have to make- and, when the Bill is disposed of here, that members of the other place will have to make- is whether that in itself is a complete and absolute ground for dissolution of marriage, which marriage has been carried out in good faith between one woman and one man on the basis of a contract for life. That is the concept of marriage in the law as it stands, and was the concept even before the operation of the present Matrimonial Causes Act. But in this Bill we are departing from that concept in its entirety. We are simply saying that there does not have to be any proof of grounds or any justification. 
Simply because one of the parties, who have married and have taken the solemn vows, decides that he or she does not want to go on with it and wants a separation, under this provision of the Bill he or she will have the right to the dissolution of the marriage and to all that stems from it, such as maintenance and custody of the children of the union. Those matters will be dealt with later on. I will not canvass them now. I will come to the question of whether the period of separation should be 1 year, 2 years, or 3 years. That is only a subsidiary part of the amendment. 
What the amendment purports to do is to say that the court must be satisfied that there are grounds by which the procedures of this Bill can operate. Inherent in that would be the grounds that the court has to be satisfied - 
The ultimate purpose of the amendment is that it brings in a period of not less than 3 years. Other amendments have been circulated which refer to a 2-year period and others which refer to a 1-year period. I think that we can dispose of my amendment on the basis of the fundamental principle. If my amendment is not agreed to then we can discuss the other variations. An amendment will be moved by  Senator Laucke  which I think has real merit in its application and, indeed, an amendment will be moved by  Senator Baume  which also has application to this question of the period of time. The real thrust of this amendment is that there should be grounds for divorce and the court has to be satisfied that there is grounds for divorce. The marriage should not be allowed to be dissolved on the basis of a decision of one of the parties without there being some grounds which the court is satisfied are bona fide. 
I would like to follow the very lucid explanation which  Senator Baume  has made of this point by saying that he very accurately quoted me and my agonising in the Committee on this subject. I do not think he quoted from the Committee something which is said on this particular subject: 
On ultimate balance the majority of the Committee is of the opinion that it would not be desirable to amend clause 26 (2) in order to cover such cases which they consider will  normally be  the subject ofthe exercise ofthe court's jurisdiction under clause 90. 
It is right that there was a great deal of agonising on this question in the Committee and I suppose I was the last to be converted to the view that there should not now at this stage be a second ground, and that certainly was subsequent to the Committee report being presented. I hold the view, on ultimate balance at the present time, that there is not a case for a second ground, an immediate ground, of divorce. I say that for a variety of reasons. I had the fear that if there was not an immediate ground, and if there was a long period of separation as the other ground, there may be injustice to some people who are living in rather intolerable circumstances. It was my feeling that this probably would require some further ground. I must say 1 am convinced now, as I was at all stages, that one year is a sufficient period and that people who will be suffering those intolerable circumstances are sufficiently protected by clauses like clause 90 and by the right to go before the court for ancillary relief before then. I am not saying that this may work out in practice to be entirely so. I hope that if this is not so the members of the Family Law Committee which is to investigate this matter will be the people who should put up a proposal if it changes thought. I am satisfied that the removal of fault from the determination of grounds is a pretty important matter and that it will greatly reduce the amount of bitterness and hatred and the litigation period. I have always thought that in the case of 'this is an unnecessary area in which to fight' you cannot eliminate what you may call the conduct of the parties, certainly in the areas of custody and, 1 think, in maintenance. 
There are occasions when the position and even the conduct of the parties must be considered. 
The Committee was strongly of the view that fault should be removed as far as possible. Irrespective of whether it is suggested that the person behaved in a way that another person could not reasonably be expected to live with him or her, the difficulty is that the proposed clause is very vague in its language and it is very difficult to know just how it would be applied.  Senator Baume  's amendment refers to misconduct that is grave and weighty. Again it is difficult to know where to go. What is the type of proof required and what evidence is to be used to prove that fault? One could imagine many contested divorces. There is another problem also. If there is to be any real possibility of reconciliation succeeding there must be some time for that to operate. If a party can go immediately before a court and start proceedings for a divorce, I think the opportunity for a successful reconciliation is greatly restricted. 
Taking all these things into account, and recognising the force of the arguments which both speakers have expressed, I am reasonably satisfied now that there should not be an attempt to go into one of these new and vague grounds or methods of proof. We may be proved right or wrong. The situation is not irretrievable in the sense that it will not be possible to change this legislation. It may be easier to change it in the future. Very few people may suffer any disadvantage by not having the second ground but a lot of people may suffer if we reintroduce the fault ground into this section of the Bill. 
-I am afraid that I find this amendment more difficult even than the last because there are various things in it which are different and which, I think, would make for a very unreasonable law. This is a provision that the period of separation shall be 3 years. It would be longer, of course, than the present requirement of 2 years which, although we call it desertion, really is separation in the way in which the courts interpret it. So, the amendment will involve a longer period of separation. I point out that the period is 3 years, or 12 months in other circumstances, immediately preceding the date ofthe commencement of the hearing and that is the amendment we have just thrown out. I would think that is probably just a matter of a discrepancy. 
I draw the attention of the Committee to 2 things. In the first place the period will be 3 years or, if there are no children and there is consent, 12 months. I strongly urge the Committee not to introduce the idea of consent into our divorce legislation. This would be highly unwise in any event and it provides an excellent blackmailing means for a party to a marriage. If a wife can say to her husband that he has to wait 3 years for a divorce, but if she consents he can get a divorce in 12 months, there is something there that will be worth a lot of money. There is a bargaining factor. There is an opportunity for the parties then to make decisions based upon the amount of money the husband, or the wife, will pay to get an earlier divorce. I urge the Committee not to put into the grounds for divorce any aspect of consent. 
The second ground is curious as well. It would reintroduce the 14 grounds that have been attacked up and down the Committee and up and down the country for years. It would introduce adultery, desertion and so forth. What is more, if people read the Family Law Bill they will not find the grounds within it. They would have to turn to a repealed Act before they could find the grounds. They would have to look at all the ancient law which has developed under these grounds to determine what their rights will be. I suggest that this would introduce all the elements of fault back into the law and it would provide, as I have already said, these 2 very different periods. The English law has been quoted. The English Act, on the view of most observers, is a disaster. It did not provide for irretrievable breakdown. It resurrected and created some 5 new grounds comprising a mixture of fault, consent and various other things. I think the last thing we should do is to try to imitate the English law. I oppose the amendment. 
It is the intention that that should be so. The situation under the Bill as it stands is that if somebody wants a settlement of property there is a dispute but they may not want divorce proceedings. The Bill would require them to start divorce proceedings just to get a settlement of property. It may well be that parties separate and do not intend to proceed with divorce at that stage. They may desire to split up the matrimonial property and make their own arrangements. Later they may proceed with divorce. As the Bill stands it is almost an encouragement of divorce. It almost forces people into divorce proceedings when they may not have made up their minds to do so. The Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee thought that this should not be forced on them. They should have the opportunity to obtain a settlement of property just as they can obtain custody or maintenance orders before starting divorce proceedings. The intention of the Committee with this amendment is that they should not be forced into divorce proceedings to achieve these results. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is he aware that the State Government of Victoria, after receiving approximately $30m from the Australian Government and from pharmaceutical and other benefits, is left to meet the remaining cost of hospital expenses for pensioners and that this net sum amounts to $73. 5m? Does the Minister agree that the cost of pensioner hospital care should be met substantially by the Australian Government and that its payments to the States should accordingly be substantially increased? 
I join with the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  in urging the Senate to reject this amendment. It is a very important amendment. It is one which I think will destroy most of the benefits of this Bill and which will reverse the progress which has been made if it is in fact adopted. As one of the majority of the Committee who supported this recommendation in the Committee's report, I now feel more strongly than ever that it is a wise and desirable thing that one year should be chosen as the period. 

 Senator Davidson made two or three points which I think should be answered. He suggestedI agree with him- that the law must promote a sense of responsibility in marriage. The Family Law Bill is not the only place in which that should be done because the Marriage Act is also a greatly responsible aspect in that respect. When we consider amendments to that Act no doubt that point should be in the forefront of our minds.  Senator Davidson  also pointed out that not only is a sense of responsibility necessarythe Bill goes a long way towards that end- but also we must not impose an undue hardship on those persons who come before the courts to obtain a divorce. The period which should be chosen as proof of irretrievable breakdown is a matter of judgment.  Senator Davidson  says that 12 months is not enough. He illustrates- in this I am afraid he shows that he does not quite understand the concept of separation- that illness or duty may take a person away. Separation has been defined for many years. It is a matter which has been considered by the courts. To separate and live apart means that there must be a conscious decision, lt means that something must be done. It is not sufficient to say that it is merely an absence due to no deliberate act. Therefore we must come to the conclusion that this one year period is a year of deliberate separation which will be shown to have taken place. 
The separation by the party who is applying for a divorce will have to be established to the satisfaction of the court. 
The party concerned will have to establish that he or she intends to live apart from the person to whom he or she is married and who is insane. 
That is a further point, of course; 2 years makes no difference whatever in this regard. In fact, it probably makes the position worse. 
I want to turn to what  Senator Durack  said in relation to this matter. Last evening he made some points in support of his case for a 2-year period. In the first place, he made the point that there is a great deal of evidence from experts in this field who have found in their experience that people going through the turmoil of marriage breakdown may well be separated for a period longer than 12 months but are ultimately reconciled. From my reading of what the experts have been saying to us, there is not very much evidence of that, and it certainly has not been my professional experience over many years that many people are reconciled after they have been separated for a period of 12 months. I think that such cases are rare, and if we are to act upon that rarity for the purpose of making the period 2 years we will be doing a great deal of injustice to those people- it would be something like half the present petitioners- who will have to give up an opportunity of an immediate ground for relief. 
The rare cases will overwhelm half the cases in this community.  Senator Durack,  who is noted for his fairness, said this in justification for his case: 
That is why I have brought forward this amendment for the period of separation to bc 2 years. I can conceive that maybe that is going a little too far, but I just have the feeling that 12 months is too short a period of time, lt does seem to be unrealistic to talk about any period between 12 months and 2 years and that is why I have settled on 2 years. 
I would suggest that even in  Senator Durack  's mind there is a great deal of obscurity and doubt about this matter. As a matter of judgment he has chosen 2 years. As a matter of judgment I go for' one year as being a desirable period. In addition to the various experts referred to by the Attorney-General who have said that they believe that one year is sufficient, let me refer to a statement appearing in the Melbourne 'Herald' of 22 November of this year from the Reverend Bruce Reddrop who is and has been since 1961 the Director of the Church of England Marriage Guidance Council in Melbourne. He, like many other religious leaders and marriage guidance people, has expressed his views favourably on this Bill. 
An impression has been given abroad that religious leaders are mostly against this Bill, whereas if we leave out the city of Sydney my experience as a member of this Senate is that throughout the rest of the country they are overwhelmingly in support of the general principles of the Bill. In this newspaper article Reverend Bruce Reddrop says: 
I see the Family Law Bill as sound, imaginative legislation which fills a long-felt need. 
In referring particularly to the 12 months' period, he says this: 
The 12 months' separation envisaged by the Bill is. I believe, an accurate indication that the marriage has broken down. No doubt there arc cases where marriages have been resumed after a year or more of separation, but I believe they are very few. 
That is the experience of a man who has directed the operations of that organisation for the last 16 years. I believe it is accurate and true. 
I do not propose to repeat the arguments which I raised in my speech in the second reading debate on this Bill. There are arguments of fairness to petitioners referred to by the Attorney-General. There are arguments in favour of the Family Court now envisaged in this Bill. It will be a helping court, an involved court, as distinct from the past where there has been no involvement until one came to the judgment of the court after perhaps  2lA  or 3 years. Therefore the situation is quite different. Of course, the second year, as I have said, is the one in which far from there being much prospect of reconciliation trouble breaks out and permanent harm is done to the relationship within families. 
More than 60 per cent of people, as illustrated by the Morgan poll, believe that the period of separation should be one year or less. We must remember that most of those who voted in this poll plumped for less than one year. But when a poll was taken of those who wanted a period of separation of 2 years the vote over Australia was 3.7 per cent and in Western Australia, from which this amendment proceeds, it was 2 per cent. Are we to impose the opinions- and I believe the figures to be accurate- of 2, 3 or 4 per cent of people on 60 per cent of the community who I really believe recognise that one year of separation is a fair amount. I support the original Bill and oppose the amendment. 
I oppose this amendment both in principle and in practice. I take up what I said last night about the dangers of importing into legislation the idea of consent, with all its blackmailing possibilities which would enable the parties to agree in terms of money before they give their consent. It is a matter of consent. This is why in practice it should also be rejected. The amendment says that there may be a decree if the separation is for 12 months provided that neither party opposes the dissolution of the marriage. In practice this would be extremely difficult. Until one reached court one would not necessarily know whether the matter was opposed. If the other party came along and wanted to oppose the divorce the court no doubt would be obliged to re-open the matter- no doubt the rules would permit it to do so- and the case would then be lost. The case might have been going for many months. Therefore in practice I think it is inoperable. In theory and in principle I think it is inoperable. I admire  Senator Baume  's attitude of trying to obtain a compromise which might be acceptable but I find it objectionable in principle to introduce this idea of consent into the legislation. 
-I agree with that. I further say that when  Senator Greenwood  suggests that a genuine separation and a genuine living apart should be shown I point out to him that is the purpose of the amendment moved by the Attorney-General which embraces the words sought to be included in this clause by the Standing Committee.  Senator Greenwood's  amendment, which suddenly comes upon us to remove part of this clause and to say that the parties cannot be considered to be living separately and apart unless they are living in different residences, is certainly something which would be a great affliction on those who cannot leave the matrimonial home because of their financial position or because they do not have people to whom they can go for assistance and live. I think it would be a great blot on the law if we put  Senator Greenwood's  amendment into the legislation. It would be against the principles which have been developed over a number of years. It is highly desirable that we should be fair to those people who cannot leave the matrimonial home but who are still separated in all reality. They have enough difficulty in proving separation. If they prove that they are separated in reality they should have the opportunity to obtain a divorce. I think it would be a mistake for this Committee if it adopted the amendment moved by  Senator Greenwood. 
I move: 
Delete sub-clause (4). 
This clause relates to the matters to be taken into consideration in proceedings with respect to the maintenance of children. There is a provision already in clause 55 which states:  if the court is satisfied that the provision ofthe maintenance is necessary to enable the child to complete his education (including vocational training or apprenticeship) or because he is menially or physically handicapped, and, in that case, the order continues in force until that day or the expiration of that period, as the case may be. 
That is the concluding part of the provision with regard to maintenance for children. Sub-clause (4) states: 
The court shall not make an order under sub-section (3) unless it is satisfied that having regard to the child's standard of living and the availability of educational and social benefits, refusal to make the order would subject the child to substantial hardship. 
The Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs was of the opinion that it was not necessary to impose a standard that the child had to establish was necessary for him. It is unlikely of course that in many cases this will operate. There may be scholarships and other benefits to the child. It is felt that to put such an onus on the child to go to the court and satisfy the court that it would be a substantial hardship unless maintenance was continued was wrong and unsatisfactory and was requiring too high a standard of proof. The Committee felt that this clause should be deleted. 
I have an amendment to this clause, which relates to urgent maintenance cases. The amendment relates to cases where there is a very urgent order and there is no time for the court to investigate entirely the financial circumstances either of the party or of the child. A suggestion was made to me by a Sydney solicitor and I think it is a worthwhile one. Looking at the fifth line of clause 56 we see that the court may order payment, pending the disposal of proceedings, of such periodic sum as the court considers reasonable. A periodic sum normally would be $20 a week, $30 a week, or some such figure. It is suggested that in an urgent case of a wife left by a husband there may have to be a mortgage payment made which, if not met, would lead to the loss of the house, or some other payment which needs to be made but which could not be described as a periodic payment. Therefore I move: 
After the words 'periodic sum' insert the words 'or other sums'. 
This is to meet urgent cases where the court does not have time to investigate the facts and to make a payment of a different nature. 
I have another amendment to move on behalf of members of the Standing Committee. I move: 
At the end of sub-clause (3) add the words 'or a party has filed in the court a notice under section 14a of this Act.' 
That wording is different from what was circulated in the printed amendment. The circulated proposed amendment refers to a notice stating that the marriage has broken down. We changed the situation in clause 14a and I think what I have moved covers it. This means, in effect, that an application can be made for a settlement of property without requiring a party to institute divorce proceedings. It will stop the situation of someone having to institute divorce proceedings to obtain settlement of property. They will be able to do it if they file in the court a notice calling for conciliation. This will probably have greater constitutional validity because there already will be proceedings in the court. The Committee recommends that these words be inserted in the clause. 
-On behalf of the 6 members of the Committee, I move: 
Leave out sub-clause (4), insert the following sub-clause: 
An order with respect to the maintenance of a party to a marriage ceases to have effect upon the remarriage ofthe party unless in special circumstances the Court having jurisdiction otherwise orders. '. 
The amendment moved by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  reads: 
An order with respect to the maintenance of a party to a marriage ceases to have effect upon the re-marriage of the party. 
The Committee has decided that its amendment should make provision for the fact that there may be certain special circumstances in which such an order should not cease. This is a matter, I think, of policy difference between the AttorneyGeneral and the Committee. The situation may arise where somebody re-marries a man who is either in poor health or in poor financial circumstances. She may have a maintenance order in respect of the husband who is a wealthy man and fully able to contribute to her maintenance. She may be keeping children in private schools and in circumstances upon which the first husband insists. It is felt that there may be special circumstances in rare cases where there should be a continuance of the court order. It should be so only when the court having jurisdiction so orders. Of course, the onus is on the person to maintain continuance of that order. This is a matter on which we may make our decision quite easily, but it is the Committee's opinion that that right should continue if the court thinks that it should. 
-I move: 
At the commencement  of new  sub-clause (4a ) insert: 
Subject to the provisions of section 55 (3)'. 
Sub-clause (4a) as amended by the amendment moved by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  now reads: 
An order with respect to the maintenance of a child of a marriage ceases to have effect upon the adoption or marriage ofthe child. 
What is desired by the 6 members of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs is to insert at the commencement of that clause the amendment I have just moved so that it would then begin with the words: 'Subject to the provisions of Section 55 (3)'. Clause 55 (3), which we mentioned some little time ago, deals with the maintenance of children and says that a court may continue an order beyond 18 years of age for the maintenance of a child where it is considered necessary to complete his education. What is desired by the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs is that clause 55 (3) should be read with sub-clause (4a), otherwise they would appear to be inconsistent. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 62. 
1 ) In proceedings with respect to the maintenance of a party to a marriage or of a child of a marriage, if there is in force an order (whether made before or after the commencement of this Act) with respect to the maintenance of that party or child by the other party to the marriage- 
made by the court; or 
made by another court (including the Superior Court or the Supreme Court of a State or Territory) and registered in the first-mentioned court in accordance with the regulations, the court may- 
discharge the order if there is any just cause for so doing; 
suspend its operation wholly or in part and either until further order or until a fixed time or the happening of some future event; 
revive wholly or in part an order suspended under paragraph (d); or (0 subject to sub-section (2), vary the order so as to increase of decrease any amount ordered to be paid or in any other manner. 
Sub-section (2) does not prevent the court from making an order varying an order made before the date of commencement of this Act if the first-mentioned order is made for the purpose of giving effect to section 5 1 . 
Amendments (by  Senator Murphy)-  by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
In sub-clause ( I.), paragraph (b) leave out the words in parenthesis. 
In sub-clause (3) leave out 'section 51' and insert 'this Part'. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. Clause 63 agreed to. Clause 64. 
I ) In proceedings under this Part, the court may set aside or restrain the making of an instrument or disposition by or on behalf of, or by direction or in the interests of, a party, if it is made or proposed to bc made to defeat an existing or anticipated order in those proceedings for costs, maintenance or the declaration or alteration of any interests in property. 
The court may order that any money or real or personal property dealt with by any such instrument or disposition may be taken in execution or charged with the payment of such sums for costs or maintenance as the court directs, or that the proceeds of a sale shall be paid into court to abide its order. 
The court shall have regard to the interests of, and shall make any order proper for the protection of, a bona fide purchaser or other person interested. 
A party or a person acting in collusion with a party may be ordered to pay the costs of any other party or of a bona fide purchaser or other person interested of and incidental to any such instrument or disposition and the setting aside or restraining ofthe instrument or disposition. 
In this section, 'disposition 'includes a sale and a gift. 
-I move: 
In sub-clause ( I ) insert before the word 'may' the following words: or a Family Court established under clauses 19a and 20 of this Act '. 
This amendment will enable appeals to go from the Family Court to the Full Court of the Family Court. 
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Judiciary Act 1903-1973, an appeal does not lie to the High Court, except by special leave ofthe High Court, from a judgment, decree or order of the Supreme Court of a State given or made under this Act, whether in the exercise of original or appellate jurisdiction 
Amendment (by  Senator Murphy)  agreed to: 
Leave out the clause and insert the following new clause: 
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Judiciary Act 1903-1973, an appeal doth not lie to the High Court from a judgment, decree or order of a court exercising jurisdiction under this Act, whether original or appellate, except- 
by special leave ofthe High Court; or 
upon a certificate of the Full Court of the Family Court that an important question of law or of public interest is involved. '. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause  73. 
1 ) A person aggrieved by the decree of a court of summary jurisdiction of a State or Territory exercising jurisdiction under this Act may, within such time as is prescribed, appeal to the Superior Court or to the Supreme Court of that State or Territory. 
The Supreme Court of each State is invested with federal jurisdiction, and jurisdiction is conferred on the Superior Court and on the Supreme Court of each Territory, to hear and determine appeals instituted in that Court under this section. 
A court shall determine an appeal under this section in accordance with- 
the law in force on the date on which the hearing of the appeal is concluded: and 
the evidence that was before the court of summary jurisdiction and any other evidence adduced with the leave of that court under sub-section (4). 
On the hearing of an appeal to which this section applies a party is not entitled to adduce evidence except with the leave ofthe court- 
granted on the ground that the evidence relates to matters that occurred after the hearing of the proceedings in the court of summary jurisdiction: or 
granted in special circumstances on another ground. 
Amendments (by  Senator Murphy)-  by leave- taken together and agreed to: 
In sub-clause ( 1 ) leave out 'Superior 'and insert 'Family'. 
In sub-clause ( 2 ) leave out 'Superior' and insert ' Family". 
Insert the following new sub-clause:- (2a) The Governor-General may, by Proclamation, fix a date as the date on or after which appeals to the Supreme Court of a specified State or Territory under this section may not be instituted. '. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause  74. 
( 1 ) Subject to sub-section (2) and to the regulations, all proceedings under this Act shall be heard in closed court. 
Amendment ( by  Senator Murphy)  agreed to: 
In sub-clause ( 1 ) leave out 'under this Act' and insert 'in the Family Court, or in another court when exercising jurisdiction under this Act.'. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses  75  to  83-  by leave- taken together and agreed to. 
Clause  84. 
I ) After the commencement of this Act, no person shall be imprisoned or otherwise placed in custody by reason of contravention of. or failure to comply with, an order made in a matrimonial cause and any person who is in a prison or other custody al the commencement of this Act as a result of contravention of, or failure to comply with, such an order shall be released forthwith. 
2 ) The release from prison or other custody under subsection ( I ) of a person who was in that prison or custody by reason of failure to pay any moneys docs not release the person from any liability to pay those moneys. (.3) This section does not affect the operation of subsection 49 (6) or sub-section 90 (3). 
Amendments (by  Senator Murphy)-  by leave- taken together and agreed to: 
In sub-clause ( I ). after 'order' insert 'for the payment of money'. 
After clause 84 insert the following new clause:- 84a.  (  1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a court having jurisdiction under this Act may punish persons for contempt in the face of the court when exercising that jurisdiction or for wilful disobedience of any decree made by the court in the exercise of jurisdiction under this Act. "(2) The regulations may provide for practice and procedure as to charging with contempt and the hearing of the charge. 
Where a person in contempt is not a corporation, the court may punish the contempt by committal to prison or fine or both. (.4) Where a corporation is in contempt, the court may punish the contempt by sequestration or fine or both. 
5 ) The court may make an order for- 
punishment on terms: 
b) suspension of punishment; or 
the giving of security for good behaviour. 
Where a person is committed to prison for a term for contempt, the court may order his discharge before the expiry of that term.'. 
Clause, as amended, and proposed new clause agreed to. 
Clause 85. 
The regulations may make provision for and in relation to- 
the enforcement by a court of a State having jurisdiction under this Act of orders to which this section applies made by a court of another State or of a Territory: and 
the enforcement by a court ora Territory having jurisdiction under this Act of orders to which this section applies made by a court of another Territory or of a State. 
Amendment (by  Senator Murphy)  agreed to: 
Leave out sub-clause (2) and substitute the following subclause: 
The regulations may make provision for and in relation to the enforcement in a State or Territory by a court having jurisdiction under this Act of orders to which this section applies made by a court in another Stale or Territory.'. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 86 to 89- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 90. 
1 ) In proceedings ofthe kind referred to in paragraph (e) of the definition of 'matrimonial cause' in sub-section 4(1). the court may make such order or grant such injunction as it thinks proper with respect to the matter to which the proceedings relate, including an injunction for the personal protection of a parly to the marriage or of a child of the marriage or for the protection of the marital relationship or in relation to the property of a party to the marriage. 
Amendments (by  Senator Murphy)  proposed: 
In sub-clause ( 1 ), add 'or relating to the use or occupancy ofthe matrimonial home'. 
After sub-clause ( I ) insert the following new sub-clause:- ( I  a)  In exercising its powers under sub-section ( I ), the court may make an order relieving a party to a marriage from any obligation to perform marital services or render conjugal rights.' 
At the end of the clause add the following new subclause: 
Where an act or omission referred to in sub-section (3) is an offence against any other law, the person committing the offence may be prosecuted and convicted under that law, but nothing in this section renders any person liable to be punished twice in respect of the same offence. '. 
-These are important amendments. Perhaps attention might be drawn to them because they add considerably to the strength of what can be done by the injunction power under clause 90. Now it will include orders being made relating to the use or occupancy of the matrimonial home, which will be of great value to people who are in a home but who do not necessarily require divorce action at that stage. It will also include orders relieving a party to a marriage from any obligation to perform marital services or render conjugal rights. This will be a great improvement in the Bill and will greatly widen the Family Court's power to make orders irrespective of divorce proceedings. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 91. 
1 ) The Attorney-General may establish a Family Law Advisory Committee, consisting of persons appointed by him in accordance with sub-section (2 ). 
The Committee shall consist of a Judge ofthe Family Law Division of the Superior Court of Australia and such other judges, magistrates, officers of the Public Service of Australia or of a State, representatives of marriage counselling organizations and other persons as the AttorneyGeneral thinks fit. 
The function of the Committee is to advise the Attorney-General on the working of this Act and on other matters relating to family law. 
The Attorney-General shall appoint one of the members to be the  Chairman  of the Committee. 
The members ofthe Committee shall be paid such allowances in respect of expenses in connexion with their duties as are prescribed. 
Meetings ofthe Committee shall be convened by the  Chairman  or the Attorney-General. 
) The Committee shall meet at least once a year. 
The  Chairman  shall cause records of meetings ofthe Committee to bc kept and shall promptly report to the Attorney-General on the deliberations ofthe Committee. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it correct that the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development has assessed Australia's foreign aid for the year 1972 at 0.59 per cent of the gross domestic product and for 1973 at the lower figure of 0.44 per cent? Is it a fact that the percentage of foreign aid has declined still further in 1 974? In view of the effects of devaluation and inflation, does this mean a further decline in foreign aid in real terms? In the light of the Prime Minister's talk to the United Nations on the need to close the gap between developed and developing nations, does the Government propose to do anything to improve its poor record in this field of foreign aid? 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  I rise to support the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  in what is, as I think many of us will say, a regrettable but necessary course of having to vote against the Bill in total. It is a Bill which, as has been pointed out, is not dealing with one major issue, it is dealing with 34 major alterations to the Electoral system. It constitutes a Pandora's box of various gifts that are to be given to the Australian people. No one has any idea of what will flow out of that box if it is opened. 
Many of us have the view that in this Bill there are ideas which have attraction and which promise some improvement to the electoral system. But it is quite clear that the carrying out of those ideas has not been well thought out. It is clear also that very little information has been given to members of the Parliament as to the reasons why the various amendments have been put forward. Where is the background material? What investigation has been conducted as to the way in which the various reforms will operate? 
A short time ago  Senator McAuliffe  pointed out that the systems of voting used in the caucus of the Australian Labor Party are under challenge. Apparently there has been a strong challenge to the electoral system used merely inside that political party. It seems strange to me that a Party which has such vigorous challenge going on inside it as to its own internal electoral systems should feel the certainty that it has in preparing the system it now puts before the Parliament without consultation with the other parties, the means of operating the whole electoral system in this country. 

 Senator Withers has already pointed out the time factor insofar as this Bill is concerned. It has been in existence for only a very short period, unfortunately. It was in the House of Representatives for something like 10 days or so during which debate was permitted on it for 3 hours. Although the Bill provides for something like 34 major alterations, the House of Representatives did not go into Committee to examine it. The Bill, including those 34 suggestions, was railroaded through the House of Representatives. Common sense does not suggest to us that it could be possible that all members of the Australian Labor Party are in complete agreement with all of the 34 proposals. We have had this Bill before us for a couple of days or so. 
It has been pointed out that all the political parties in this Parliament have organisations in the States with which consultation on the various details of this Bill would be necessary. Surely the parliamentary parties should not be expected to ignore the advice, consideration and experience of the party organisations in the various fields of action and make decisions on this Bill, but that is what we are expected to do in connection with this Bill. It is for those reasons, among others, that we must regrettably vote to reject the whole of the Bill. I am sure that rejection of the whole of the Bill, if that should happen, would not be the end to this whole matter. It may be that there will then be a turning towards consideration on the basis put forward by the Opposition in both Houses, that is, that a committee comprised of members of all political parties in both Houses of the Parliament should consider not necessarily in the public forum but in a non-political atmosphere the merits and demerits of the proposal. 
There are, as I have said, some difficult propositions contained in the Bill. There are, for example, difficulties of implementation. Let us take the idea which I think has a lot of attraction, that party names should be registered and that party affiliations should be shown on the ballot paper. I have no doubt that there is very considerable public interest in this idea. It is my personal opinion that it would save a great deal of confusion and a great deal of informal voting. But when one looks at the details of the proposals put forward one sees that extraordinary powers are sought to be given to the Chief Electoral Officer. He can accept a name or he can reject it if, in his opinion, it is an unsatisfactory name. I think that a great deal of excessive power is sought to be left with the Chief Electoral Officer without any power of appeal being provided in relation to the determination of the names of parties. 
Another proposal is the provision for the registration of parties, which requires a party to nominate candidates in something like 25 per cent of the electoral divisions in a State before it can be requested. That is a very arbitrary figure. A party which may be of significance in the country as a whole may be much stronger in one State than in another. Therefore why has it been decided that 25 per cent has to be the figure in a particular State for a party to obtain registration? I cite those as problems- the idea may be goodthat could arise in the execution of an idea like this. 
-Perhaps I am being a little more generous in saying that the ideas may be good. The result might not be disastrous. There is a point of view, of course, that small parties have a right to exist just as individuals have a right to stand for Parliament in their own right. There is no reason in the world why a Parliament which consists of a number of major parties should introduce legislation which denies to other parties the opportunity to obtain public support, if they can, by building up their strength and entering the Parliament. 
I wish to give one more example on this aspect of the difficulty of implementation. There is a widely held view that deposits lodged are too low and that, with inflation, there is a case for increasing them. That being so, what is the specific reason for increasing the deposit of a Senate candidate by 5 times- from $200 to $1,000- and of a candidate for the House of Representatives by only  2lA  times- from $ 100 to $250? I do not understand the logic of that. It is certainly not explained in the accompanying notes. We are merely told that that is the amount required to be lodged. I think that there is a lot to be said for the counter argument that this is not the way in which to deprive people of the opportunity to stand for, say, the Senate. If in the eyes of many people there are too many candidates standing for the Senate the idea of using the power of the purse to deny such persons the opportunity of putting themselves before the public is not the most desirable way of overcoming that problem. It may be better to require such a person to have more electors sign his nomination or to follow some other course of action. We should not necessarily use the power of the purse to deprive him of the opportunity of standing for the Parliament. 
Another matter which has been mentioned is the provision in the Bill for the introduction of an optional preferential system of voting. That is a matter to which one would expect considerable consideration to be given. I have made a great deal of investigation of this matter and have views on it. I must say that the more I have looked at it the more I have realised there is better available evidence of the actual effect of the system. One must make judgments on these proposals and there is very little way of judging exactly what will be the effect of the introduction of an important reform like that. It ought to be a matter which is considered very thoroughly by a committee of the Parliament. The Committee could call in the experts in the electoral field and work out what should be the result? 
In the course of the debate in the House of Representatives suggestions were put forward by  Mr Wilson  and  Mr Giles,  both South Australians, on a system of simplified preferential voting which they suggested might be a much more effective way of changing the system. It retains the preferential system but it enables a person to vote for one person- for the Liberal Party, Country Party or Labor Party man that he chooses- and, because the preferences of the parties have been registered, that one vote will bring with it the total preferential scale of the parties. Thus they suggest that there would be much less informal voting as a person would vote only once. But if a person wanted to vote in a different way- in a different order of preference -he could write out his preferences on his ballot paper. I think that this system may have merit. It is an idea which should be investigated thoroughly. 
There is a lot to be said for the registration of how-to-vote cards. Those who have been active in electoral matters over many years know that every now and then there is some sort of attempt at fraud and some effort to try to fake howtovote cards in the interests of a particular candidate. I think that there is a lot of merit in the registration of the how-to-vote cards of candidates. 
As I have said, there is a lot of merit in investigating this simplified form of preferential voting which Messrs Giles and Wilson have put forward, but there is no suggestion in this Bill of investigation of any other scheme. 
When one looks at the second reading speech of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  on this fairly important matter one sees that one page has been devoted to this proposal and that no real argument or evidence has been advanced in support of the proposal. Consequently it is not surprising that members of this Parliament who are concerned about the fairly high rate of informal voting. They realise that every effort ought to be made in this community to ensure that people do not get disbarred by mere accident or mere inability to count, and they are often confused as to what is the best system to achieve the result which is sought. 
I repeat that this is obviously another matter on which there ought to be an investigation conducted by- I was about to say impartial- a committee comprised of people of all parties. They would have their own interests, which they would serve. They would also be there to look at the evidence. From this could come agreed areas where reforms were necessary. 
I will take the risk of mentioning two or three matters in this Bill which could be called agreed areas and which seem to me, purely personally, would have a considerable amount of merit if they were on their own. The proposal to prevent candidates changing their names so that they can obtain a better place on the ballot paper and sometimes cause confusion with some other popular candidate is, I think, a matter of merit. There is also the idea that there should be a draw for positions on the ballot paper. It seems to me that the time has long since gone when we in this country ought to be considering that whether one's name states with 'Z' or' A' should not matter in the electoral process. Why on earth should not the same system apply to candidates for House of Representatives elections as applies to candidates for Senate elections? Why should there not be a draw for positions? It seems to me that there is a lot of merit in that proposal. 
I have heard of the circular card for some years. I think that circular cards might be rather difficult for the workers in the field. I think it has some merit in theory, but it would be very difficult to operate. I do not dismiss the idea. It is one of the ideas that ought to be looked at by a committee. 
I think that might be so, because some names would be upside down. I think there could be a lot of incidental difficulties. 
The third suggestion in this Bill that is worthy of consideration- there are more than three- is the change to 6 p.m. closing of the polls, which operates in Queensland at present. I know that again one must consider the people, including the strict Jewish community which would not be able to vote, and whether it would be adequate for them to record a postal vote. Many of the people who have worked for the Liberal Party, the Labor Party and the Country Party over the years have worked at the polling booths until 8 p.m. One wonders whether it is necessary in these days for the polls to be open quite as long. 
I cite these examples as some of the many excellent ideas in this Bill. Some of the ideas are not necessarily well drafted, and they would not necessarily be free of embarrassment for all parties. 
I believe the Government is to be condemned for the way in which it has introduced a Bill on a very serious and very important matter which is of great concern to the people. Perhaps it has done so and forced the matter along in this way for the purpose of setting up the first leg of a double dissolution situation hoping that this may appeal to the people if a double dissolution should come about. If this is the reason, it is an unworthy reason. I suggest that the Government ought to take notice of what can effectively be done in this Parliament by joint committees comprised of members of different parties. The Government should withdraw this Bill. It should take a constructive attitude and agree to look at all the alternatives. It should not regard this as a matter for a party but as a matter for democracy and for all members of the Parliament to seek to reach agreement. Therefore, I oppose the second reading of this Bill and regret that it has been forced upon us by the activities of the Government. I urge it, even at this late stage, to think again. 
I do not desire to say any more than I have already said. I am quite happy to move that progress be reported. I move: 
Thai progress be reported. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Progress reported. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Will the Government, in view of the increased hardship caused to the growing number of unemployed persons, immediately abolish the requirement that a seven day waiting period must elapse before unemployment and sickness benefits become available. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that the Minister for Transport, exercising powers under the Roads Grants Act, has required the Government of Victoria to supply an immense quantity of detailed information as to arterial and sub-arterial road projects, including alternate projects, considered but not now being pursued and projects to be carried out only with State moneys? Is the Minister aware that the Victorian Minister for Transport has estimated that the expense involved in supplying this information, much of which is irrelevant, will cost the State many millions of dollars a year? Does the Minister now agree that such requests for information are wasteful and should be withdrawn? 
-I desire to address my remarks on this Bill to a particular section which gives me considerable concern. I refer to clause 5 in the Bill which is the validating provision. I draw attention to the original memorandum which was circulated in respect of this Bill. Among the main purposes of the Banking Bill, it says that it is to validate, for the purposes of any civil proceedings, acts or transactions already entered into or which might be entered into in future without proper exchange control authority and that the right of the Government to prosecute persons for breaches of the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations will not be affected. The last part does not concern me at all, but the first part does. Clause 5 of the Bill as it stands validates all actions that may be done. I understand there are many actions which are, in most cases I imagine, quite innocent breaches of the regulations. 
The further explanation in the memorandum says: 
This clause provides for the automatic validation, for the purposes of any civil proceedings, of any act or transaction done in the past without the proper exchange control authority. 
I notice from a further amendment that is intended to be moved tonight that that is to be changed. It is proposed, under clause 5, to exclude from that validation any act, thing, contract or other transaction the validity of which has before 3 December 1 974 been called in question for that reason in any proceedings whether or not the proceedings have been completed before that date. There is a further sub-section which is irrelevant for the purpose of my argument. So it is proposed to exclude from a date those proceedings where actions have been taken in the courts and where there has been reliance presumably on the illegality of the act not having obeyed the regulations. 
I should also mention that during the afternoon we received a further addendum to the explanatory memorandum which explains amendments which no members of this chamber, so far as I know, had until quite recently. I do not think honourable senators would have had the amendment until a few minutes ago, except I and I think  Senator Cotton  had it earlier this evening. So far as the further amendment is concerned the explanatory memorandum states: 
The purpose of the exemption is to enable proceedings which would be effected by retrospective validation to continue to be decided by the courts under the existing law. The exemption is considered to be equitable. 
One of the purposes of my speaking tonight is to challenge whether all those exemptions will be equitable and to suggest that we should look very carefully at that amendment. I have circulated another amendment which would have the effect of saying, so far as the exemption is concerned, that it should be left to the court that is hearing the case to say whether it is just and equitable that that particular piece of litigation should be excluded and whether the right of claiming illegality should be allowed to that particular litigant. I wonder why we are receiving these amendments at such short notice. I wonder why we are receiving explanatory memoranda in the afternoons and the amendments themselves at night. The result is that I have been able to draft my amendment only this evening and I have not been able to consult my colleagues on the matter. I will be moving, at the conclusion of the second reading debate, that the Committee stage be adjourned until the next day of sitting so that there is proper opportunity to consider the amendments and the import of them. 
The important significance is that while this is all retrospective legislation and while it is validating actions which I think have been taken mostly innocently by many people and companies over the years, we are going to exclude what, I understand, are very few cases which are either before the courts or, on one reading of the Government's amendment, perhaps have even been completed. The Government's amendment states that the validation is not to apply to persons where litigation has taken place before 3 December. The amendment goes on and adds: 
Whether or not the proceedings have been completed before that date; 
I raise a doubt as to whether the proceeding which has gone to court and been finished could now be re-raised or an appeal could be lodged. Would it be possible now to raise this question of illegality? I do not speak here from a position of not being without representations from persons who think that they will be affected by the Government's amendment and who believe that strong representation may have been made to the Government for the purposes of individual gain. So in fact persons will in litigation be greatly affected by whether this amendment is adopted. If that is so we should scrutinise it very carefully before this Parliament adopts legislation which will affect litigation. 
It is well known, I think, by lawyers in this chamber that very often claims of illegality on the basis that people have not obeyed regulations is a pretty unmeritorious defence where parties have entered into contracts and agreements and acted on them for years and then one endeavours to get out of the contract on the basis of some illegality which he suggests voids the whole contract. I suggest that when the Government says that the exemption it suggests is considered to be equitable it really all depends on the circumstances. One may be thinking of actual cases. But if in fact in litigation the defence of illegality has been raised by way of blackmail or by way of bargaining without any real suggestion of moral wrong on the part of the litigant, I suggest this Parliament should not, by its legislation, give some favoured position so far as the litigants are concerned. That is why I hope to have the Senate consider tomorrow whether it would not be fair that this issue should be determined by the court in which the litigation is to be heard. That court will have all the facts before it. It will have before it the circumstances of how the defence arises, how the parties have acted, how long they have proceeded and whether or not they should proceed. Why should we pick out the date 3 December and say that if people had put in some defence before that date they must be protected? Of course, they may have done that for unworthy motives. They may have just done that in the hope that this legislation might be amended. I suggest that that is no real test, it is no desirable test as to whether the validation which the Government considers should overwhelmingly be given to people who have not obeyed the regulations should be denied to parties who are in fact in this situation. 
What I am merely saying at this stage is that this matter should be looked at very carefully by the Senate, because it is very easy, in the rush to get legislation through at this time, to pass something that will in fact be of great benefit to some persons who make representations and speak with a loud voice. Amongst other things I refer to the way in which this amendment is being proceeded with and the way in which it has not received proper consideration by the parties in this chamber. Nor has very much material been put before the Senate as to the reasons for the amendment, in what way it is equitable, how many people will be involved, and so on. For these reasons I suggest that after the second reading stage, the Committee stage should be adjourned so that we do not do an injustice in this area. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Prime Minister receive a letter, dated 7 October 1974, from the Australian-owned Advertising Agencies Council relating to a claim that the substantial advertising account of the Australian Industry Development Corporation was to be given to Leo Burnett, Melbourne, a wholly foreign-owned advertising agency; if so, what reply was made. 
Docs the Government, in the light of its expressed policies, intend to proceed with the proposal mentioned. 
Will the Prime Minister give an assurance to the Australian advertising industry that, in determining this and other Government accounts, due regard will be paid to assisting Australian-owned enterprises. 
-It is not my understanding of what was to happen. I understood that the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  had prepared a slightly changed form of my amendment and had added it at the end of clause 5 ( 1 ) (a) which he showed me a few minutes ago. I understood that the Government was to move an amendment including the draft which  Senator Murphy  had. 
I will not enter into the debate as to the matters which  Senator Greenwood  has raised and which perhaps ought to be covered in view of the various problems which obviously exist in this area. I want to say in regard to that part of the amendment which the Government has accepted, and which basically is similar to the one I moved last night, that it deals with an exception. It deals with a situation where some cases have commenced before 3 December and the defence of illegality has been raised. I understand from inquiry that only a relatively few cases would be involved in that particular exception. Thus the just and equitable situation will have to be determined by courts in a relatively few number of cases. It is not as though we are creating something which will provide for many years a difficulty in which a long line of cases will have to be developed. I suggest that the relatively few current litigations is a factor that ought to be taken into account in considering the amendment. 
-Perhaps I should indicate that it will be my intention not to proceed with the amendment that was originally circulated in my name, upon the passing of this amendment. 
I did not intend to take part in this debate originally but I was induced by the very notable tribute  Senator Button  paid tonight to the new platform of the Liberal Party of Australia. However, before turning to that point,  Senator Devitt  was wrong in construing that anything said tonight was said in derogation of John Curtin. Everybody recognises his role as a Prime Minister. But his name is being given to a building which is to be, after all, a political building and it will be used for political purposes. Giving to that building the name of a former Prime Minister, whom I think we all respect, does not mean that we cannot criticise the way in which the money for it is being raised. We have rightly criticised these matters tonight. 
I propose to remind the Senate of what  Senator Button  said. When I gave him a copy of the Federal platform of the Liberal Party I hoped it might be a case of casting upon the waters and bringing forth something of value. Undoubtedly that action has brought something forth tonight. We are extremely proud of the matters contained in that platform and we believe it will be the road towards victory and success for the Liberal Party in. the coming elections. We recognise that although  Senator Button  purports to criticise it he has recognised that in that platform we have nailed down the real issues which are before the Australian people. 

 Senator Button was very careful tonight not to speak of the Labor Party's platform, this document which I have here, and I think that was very understandable. If he had referred to his Party's platform he would have had to be careful because he would rapidly have come across the socialisation planks of that platform which remain in it in pristine beauty. Obviously socialisation is the intention of his Party if it ever obtains full power in both Houses of Parliament. Perhaps he would not like to read out the clause in that policy about abolition of the Senate. After all, that still remains the policy and platform of the Labor Party although attempts have been made to remove it. The honourable senator also would not like to be reminded of the low interest nature of the Labor Party which must now be just an unhappy memory in the minds of members of the Labor Party. Instead, the honourable senator chose to highlight what we highlight in the Liberal Party platform and which is of concern when one considers money Bills and the raising of money by this Parliament- namely, that federalism is the basis of this community and should remain so; that there is safety in the multitude of counsellors; that in fact the liberties of our people are very much bound up in the fact that in this community we have not one government dictating the community's needs but a number of governments. This requires that governments work together, that they give and take, and therefore we have some safety in the system. 
It is not good enough for  Mr Uren  to fly over the Dandenongs and pronounce to the people of Melbourne what he is going to do with the Dandenongs. It is not good enough for the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  to tell the people of Australia that he knows what should be done with the roads in Melbourne and Sydney or to produce a model train which must be accepted by all the States in the country. No. We in this country know that that sort of" nonsense can be disregarded because there are States still with substantial power, and when the Liberal Party comes back to office then that power will be greater. We recognise that when money is raised by this Parliament there is a sense among the Labor Party members that they are raising their own money, but of course we know that it is the people's money. It is no good telling the people of Australia: 'You people in the State governments cannot deal with this particular money. You have not had the money to do it. You have not done it as well as we would like you to do it. We have kept you poor. We have kept down the amounts you pay because we have said that this year you have got to cut back on the amounts. You have got to cut back on your expenditure because we require that in the interests of keeping down inflation. But we are not prepared to cut down. We are going to have a 32 per cent increase in the moneys we are going to spend and we are insisting on one principle for us and another principle for you '. 
It follows from that argument, of course, that what the Government does when it raises money in this way and doles it out in small lumps to the States is that it says: 'This is our money. We are entitled to tell you in detail how you are going to spend it', forgetting all the time that what it is in fact saying is: 'Although this is the people's money we are taking unto ourselves a right which we do not possess, namely, a right to dictate as though it were our money and we were entitled to do that'. 

 Senator Button tonight drew attention; he thought it was unfavourable attention; to the prominence which the Liberal Party places on federalism and the need to change that federalism so that the States have the reality of financial power. Nothing in this Bill and nothing in the financial Bills which the Government puts forward indicates any acceptance of that principle, and it will obviously not be before another government is elected that that principle will be accepted. I want to thank  Senator Button  for drawing attention to the new initiatives that the Liberal Party and its colleague, the Country Party, have expressed in relation to policy in the documents that emanated from our parties. I say this, that we will expand those documents. They will lead to policies which will lead to a LiberalCountry Party government in this country and in that way financial measures will do fair justice to the States in the future and will not be a matter of dole and charity. On those points I wished to enter this debate,  Mr Deputy President. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Does the Prime Minister confirm that official figures now disclose that real output in the Australian economy fell by 5 per cent while prices increased by 1 2 per cent in the 6 months to September 1974? Does he agree that Australia has now entered a period of acute stagnation? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Government intend to create a State overseas trading corporation, or other similar Government body, to engage in trade with other countries on a government to government basis. 
Is it prepared to do so without legislation authorising the creation of such a body and without Parliamentary approval. 
Have written and oral protests against this proposal been received from represenatives of commercial and business organisations; if so, what were those protests. 
Does the Minister intend to advise the Parliament of the details of the proposals. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Government intend to create a State overseas trading corporation, or other similar Government body, to engage in trade with other countries on a government to government basis. 
Is it prepared to do so without legislation authorising the creation of such a body and without Parliamentary approval. 
Have written and oral protests against this proposal been received from representatives of commerical and business organisations; if so, what were those protests. 
Does the Minister intend to advise the Parliament of the details of the proposals. 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Minister agree that there is some confusion in the brochure forwarded to local government bodies by the Grants Commission, which refers at one point to the Prime Minister's statement that 'applications for assistance with single purpose or specific developmental projects will not be the concern of the Grants Commission' and the brochure's advice that councils 'may identify particular expenditure or revenue disabilities likely to justify their claim for financial assistance ' 
) Does he agree that, in Victoria at least, certain councils have enumerated specific projects and received grants for them while other councils have refrained from doing so, and have suffered accordingly. 
Is he prepared to re-examine and clarify the brochure to ensure that obscurities will be removed, so as to assist councils in the preparation of applications for the forthcoming year. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to the Minister's decision to establish, without proper local consultation, a community health centre in Centre Road, East Bentleigh in Victoria, at the extravagant cost of approximately $650,000. I ask: Is the Minister aware that a representative public meeting of more than 200 local citizens on 18 November 1974 expressed grave concern and condemned the creation  of the  proposed centre as an unnecessary duplication of services? Is not the area already adequately covered by general practitioners? Is the centre to be placed opposite the Morrabbin Community Hospital which already has planned facilities for all ancillliary medical services? Is the Minister prepared to review his decision so that scarce funds can be used for other pressing health needs in the district as already sought by the Moorabbin Council, and not for duplicated services? 
-It seems extraordinary that the Government should not accept this amendment. When it was debated in the other place the Government expressed in the strongest terms that it did not intend to use these powers. In fact, the words which the Minister for the Environment and Conservation,  Dr Cass,  used were that it would be the height of folly for any Australian Government to seek to do so and that it would be foolish to take parks from the States in the manner suggested because the States require moneys. Of course, it would be desirable for the States to increase their parks rather than that there be a taking over of parks by the Commonwealth. I would have thought this was a useful amendment in clarifying the powers and in making it clear that the intention was not to exercise powers like this which would not be in the real interests of conservation but which would rather lead to a competition between 2 governments. I urge the Senate to support the amendment. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the mailing list for the booklet 'Australia in Facts and Figures', published by the Australian Information Service, been closed; if so, why. 
2 ) Is publication of the booklet to cease; if so, why. 
Has the booklet provided a useful public service, in a convenient form, over a considerable period of time. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the mailing list for the booklet 'Australia in Facts and Figures', published by the Australian Information Service, been closed; if so, why. 
2 ) Is publication of the booklet to cease; if so, why. 
Has the booklet provided a useful public service, in a convenient form, over a considerable period of time. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the mailing list for the booklet 'Australia in Facts and Figures', published by the Australian Information Service, been closed; if so, why. 
2 ) Is publication of the booklet to cease; if so, why. 
Has the booklet provided a useful public service, in a convenient form, over a considerable period of time. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. In view of the recent decline in imports, is it not high time that the Minister took steps to ensure that serious port congestion to which 1 have referred in previous questions be reduced and that emergency levies such as high storage charges for containers be eliminated or at least substantially reduced? Has not the tardiness of the Minister in these matters contributed substantially to costs and inflationary pressures? 
In directing my question to the Minister for the Media I refer to the recent circular sent by the Australian Government Publishing Service to subscribers advising that the 1975 annual subscriptions for the weekly issues of the 'Parliamentary Debates'- Hansard have been increased to the following rates: The Senate $24.30 and the House of Representatives $38.80, making a total subscription of $63.10 per annum. Is it correct that the previous subscription was a total of $1.20 per annum and that therefore the new subscription represents an increase of 5260 per cent in one year? I repeat that the new price represents an increase of 5260 per cent in one year. Does this increase reflect substantially or in part the continuing growth of inflation in this country? How does the Government justify this savage increase in view of its declarations supporting open government and the obvious need for improved communication between the Parliament and the people? 
I do not propose to proceed in any way along the lines on which  Senator Everett  has been proceeding. I will not be provoked into making comments on judges. I hope I am of a sunny disposition. I always have the greatest hopes and expectations about new judges. I certainly do not intend to canvass any appointment. 
Both  Senator Hall  and  Senator Everett  made somewhat similar remarks about the attitudes of certain members of the Opposition in this chamber. I think  Senator Hall  described them as moderates. I hope he includes me in that category, whatever it may cover.  Senator Everett  spoke of those who support the conventions and practices and who have not been heard. To those 2 senators I say that there are many on this side of the chamber who have made public remarks about the practices which are under discussion today. 
Myself, for one.  Senator Martin  and  Senator Chaney  are others. 
Not all our remarks are published because we may not have the same facilities as other senators have. We may make statements which are not provocative and sensational. Therefore, they have not been published in the newspapers. That does not mean that we have not expressed our views in moderate terms. 
I wish to speak first in general terms about the practice under discussion and the amendment which has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers).  There is public concern and public controversy about this convention at present. No matter what we may call these things- whether they are the practices adopted by the parliaments and the governments of this country, the understandings or the conventions, whatever the appropriate word may be- they are of great significance and importance in this country. We have a written Constitution, but it does not cover all the circumstances of government. There is no reference in the Constitution to the Prime Minister. At times this must be mortifying to the present holder of that position. There is no substantial reference in the Constitution to cabinet government. Unquestionably over the years there have been developed practices which have prevailed and which need to prevail in the interests of stable and useful democratic government. In that respect one only has to turn to the parliamentary system which the British people have developed. It is based not on a written constitution but on a great mass of understandings and conventions which are observed. Therefore, they are of great importance. The practice which is involved today is one which has been continued unvaryingly since 1 949, namely, that casual vacancies in the Senate are filled by a member of the party to which the late senator or retiring senator belonged. I and, I think, everybody on this side of the chamber think it is a desirable development of a practice which should continue. 
I refer now to the motion which the Government moved. It is, as I think has been observed by  Senator Withers,  rather unsound to suggest that proportional representation is the sole reason why the practice must be observed because, in general, it was observed before the introduction of that voting system. That was in days when senators were elected by a system which resulted in a ludicrous spectacle- on one occasion of 33 members being on one side of the chamber and 3 on another. I think on another occasion it was 35 members on one side and one on the other. Therefore one can imagine that the practice was not so fixed until 1949. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
-When the sitting of the Senate was suspended I was making the point that in respect of the method of filling casual vacancies, the reason for the arrangement or practice which has developed over the years is greatly strengthened, in my view, by the introduction of proportional representation, because I think proportional representation retains a balance of representation of the States. That is one reason why I think the practice is desirable, but, as I said, this is not a matter which just arose with the introduction of proportional representation. It existed before then and has been an invariable practice since 1 949. It was adverted to by  Mr Odgers  in his excellent publication. On page 65 of the 4th edition he states: 
Since the introduction of proportional representation in 1 949, the States have demonstrated their readiness to choose a new  Senator ofthe  same political party as was the  Senator he  replaces at the time of his election to the Senate. A convention has been so established -see the precedents on p.59. 
In addition the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review in 1959 recommended in paragraph 59 and 60 of its report as follows: 
The Committee desired to recommend a constitutional amendment whereby, if the senator for a Sta"; whose place has become vacant was a member of a political party, the Parliament of the State or the Governor of the State should be required, in filling the vacancy, to choose a person who was a member of the same political party as the vacating senator. The Committee was, however, unable to find a form of amendment which would satisfactorily express the objective it had in mind. 
The Committee wishes to record, however, that although its members belong to different political parties, all were strongly ofthe view that the principle referred to in the last preceding paragraph should bc observed without exception. 
So far as I can see, it is the view of all members of this Parliament that that is a desirable practice which should be continued. It takes away the accidents that may occur. It provides some certainty in regard to representation. It is similar to the decision that was announced by the Opposition 2 days ago whereby a pair is granted because of the absence of a senator from New South Wales. It provides something which is not changed by the mere accident of numbers or the accident of death or resignation. 1 entirely agree with the remarks made by our Leader in the other place,  Mr Snedden,  the other day. He said: 
I think the convention has served us very well. You never know when it will operate in the reverse direction. 
That is so. You never know how extensively it will operate in one direction or another and create an accidental situation in regard to the strength of numbers in the Senate. Therefore I think it is desirable to place on record the matters which we set out in the amendment, which is a non-provocative amendment and which does not seek to demand of a State that it do something but sets out the view which is commonly held in the Senate. There is no doubt where the power lies and who may make the decision. Therefore it is foolish for the Senate to go beyond an expression of opinion and to attempt to dictate, whatever the unfortunate effects of that might be. The original motion, which is now superseded by the support which the amendment has been given, contains some unwisdom because it endeavours in its last part to express an opinion before the decision is finalised. I do not think we should do that, because in fact there is always a possibility that persuasion will ensure that no breach of practice occurs. In fact  Senator James  McClelland last night said that he would predict that a change would take place. That is the reason why we should leave the options open. 
-I agree that  Senator Webster  has raised a difficulty. This is probably one of the reasons why in the past the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review found difficulty in phrasing an amendment. I agree that this is a problem, but it is rare. In the general course of events one would find that the accepted practice would operate successfully. I agree that there is a difficulty in the exceptional case to which  Senator Webster  referred. Last night and this morning  Senator Hall  criticised statements made by  Senator Withers  in leading for the Opposition in this matter. I think it should be said that unfortunately  Senator Hall  both last night and this morning misinterpreted and misrepresented arguments which  Senator Withers  raised. Last night  Senator Steele  Hall put the proposition that  Senator Withers  was in some way saying that the actions by this Government in regard to an appointment justified in some way the action which another government might take. He did not say that. In the debate last evening, as recorded at page 127 of Hansard,  Senator Steele  Hall said this of  Senator Withers: 
In the process of putting his arguments and his deductions he went on to say that because the Labor Party had done things which in his opinion were distasteful, so others ought to be excused for doing things which were distasteful. 
By way of interjection I said: 
He did not say that. 
I point out that that is so.  Senator Steele  Hall said: 
He did say it and an examination of Hansard tomorrow will show it. 
This morning, when he chose to continue his speech, he in no way established that. There was nothing in  Senator Withers  ' speech to justify that interpretation.  Senator Hall  went on to say that  Senator Withers  said that the States were entitled to retaliate. Once again there is no justification for that statement. My re-reading of the debate satisfies me that  Senator Withers  was making the important point that the way in which the Federal Government of this country has in recent months and years treated the States, the actions by the Government both in regard to the Gair affair and in regard to the interference by constitutional amendment with the States' rights in regard to the Senate by introducing non-State representatives and also the attacks that have constantly been made on States and the infringement of their powers have left many State leaders in a position where they considerably fear the intentions of this Government, and I think justifiably so. 
No one on this side of the House is saying that 2 wrongs make a right. We are saying that we must understand the feelings of State representatives and the real fears they have about what might happen through interference with the normal practice of elections either by the persuasion of resignations or by other means. These things have justified the State leaders in being extremely concerned about the future of this country. One then understands the state of mind in which they may find themselves. 
Although there was perhaps a spirit of Terrigal, about which we heard, and it was announced that in future the Labor Party was intending to proceed to use State authorities in the road sphere, it was proceeding with certain Bills which it has now withdrawn, I hope with good intentions, including a Bill relating to a housing commission, under which obviously it was not going to use State authorities but to supersede them. Therefore it is a matter in which State leaders have the greatest of fears for the future of their powers. I say that it is highly necessary that this Senate do nothing provocative or which will drive any of the State leaders to decisions which might be unfortunate. 
I am not going to speculate on prospects.  Senator James  McClelland said that there is a possibility that there will be a change. I will accept that. That is his judgment. He comes from the State of New South Wales. I will not impose on the Senate any of my guesses on the situation. I hope that the convention, agreement or understanding- whatever you want to call it- will continue. I would like to see predictability in regard to representation and I would like to see some observance of the position so that the Senate is actually representative of the opinions in the States concerned. I believe the Government has shown good sense in accepting the amendment. I accept that the Government has not accepted our amendment simply because, as  Senator Everett  put it, it is a matter of tactics. I hope it is on a higher plane than that. I hope Government supporters have realised that our particular amendment endeavours to state a principle, to give it moderate and sensible support, and not to endeavour to wave a big stick where we have no power possibly to follow it up. 
Therefore I am pleased to see that the Government is supporting the amendment. I hope that the amended motion is accepted unanimously as an expression of opinion by the persons who are representative ofthe States in this Senate. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Did the Australian Government recently charter the Chandris ship 'Patris' at a cost of $2,750,000 for the purpose of providing temporary accommodation at Darwin? Is it a fact that the scrap value of this vessel is approximately Sim and that the owners were keen to sell it? Why was the vessel not purchased by the Government, used for its present required purpose and then operated by the Australian National Line or otherwise used for tourist purposes? 
-I refer the Minister for the Media to his answer to a question addressed to him yesterday by  Senator Brown  in which he substantially adopted a statement by  Senator Brown  suggesting that the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  at a luncheon on Monday proposed that a Liberal-Country Party Government would abolish the Labor Government's fee-free tertiary education and the present structure of living allowances for tertiary students. Has the Minister now had time to investigate the total inaccuracy of  Senator Brown's  allegations? Is he now satisfied that  Mr Snedden  was referring in his speech only to the inefficiencies and deficiencies of the Government's administration of the scholarship system and in no way to the matters alleged by  Senator Brown?  Is the Minister now prepared to apologise publicly to  Mr Snedden  for this gross misrepresentation to which the Minister, perhaps unwittingly, has contributed? 
I have listened with great interest to what  Senator Mulvihill  has said. He is always interesting. Unfortunately I could find very little in his speech relevant to the Bill. He, and some other speakers on the Government side, have gone to great lengths to avoid looking at the actual terms of the Bill or the principles which are actually involved. Although what they have said has been interesting and entertaining, very little was said that actually involved the principles and the actual terms of this Bill. 
There are 4 purposes, in general terms, in this Bill. Regrettably they are party purposes. They come forth as a distillation of those things which will serve best the Labor Party and which will most disadvantage, in the opinion of the propounders of the Bill, the Opposition. The purposes do not tackle the whole field of reform in regard to legislation. They are, in fact, a segment that is carefully distilled. 
The 4 purposes basically are these: Firstly, a provision or series of provisions that all candidates for Parliament should have to disclose the sources of their financial support, with some exceptions; secondly, that all political parties would have to disclose the sources of their funds; thirdly, a series of provisions which provide for the appointment of registered party agents and official agents, for disclosure of funds, for auditing and for many other cost causing features which would add to the complications, difficulties and general expense of political parties; and fourthly, provisions in regard to the limitation of expenditure by persons or parties according to certain arbitrary requirements which have not been spelt out, have not been explained and which do not appear to have any specific justification. I think it would be bad enough if those purposes were there alone, because I feel that substantial objection can be made to all of them, but I also feel that the provisions of this Bill would not be extended. 
If passed, the Bill would probably lead to further reforms, in the opinion of the Labor Party. For support for that view I refer to the statements which  Mr Young,  the honourable member for Port Adelaide, made in the debate on this Bill in the other place. He was critical of the Bill. He said: 
My criticism of the Bill is that it does not go far enough. I would have no donations at all to political parties or to candidates. I think all the money that is used to educate the people about policies of the various political parties ought to come from the public purse. 
I think  Mr Young,  who is quite notably an influential figure in the Labor Party, has support. No doubt many would support him and agree that the intention would be later to deny the independent financing of political parties and to provide for their substitution by money from the public purse with all the controls, all the restrictions and all the opportunities which that places in the hands of the Government. The Government would have propaganda control over elections and this could lead only in one direction. 
As I see it, 2 major principles are flouted by this Bill. I shall deal with them before I deal with specific provisions of the Bill which make it impossible to accept because they are basic to its structure. The first of those principles is the right of individual persons in this community to contribute support to the political parties the individuals may choose, according to opinions, the strength of feeling and ability to contribute. It is my view that that is something which is basic to the structure of a democratic society, and while a democratic society continues individuals will have the opportunity of making these contributions. Because it is expressed well, I should like to refer to a speech which was made by a senior Republican senator from Utah in the United States, the Honourable Wallace F. Bennett. He was discussing proposals in the United States which went further than the proposals contained in this Bill. The proposal was also to contribute money from the public purse for the maintenance and payment of candidates standing for election. He said: 
Political contributions as a right are often expressions of an intensity of feeling. People get worked up, and they want to express their support or their opposition to somethingusually their support. The need to get private support has a very practical value. It weeds out the candidates early who have no public support, because the ability to get support from the public as private contributions is in part a measure of a man s ability to survive the process. But by letting the candidate know that just by filing, he becomes eligible to receive a certain amount of money, we are going to have a lot of interesting things happen. We are going to have a lot of people taking ego trips. They like to see their names in the paper, and it is not going to cost them anything. The taxpayer is going to pay for it. 
That view is an extension of the present proposals in this Bill. I maintain that in regard to democracy 3 things are absolutely essential. There are other things as well, but in this context 3 things are essential. Firstly, of course, is the right to vote and the ability to vote. Secondly, it is being able to work for a political party or an individual and to have that opportunity and not be in any way prejudiced by reason of that fact. Thirdly, and equally important, is that a person should have a right to use his own resources to support that philosophy, those views, that party and that candidate which he feels are worthy of that support. 
It is not an irrelevant or uninteresting fact that in the last ten or twenty years attempts to introduce democracy into African countries have failed so dismally all over the continent. This has happened, not because there have been no people educated in the workings of democracy. There always has been a class of people in those countries who have known about its workings. The reason has been the lack of a stable and important middle class, the lack of a significant union movement, the lack of an important group of interested people and many other groups of people with independent rights to contribute and who do contribute to different parties. That is the thing that more than any other has caused the breakdown of democratic society in those countries and that could be the result here. 
That is one of the reasons why in the socialist countries of Eastern Europe there will not be any developed democracy because, apart from other reasons, there are no people who are able to exercise their facilities, their money and their time to produce assistance to political parties. Therefore those parties have no strength which is independent of the Government. One of the major principles flouted by this Bill is the necessary continuance of independent funding for political parties not controlled by rigid rules. 
The second of the principles flouted by this Bill is the principle that there should be a right of privacy, a right not to have to disclose what you have done and what moneys you have paid out. This to my mind is terribly important. It is absolutely vetoed in the Bill because it says that persons will have to disclose any monetary gifts of over $ 1 00. 1 leave aside the fact that it is going to be very easy for people to get around it. I can well see that if the trade unions do not want to have their donations spelt out by disclosure they can make requirements in their rules to meet the case and get from their members moneys not in excess of $100. Therefore they will not be affected by this rule.  Senator Mulvihill  said that a searchlight should be turned onto organisations to see what they are doing. Yes, he wants a searchlight. He referred to certain organisations and described some which play a somewhat despicable part in our political process. But what is proposed by this Bill would not really interfere with the works of those organisations. What the Government is doing by this Bill is to say to John Smith, who wants to give $1,000 to the Liberal Party, the Country Party or the Labor Party, that he has to disclose his donation and put himself on public display. 
My experience in a long period of political activity, though not in this House, is that time and again people have been intimidated against exposing their political activities. I have seen this in areas where I have campaigned on many occasions, in areas held by the Labor Party with big majorities. A small shopkeeper in these areas is frightened to put in his window any political publicity. He is frightened to go to meetings and is worried by the intimidation which is practised so often. That is just one of many illustrations that could be given. Many of the unions, as we know, encourage and use this type of intimidation. 
I recall not very long ago statements made in connection with the Mainline group of companies. Those statements indicated that the unions wanted to bring down the companies for which they worked. It is no exaggeration to say that, given this disclosure, pressure will really be on those companies and on those individual employers who are seen to be big contributors to party funds. If a union has to choose which small group to bring out, which strike to start in which area, I can imagine which company will be affectedit will be the company contributing to the funds of the opposite political parties. This is the other major area where principle is abandoned. 
I want to refer now to the Bill as it would operate if passed by this chamber. I think it would be quite clear to everybody that I oppose this Bill and I trust that it will be defeated when the vote is taken for the second reading. If honourable senators look at the clauses of the Bill they will find that they are impossible to introduce and to carry out. In many respects they are unreasonable. They will not stop the unscrupulous person who wants to evade them and therefore there probably would be an area of unscrupulous behaviour more prominent than ever in our political society. Members of the Government admit that we do operate in a society which has been free of major scandal in this area. 
I want to refer to the definition of 'electoral expenditure' which was one of the matters referred to by  Senator Webster.  The Bill states:  electoral expenditure' means expenditure for or in connection with promoting or opposing, directly or indirectly, a party or the election of a candidate or candidates or of influencing, directly or indirectly, the voting at an election' . . . 
The Bill goes on to exclude various small matters. I say to the Senate that that is a most sweeping definition. It refers to what is done directly or indirectly and not only to electing but to influencing an election. How is this going to apply? How is the Government going to define organisations that put out documents that have some relevance? I think one honourable senator mentioned the Institute of Public Affairs. It does not promote a particular party or a particular candidate but it certainly is intended to influence to some extent the political thinking in this country. Organisations that are thereby carrying out valuable work on all sides of the political fence, because they are influencing and improving the understanding of political issues, would be caught up by the definition of 'electoral expenditure'. 
There are interesting exclusions from this definition. I do not have the wit or skill of  Mr Killen  who, in the debate in the other House, pointed out the ludicrous examples of what could happen. However, excluded from the definition are reasonable personal living and travelling expenses of a candidate'. I suppose there is quite an opportunity there for people to contribute in all kinds of ways to living expenses, travelling expenses and so forth. They are to be excluded, so already there is a wide open loophole in the Bill. 
I think the definition of 'party' already has been mentioned. The Bill states:  party' means a body or organisation, incorporated or unincorporated, having as one of its objects or activities- 
Just one of its objects or activities -  the promotion of the election to the Parliament of a candidate or candidates endorsed by it or by a body or organisation of which it forms a part . . . 
Probably under that definition I therefore belong to several parties because I belong to a number of organisations that promote in one way or another or have among their objectives one of these things even in the most remote way. I thought always that I was a member of only one party but I see that several of the organisations I belong to could be included in this definition. I think it is ludicrous to include in the Bill items which are so impossible of performance or of really clear definition. What would happen- we all know this- is that legislation like this would encourage the independent ventures of other groups in the community.  Senator Mulvihill  referred to the activities of  Mr Singleton  who, I am happy to know, has now gone off into a bywater known as the Workers Party. I think he was regarded as something of an embarrassment. That is nothing compared with what might happen because obviously people who want to influence will go on influencing. They will spend money and will do so indirectly. Such activity will not be properly caught up by the Bill. 
The provisions of proposed new section 1 46 in this Bill merit some attention. The proposed section deals with electoral expenditure which is to be authorised. It states: 
A person (other than a registered party agent or an official agent) who incurs any electoral expenditure without the prior written authority of a registered party agent or of an official agent, is guilty of an offence . . . 
If that person is a body corporate the fine can be up to $20,000 and in other cases it can be up to $10,000. I wonder what the distinction is? Is there any explanation as to why a small company that incurs some expenditure which is not actually authorised can be fined $20,000 while  Mr Hancock,  who was referred to earlier, would have to pay only up to $10,000? There is no explanation. What is the ludicrous nature of this distinction? 
The Bill reveals a lack of understanding of the political process during an election. It suggests that written authority will have to be obtained from the registered party agent or the official agent. Those 2 persons will be going in different directions during an election. They will not be in contact. Nobody will know whether one or the other has an authorisation. The whole machinery of this Bill shows a ludicrous misunderstanding of the whole political process. I do not want to be tedious, but there are so many important parts of this Bill which make it unworkable. I refer to proposed new section 150 which deals with gifts to parties. It has a great number of interesting and ludicrous proposals. It states: 
Where a gift to a party, or to any person receiving the gift on behalf of, by arrangement with, or with the concurrence of, a party is made without the prior written authority of a registered party agent of the party- 
A person who is busy running an election campaign must give prior written authority before gifts can be made to him. The proposed new section continues: 
each person who, at the time the gift is made, is occupying or acting in an office or position concerned with the management of the party is guilty of an offence punishable, upon conviction, by a fine not exceeding $ 10,000. 
Just imagine. All members of the State Executive of the Labor Party, the Liberal Party and the Country Party, presumably without any knowledge of this provision, will be caught by it. The proposed new section states also:   it shall be assumed, unless the contrary is proved, that the gift was received with the concurrence of that party. 
So the onus is on the people to prove their innocence. A person who may have no control over the finances of the Party or even no knowledge of them may be guilty. Executive members on our side do not know about the details of finances of our Parties. We do not inquire. We do not seek the names of the contributors. It is better that we do not. It is better that we be free to make our independent judgments, which we do, in our organisations. Yet such people unwittingly will be guilty of an offence and will face very heavy penalties if their Party unwittingly gets a payment without prior written authority. I do not want to be tedious but the onus of proof, according to this proposed new section, is on the Party. There is one exception. I suggest that the provisions of the proposed new section are extremely onerous and stupid. The provisions relating to gifts to parties contain ludicrous proposals. 
I refer now to proposed new section 152. It provides that a candidate shall not, within 3 months before the day next following the day fixed for the polling for the election, make a gift to anybody. If he does, he could be guilty of an offence. A defence is provided. He could go to court and say that he believed on reasonable grounds that the date would not be a date within 3 months of making the offer, promise or gift. In other words, the date of polling had not been fixed. If the person guessed right and the offer of the gift was after the 3 months, he is all right. If the person guessed wrong and the offer was within 3 months, he must show reasonable grounds. Not many people in the community at present are prepared to risk their money on making a right guess as to election dates in relation to the proposed new section. 
I put to the Senate that the concentration on gifts and payment of money to political parties ignores, as has been said before, the work which governments do and the ability which governments have by the use of Ministers and their staffs.  Senator Webster  referred primarily to the ability of persons on the staffs to be elected and to what they could do before the election. Instead I refer to the use of people after an election. Throughout the period between elections a government is able to use its staff, the staff of the Department of the Media- we know how much that is used - 
-And the Australian Broadcasting Commission. None of these things is taken into account. Let me cite an example. 
I am not talking about electorate secretaries. 
You have misunderstood me. I said that staffs of Ministers, staffs of the Department of the Media, the ABC and other bodies provide a great deal of propaganda for governments. They are not taken into account in assessing these amounts. I will cite an example. When the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made that very quick trip back to Darwin during the course of his overseas visit he was given a great deal of publicity. He appeared on television on numerous occasions while he was here.  Mr Snedden  was 2 1/2 days in Darwin. 

 - Senator Bonner was with him at the time. He has told me so. During this period  Mr Snedden  was not shown on television. 
-Yes, but the point I am making is that a government gains a tremendous amount of value from propaganda for which it does not pay. 
Debate interrupted. 
General Business Taking Precedence of Government Business at 3 p.m. 
Local Government 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General and refer to the special general meeting of the Law Institute of Victoria held on Friday, 2 1 February 1975, which was the subject of a question to the Minister last Thursday. Is the Minister aware that the meeting was attended by nearly 1000 Victorian solicitors who supported, without dissent, the provision of legal aid for all in need but expressed considerable alarm and opposition to the present expansion of the activities of the Australian Legal Aid Office in Victoria? While noting that other motions considered at the meeting calling for stringent action are still the subject of a postal ballot, I ask: ( 1 ) Is the Minister aware of the strong objections of most Victorian solicitors to the development of a Government service under no statutory authority, operating beyond the constitutional powers of the Commonwealth and under no agreement or arrangement with other legal aid services which have operated effectively in this area for many years? (2) Is the Minister prepared at an early date to introduce legislation to establish an Australian Legal Aid Office with denned limits to its operations and to avoid overlapping with existing legal aid services? (3) Does the Minister propose to bring to completion discussions with the Australian Law Council and its committees so as to establish a co-ordinating body of all legal aid services and committees operating free of the direct and detailed control of the Australian Government? 
-We are dealing with the second reading of the Electoral Bill 1975. The Opposition has indicated its opposition to the second reading. When this debate was interrupted last Thursday I had already dealt in some detail with 2 principles which I felt were being flouted by this Bill. The first principle is that persons have a right to contribute support to political parties, and that right should not be interfered with or restricted. The second principle is that persons are entitled to privacy; they are entitled not to disclose what they have contributed to political parties and they are entitled to be free of the intimidation which would arise from such disclosures. 
I had gone on to deal with various clauses of the Bill. I had indicated that some are unfair and some are unworkable. In fact the Bill has very dangerous edges to it of which we cannot see all ramifications at this time. I had dealt particularly with the fact that members of Parliament and parties may use the facilities of ministerial staff and other persons. If you are in government you have a great opportunity to use the propaganda and media features of government. This is not counted in the calculation of the moneys which are available to a political party that is in power. On that subject I want to refer to one interesting example which was mentioned in the House of Representatives in the debate on this Bill by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  He referred to a document which he had, entitled 'Precis of Campaign Directors 
Report to the Queensland Central Executive on 25 June 1974', by Bart Lourigan, a very important member of the Australian Labor Party's organisation. While he was explaining the extent of the amount of money which was required to run the campaign in 1974, he went on to make this significant remark on page 7 of his report: 
Brisbane is the only State capital without a Federal Minister and the facilities which would normally be made available to one. To remedy this, the State  President  and the State Secretary requested  Mr Whitlam  to open a Press office in Brisbane manned by a member of the Prime Minister's staff. 
It is quite clear, therefore, that governments have great facilities as exemplified by those remarks not only in Queensland but also in all the other States which are of inestimable value as propaganda outlets. 
Other clauses of this Bill require some short examination. Proposed new sections 153b and 153c create the positions of party agents and official agents and require these persons to do many onerous things including the making of returns after an election showing all the donations that may have been made in the flurry of the campaign. They are also required to authorise in writing gifts that are made before or during the election. I suggest that the performance of the duties required of these agents' positions is an impossibility. Even the most conscientious would have great difficulty in carrying out the duties. Any political party of a national nature campaigns in all States and it incurs costs which may be allocated partly to one State and partly to another. I suggest that it would be practically impossible for persons to carry out this law, and therefore the law may well fall into disuse at an early stage. 
The Bill contains a very interesting provision about the amounts to which parties are limited in spending. Those amounts are set ont in the Bill. No explanation is given as to the validity of them or why they are fixed at the amounts shown. The amounts that are found in proposed new section 147 make no provision for inflation. Somebody has picked out the amount, for u Senate election held alone, of 1 .5c for each elector enrolled for a State. Someone has picked out the amount of 7.5c for each elector in relation to House of Representatives elections. No explanation is given as to how these amounts are arrived at and how they may be changed from time to time. Another significant aspect is that they may be altered at any dme by regulation. The Government may decide that this is a good time for a further increase to be made and, with prior knoweldge of a pending increase, take great electoral advantage of that provision when an election comes near. If it were sought to disallow the regulation I suppose the election would be over before it were done. I cite that as another example of the unfair way in which provisions of that nature can operate. 
Let me turn briefly to proposed new section 149. In many ways it bears some resemblance to the present Act. It sets out the kind of expenditude that is to be allowed in relation to elections and it adds particularly 2 things. It describes the various items on which candidates are authorised to spend money. I say this not in criticism just of this Bill but I note that the limited nature of items set out in that proposed new section is extraordinary. If the Government were proposing to alter that provision it could have widened it so that the ingenuity and imagination of persons involved in elections is not restricted to some person's idea of what are suitable election expenditures. Proposed new section 149 adds the same strictures on official agents and registered party agents: They shall not incur or authorise any electoral expenditure in relation to an election other than expenditure described in that proposed new section. So the same restrictions are placed upon official agents and registered party agents, restricting them in their ability to put forward the views, policies and principles of the party in the way in which they may think it suitable to do so. 
I have mentioned only some of the provisions of this Bill which are obscure, unfair and generally designed by the propounders of this Bill to serve the interests of the party that is presently in power. I turn briefly to one other aspect of this matter.  Senator Mulvihill  made some reference to the provisions . that operate in the United States of Ameria. He referred to the recent legislation and to a book by  Mr Lawrence  O'Brien in relation to the operation of laws in that country. It has often been said in debate on electoral legislation that the laws of the United States have some relevance, but instead one should observe that there are great differences between the position in this country and that in the United States. Fortunately we do not have the same hullabaloo- I think you could describe it in that way- that accompanies the long elections in the United States, and we may be thankful for it. 
In addition it is significant that in 1972 the United States Federal Election Campaign Act became law and it provided, among other things, for disclosure of all contributions in excess of $100. To that extent it appears to have some similarity to the present legislation. However, it must also be noted that under the Tillman Act of 1907, the Smith-Connolly Act of 1943 and the Taft-Hartley Act of 1 947 restrictions were placed on national banks and labour unions in respect of making contributions in elections for federal office. There is a complete difference in the relationship and political activities of unions in Australia. These restrictions do not apply to Australia. They have never been proposed. It is regrettable that most of the unions are lined up on one side of the fence in this country and that there is less support in the business community. It is a pity that our country is divided on such lines. It must be observed therefore that legislation like this in this country is directed, unfortunately, by the present Government towards restriction of private enterprise and business concerns in contributing to political parties. 
This Bill is one part of the whole problem. The Government seizes a small part of the electoral problem- there are problems- and tries to legislate in its interests as it sees fit. When we discussed the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill last year I said- my Party generally said- that what we needed was a committee of both Houses that would sit not in a political atmosphere but in a non-political atmosphere and consider all the problems of electoral reform and decide what was fair and just. I thought on that occasion, and I have hoped since, that we might have seen some change in the Government's attitude. On that occasion the Government brought forward a mass of proposals and forced them through the other House but of course ultimately they were defeated. On this occasion the Government has dealt with two more matters which, in essence, it finds of some value to it. 
I recognise that there are great problems facing the country in regard to electoral matters.  Senator Mulvihill  said in his speech that democracy could be imperilled by a proliferation of public relations. I think that is so. If the force of television becomes so great a cost that it requires excessive amounts from political parties, it can become a danger and I think we should look at that matter as a problem. We have provision for free television time and we should consider whether that idea should be expanded. That is a separate problem and it can be dealt with in a different way. As a Parliament concerned with the effectiveness of our election system, we should look at the whole of the problem and not seize one or two aspects which seem to be of interest to our own Party. 
What this Bill seeks to create- I am confident it will not be created- is a ship full of holes and very unwieldly. It would provide great disadvantage to those people who honestly try to carry out the law, and it would be easily open to other persons who do not want to do so. This Bill contains a great deal of obscurity and a great deal of opportunity for persons to avoid it. I think it is ill thought out and that it should not be passed by the Senate. I trust that the Senate will defeat the Bill. 
Is the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of the strong protest directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and to other persons by  Mr Frank  Galbally, an experienced Melbourne lawyer, relating to the recent trial and gaol sentence in Singapore of Tan Wah-Piow, the 23-year old  president  of the University of Singapore Students Union? Do inquiries by the Minister indicate whether the reported criticisms of the trial as 'political persecution' and 'a political frame up' are justified and that, among other complaints, the student leader was browbeaten by the trial judge and denied free access to his witnesses who had been deported before the trial? Does the Australian Government propose to make any representations to the Singapore Government about these serious allegations in respect of civil liberties raised by this Australian observer? 
-The Superior Court of Australia Bill comes before the Senate in most curious way and at a most curious time. Whilst  Senator Button  says that it may not be an important debate and it may not be listened to by many people at this time, I think it is worth while recording that this Bill, which presumably the Government considers to be important, has been on the notice paper of this Senate for approximately 6 months. It has gone up and down the notice paper like a yo-yo. It has been regarded as a stopgap measure or a make weight whereby if we ran out of business we would deal with it. It has never been considered by the Government to be or been treated as a Bill of significance. The Government has chosen this time for debating it, which I will seek to demonstrate is, perhaps the most curious and inappropriate time to bring forward the Bill for debate. 
I oppose the Bill. I regard it as unnecessary and undesirable in our legal system. I trust it will be defeated. I say for one reason that it is untimely, because we have heard  Senator Button  this afternoon describe the divisions of the court. He omitted the Administrative Division, which is one that has been chosen to be placed in this legislation. Of course, he went on to say that it was not significant at this time. Of course it is not significant at this time because there is no legislation setting up any work for an Administrative Division to which this at present can refer. I will give a similar reference to the Family Division, which is likewise in a most curious situation, further on in my speech. 
I know why it is and,  Senator Button,  you know very well why it is. You know why this Bill becomes even more inappropriate at this time when we have passed through this Senate a Family Law Bill which creates a Court and takes a completely different course from what was contemplated in this Bill. But, no doubt, the Government is of the opinion that it is dealing with, in  Senator Button's  memorable phrase, 'superannuated colonies' and, I suppose, regarding the courts of those superannuated colonies in a similar fashion it seeks to impose this new system of courts, which will be extremely disastrous to this country. 

 Senator Everett made 3 references in particular. No doubt he expected to have them mentioned by me. He and  Senator Button  spent a great deal of time describing the Liberal Party policy, speaking wistfully about the Liberal Party policy as it was and which they desire to take over. We do know that this is a period when the Government is readily picking up policies from our Parties. Consequently, the Government has a loving regard for the fact that at times Attorneys-General in this Parliament took the view that there was a place for a Superior Court. On the other hand, these Attorneys-General looked at the matter thoroughly and came to the conclusion in the ultimate, that despite the superficial interest which there might be in a system of courts which they thought would be perhaps neater or prettier than the existing Federal jurisdictions, it was not workable and was objectionable for many other sound reasons. 
It is important for me to say to this Parliament that the policy of the Liberal and Country Parties on this question of Federal jurisdiction has been made very clear. In the book 'The Way Ahead', which sets out the policies of our parties, this is said: 
The Liberal and Country parties will not establish a Federal Superior Court. They believe in maintaining in Australia one system of courts. A Liberal and Country Party Government will as far as possible vest the State courts with federal jurisdiction. In consultation with the States it will examine ways in which efficient, modern and less time-consuming procedures may be developed and Commonwealth support and assistance may be provided to maintain confidence in our system of justice. 
Therefore we have - 
One system where as far as possible we will vest in the States, jurisdiction. Much of the Federal jurisdiction at the moment is vested in smaller courts and in many cases this is unnecessary and could be dealt with rightly- I will develop this in the course of my speech- in our existing system of State courts. 
I come to the second matter which  Senator Everett  saw as being of significance. That is the statement which he made that at Federation it was natural to invest jurisdiction in State courts, but he went on to say that it was not up to us to perpetuate an historical accident. It has already been made clear by the telegram, read out  by  Senator Sheil  in his speech, from Simon to  Sir Samuel  Griffith at the time when the original Constitution Bill was being considered. It was quite clear to them, then, that it was highly undesirable to follow the American practice and have separate jurisdictions in separate Federal courts. That is why there is in the Constitution the power to vest, in the State courts, Federal jurisdiction, a power which is not found in the American system. 
I have 4 basic objections in principle to the establishment of a Superior Court as proposed in this Bill. In the first place we should develop our own system as proposd by the Parties on this side of the chamber and not follow the American precedent with whatever variations we might make to it. It is a strange thing that honourable senators opposite who, for so many years, have opposed practically everything the Americans have put forward and who have a policy of antiAmericanism in so many areas should choose this one particular disastrous area of American law to copy. 
I assure  Senator Milliner  that we do not copy everything the Americans do. We look at these things independently. But it is a strange thing that those of his colleagues who are so adamantly anti-American should choose what is perhaps the worst of all examples to which they give their support. There is, as I have said, that difference between the powers which the Commonwealth has and the powers which the Americans have which makes it unnecessary for us to follow their example. 
I want to refer to the matters with which  Senator Wright  dealt so well as further evidence of the foolishness of taking the American example. Judge Leonard P. Moore, in an article reported in the New York State Bar Journal, sets out the particular problems of State and Federal judicial conflict and talks of the tension between the States and Federal courts in America. He says: 
Let me start by talking about cases of the worst sort of friction between federal and state courts, just to point out what kind of trouble our country's dual judicial structure can lead to, and to offer some suggestions as to how that trouble can be in part avoided. 1 like to call the worst kind of cases the ships that pass in the night group. Two ships on parallel courses, each apparently oblivious of the other. In these cases, Jones starts a lawsuit against Smith in the state courts, and Smith files a counter suit against Jones in the federal courts. The federal courts, both trial and appellate, find for Smith; the state courts, both trial and appellate, find for Jones, the litigants languish; the citizenry are justly outraged at the confusion; and the lawyers prosper. 
That is the opinion of an American judge well experienced in this jurisdiction, and he quotes another federal district court judge in the following terms: 
When the lowest court in the federal judicial system reconsiders legal claims that have been presented to the highest court of the state and they are turned down, it is performing its most  delicate judicial  task. Federal judges do not like this kind of business. 
We know that under this Bill we will have the possibility, with concurrent jurisdiction, of Federal matters being dealt with in a Federal court and other claims between the same parties being dealt with in State courts with a massive amount of litigation, with costs involved and with a great deal of dismay for those who have to particpate as litigants in those cases. 1 refer finally to the statements which have been made recently by the Commercial Law Association of this country, a very reputable organisation which has taken a great deal of interest in the legislation of this Parliament. On 20 September 1974- and nothing has happened since- it had this to say about the Bill: 
After careful consideration of the Bill, the Association is convinced the apparent theoretical advantages which have been suggested by the Government for the Superior Court are far out-weighed by other serious, practical and constitutional problems. American experience with the division of the federal and state court hierarchies confirm this view. 
The Association concluded: 
The new law follows the American court system and would probably tend as is illustrated in the attached report to the proliferation of unproductive disputes as to jurisdiction and to circumstances where by reason of the limited jurisdiction of each system complete relief could not be obtained without actions being brought before both State and Federal courts. 
In an excellent report, the Association set out many details to indicate how this could occur. So I say, in the first place that we should not follow the American precedent; we should continue to develop our own State court system. 
I come to a second point which has been emphasised by honourable senators opposite who have spoken in this debate. Somehow they suggest that there is some national purpose, they suggest, in developing this new legal system. I suggest to the Parliament that in fact it would be a retrograde step to create this system, to create it and ignore the evidence of the experience and the opinions of men of the eminence of  Sir Owen  Dixon who wrote what has already been read into the record. This law of ours should not be cluttered up with fights over jurisdiction such as whether a matter is a Federal or State matter but should be developed in the one court where both matters could be litigated. We want to keep the discussion between Federal and State jurisdictions academic instead of making it a practical matter that will non-suit and destroy the litigation of particular parties. So there is no national purpose or national need for a Superior Court in our system. 
The third of these reasons of principle is that we have in existence State Supreme Courts of high quality whose abilities and judges are such that they are held in respect not only in this country but in many other countries in the Englishspeaking world which, in quoting from them, recognise their qualities. One can only recognise that if we create a new court system we will be taking judges from the present system and we will weaken the State system in order to create a new body of courts. We have a body of courts at the moment which operates successfully. When  Senator Button,  who quoted from the second reading speech of  Senator Murphy,  as he then was - 
It was  Senator Everett.  I draw his attention also to another statement made in the second reading speech on 12 December 1973 at page 2725 of Hansard. There the former  Senator Murphy  said, in dealing with the administration of State courts: 
Of course, the courts have not distinguished between Federal and State law, and litigants in federal actions have not suffered any disadvantage or enjoyed any advantage over litigants in State actions. It has been put forward as one of the virtues of the present system, that a State court does not generally need to inquire whether the matter before it is a Federal or State action. Problems of limits of  jurisidctions  and of power to deal with a particular matter have thus been avoided. 
I believe that that is perfectly sound and should have been maintained by removing this Bill. We are not in the mediaeval period when barons and hierarchies felt they needed to have their own courts in which matters could be dealt with because they did not trust the justice of other people who lived just 10 miles away. Today we live in a civilised country in which we have had the experience of over 100 years of the jurisdiction of the State supreme courts. Therefore, I state that there is no basis for removing or weakening their jurisdiction 
The fourth of these major reasons of principle to which I have referred is the one mentioned by  Senator Button  namely, the suggestion that there is such a High Court backlog of work that this new Court is needed. When the AttorneyGeneral,  Mr Enderby,  made his second reading speech he stated that originally and largely the reason for the Bill was the backlog of work, but that is no longer entirely the reason. In fact, it is not the reason at all. There is not a backlog of work now in the single justice jurisdiction. This has therefore removed the reason which was thought to be important by those in this Parliament who in years past found reason for supporting this proposal. 
Apart from those general reasons, there are 2 areas in which this Bill has become particularly redundant. The first is in regard to the family law area which is one of the divisions of the Court as now proposed. It is proposed to set up in the Bill a separate Family Law Division which would deal with a certain amount of the matrimonial jurisdiction. This is in complete contrast and contradiction to the terms of the Family Law Bill which was passed by the Senate and which is yet to be dealt with by the House of Representatives. It means that if we were to pass this Bill, we would be passing something in complete contradistinction to the Family Law Bill. We would not be saying as we did say in regard to that Bill that we did not want a judge who would move from one jurisdiction to another to preside over that court but that we wanted judges who were experienced primarily in the family area. Here is a Bill being considered by us which states, in effect, that there will be one division of the Superior Court staffed by the Superior Court judges. 
The Government has not even had enough interest in this Bill to amend that aspect of it. It realises that it is only going through the motions of presenting it to the Senate. 
I have mentioned already the second area- the Administrative Division- in which if we would expect to have some simple and worthwhile administrative tribunal to deal with appeals. We ought to know what will be the nature of that tribunal. If honourable senators pass this Bill now before us, they will probably find that, when the tribunal is created, there will be a multiplicity of appeals from it. If it does not contain a judge of the Superior Court, then the appeal will be required to go to a single judge of the Superior Court and then on appeal to the Full Court. An administrative system which is supposed to simplify and provide justice for people who have objection against government administrative decisions will contain a mass of appeals. Therefore, in this whole fog of obscurity in this administrative area the Bill has no relevance to any administrative structure which we have at the present time. 
I turn to a third area- the practical and financial impediments to this Bill. These are matters to which  Senator Sheil  referred briefly. When the predecessor Bill to this Bill was discussed last year  Senator Greenwood  made an estimate that there may be some 30, 40 or 50 judges required. I regard that as a pretty accurate estimate. It could be that he made a modest estimate. We are conscious of the fact that there are Chief Justices, Chief Judges, the divisions have Chief Judges and the districts created on an agreed geographical basis have Chief Judges. I think that the number of judges mentioned in this regard was about 15. When we come down to estimate how many judges altogether will be appointed under this Bill we find that the Ministers who have been dealing with the Bill cannot explain how many there will be.  Mr Enderby,  who introduced the Bill in the other House, said that the Bill would not of itself result in a demand for many additional judges. That is a very careful but obscure statement. But if honourable senators turn to the explanatory memorandum which accompanies the Bill, they will see that it is stated: 
It is not possible to foresee what number of judges would be required to exercise the jurisdiction of the Court throughout Australia. 
I prefer to take that as the more accurate explanation. There is no way in which we can determine this. In this economic period there is no way in which we can determine the cost to this country of creating a completely new system of courts. There is no way of estimating how many registrars and how many districts there will be. There is no way of determining how many administrative staff will be required and how costly that would be. We have had put before us something of great expense to the community but we have no way of determining how great it will be. 
In addition to this, we have before us a suggestion of creating many judges. I have already mentioned that these judges must come from somewhere. I have not the unlimited faith in the legal community in this country to think that we have the number of prospective judges of capacity who could fill these positions. We have to bear in mind that judges in the existing courts go on circuit in the States and bring justice nearer to the people. Presumably, if this new Court is to come into existence, it must also travel. It must go to various towns where it will be engaged for half a day or a quarter of a day. Therefore, the wastage of judicial time will be exaggerated and increased by the existence of a double set of courts. 
I have said that there will be a massive increase in bureaucracy and cost. There will be Marshals and Deputies of the Court. There will be an unlimited number of registries because it is not provided now in the Bill how many there will be. Premises will have to be obtained throughout the country to provide accommodation for the Federal judges. Accompanying this, there will no doubt need to be Federal gaols also created so that State gaols will not be used. Altogether I say that this Bill provides an immensely increased expenditure for the people of this country. 
In addition to this, it provides a great deal of uncertainty. Many of the provisions of the Bill, such as clauses 26(1) and (2) do not describe in any way the type of jurisdiction or the way in which the court will be operating. For example, the clauses state that writs and orders will be issued as the Court thinks appropriate. Another clause states that this shall be done 'as prescribed'. In many other ways which time would not permit one to describe, this Bill contains provisions which are left to administration, procedure and regulations to determine. 
Therefore I say that we have before us a Bill which is out of date. It has not improved with age. It is a Bill which has been considered in the past by many people of great legal authority in this country and finally rejected. We are asked now to produce at this stage a new series of courts ignoring the experience of the United States of America and the writings of our legal authorities over the years and to proceed in an era when this country is caught up with inflation and unemployment. It is a situation in which we are asked extravagantly to create a new system. Unemployment will not be helped by this Bill because the people who are appointed to the judiciary are not the people who are unemployed. 
The ordinary people of this country who expect some degree of care in expenditure in the community at this time and who expect that we in this Parliament should be considering the major needs of the community will reject the Superior Court of Australia Bill as being an unnecessary irrelevance in this day and age. I trust that the Senate will in its discretion reject the Bill which is unnecessary, costly and altogether mistimed. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. Is the Minister aware of a long-standing arrangement under which the Law Council of Australia received from the Australian Government 3 copies of each new Bill at the earliest possible stage that such Bills could be disclosed to the public? Was not the purpose of this arrangement to enable sub-committees of the Law Council to give close and early attention to all proposed Commonwealth legislation? Is the Minister aware that this arrangement has now broken down and that copies of the Bills are no longer being received by the Law Council? Will the Minister take steps to restore the arrangement on whatever financial basis he deems appropriate in the mutual interests of the Parliament and the Law Council? 
-By way of question, I would like to address one or two matters to the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  in regard to the staff of the Corporation now in existence and their likelihood of continuity of employment after this Bill comes into operation. The Bill contains 2 clauses which relate to the staff. Clause 29 is a necessary clause which provides that the staff shall be persons appointed or employed under the Public Service Act. Clause 30 provides for some continuity of employment in regard to the Superannuation Act where the person concerned continues to be employed by the Commission. Apart from that, there is no reference to the situation of existing staff of the Corporation. Clause 39 contains a provision which repeals the existing Acts and provides that rights, properties and assets of the existing Corporation shall be taken over together with all the debts, liabilities and obligations of the present Corporation. There is a specific provision that the members of the Corporation, as distinct from its employees, will have some continuity for the purposes of making reports and financial statements. 
But my concern is one which is held fairly strongly by the present staff members of the Corporation. I believe that they are a capable staff. Obviously, there will be a need for persons to do the same type of work in the future. The concern which they have is that they have at present no assurance of continuity of employment when employment is a matter of great concern to all members of the community. I ask the Minister whether he can give some general assurance that it is intended to take over the members of the existing staff. 
I likewise join with pleasure in supporting this Bill, the Australia Council Bill 1975. This Bill has been here for some considerable time and, like  Senator Rae,  I regret the delays which have taken place in proceeding with it. I am now thankful that it is at last before the Senate and I trust that it will today secure passage through the Senate. When I listened to  Senator Button  1 heard what seemed to me to be a departure from the nonparty political attitude towards this Bill when he referred to the cultural dark ages of the 1960s. I subsequently realised that that was another of  Senator Button  's throw-away phrases, to which he is so attracted, because he then said that over a period of time we in Australia have developed a greater interest in the arts and he acknowledged the fact that the Australian Council for the Arts was created by the previous LiberalCountry Party Government and that  Mr Gorton  played such an active role in its formation. Over a number of years there has been throughout the community a growing appreciation of the need to develop the arts and to subsidise and encourage artists and communities in the development of the arts. This is something which has been accepted by the people only in stages and even today we find that in the community there is a fair amount of criticism of the arts policy and its exploitation. 1 would like to say one other thing in respect of the general remarks made by  Senator Button.  In his criticism of the proposals that the State Directors of the Arts ought to be on the Council for the Arts he seemed to conclude immediately that this was merely something of a mini Premier's Conference and that the State representatives would only be concerned in the allocation of funds. I suggest to him that the major point is this: One of the fears held throughout the community is that there may be a centralisation of the arts, that the Government may create a large bureaucracy, that it may provide for money to be dispensed from the centre and that there may be - 
No, it is not a neurotic fear of my Party. It is a desire by my Party to ensure that these criticisms will be met in advance and, in fact, that in the determination of policies there will be an involvement of people who are in the States greatly experienced in this field. 
The honourable senator made one comment which I think was unfortunate. He said that it was the initiatives of this Government which created and developed the arts in the States. In fact, we all know that there has been a long period of trial and effort by the States. One has only to know of the Felton Bequest and the National Gallery formed and developed in earlier days in Victoria to know that there is a great history of development of the arts in the States. It does not all flow from Federal initiatives. 
We on this side of the Senate favour the policy now announced of providing that there will be a non-political statutory corporation that will govern the development of the arts. It will be responsible to the Parliament. It will be examined in the committees of the Parliament. It will report. Of course, there must be safeguards to ensure that the very substantial amounts of money that will be spent by the Council will be spent wisely and will be subject to public scrutiny. It is important that there should be a nonparty political approach to this matter and to the use and payment of moneys for the arts. It is a sensitive area. It is an area in which people can sometimes be very embittered by the failure to obtain grants. It should not be the responsibility of the politicians of this country to have to interfere and determine whether justice has been done. Those matters of artistic judgment should be made by those people who are experienced in the arts. Of course, the provision of moneys and the proper expenditure of those moneys are matters which the Parliament must continue to scrutinise carefully. 
It has been said correctly that there has been a great increase in the amount spent on the arts in recent years. This has led to problems which we all recognise and which have been discussed by  Dr Jean  Battersby who was mentioned by  Senator Button.  I join with him in commending the way in which  Dr Battersby  has stood up to criticism which on many occasions I think has been unwise and unjust.  Dr Battersby  gave evidence before a Senate Estimates Committee. She answered in a highly satisfactory fashion the questions put to her. I believe that she has acted in a most creditable way in the early development of the Council. At the height of the controversy last year she is reported in the 'Australian' newspaper of 5 September 1 974 as follows: 
At the beginning when we suddenly had a large amount of money to administer and we hardly had any staff at all we had to scout around and get any sort of reasonable help we could raise to get things moving, ' she said.  lt was important that donations to the arts and assistance to artists should be not delayed by bureaucratic hold-ups. The Council itself had difficulty in acquiring temporary staff and in obtaining the help of people who could make the determinations as to what grants could be provided. We have to recognise that there were difficulties in the early period of this Council. There will continue to be difficulties but one would expect, that by the formation of the statutory body the position will be improved. 

 Senator Button has said that this is an interest in the arts which goes beyond party politics. We in the Liberal Party describe in our Party platform the various matters which we feel should be covered by assistance to the arts in these words: 
Assistance to the Arts should aim to: 
allow Australians to enjoy the highest quality achievement in the Arts; 
ensure that talented artists are encouraged to live and work in Australia; 
provide belter cultural facilities for the community and open access to the art and cultural assets of the nation; 
promote Australian artists and art forms in other countries and the development, in Australia, of appreciation of the cultural and artistic heritage of other peoples. 
Our Liberal Party platform, which crystallises the thinking which has developed in the Liberal Party over many years, sets out the same sort of objectives which are now found in clause 5 of the Bill and which I commend to the Senate. 
I wish to deal with some of the criticisms which have been made not only in this debate and the debate in the House of Representatives but also, and more basically, within the community. I have said already that there are people who wish to obtain a grant and are met with a refusal and are disgruntled. Therefore, many of the criticisms at times have to be judged in that light. On the other hand, criticisms on the ground that the expenditure of the Council which has increased very rapidly to $20m a year are criticisms which are not founded on an accurate base. It is true that the development has been very quick. But at the same time it is a small amount of money when one considers the expenditure in other areas and considers the recognised need now to develop the cultural assets of this country, to preserve the assets of this country and, most importantly, to develop the interest which the community can develop in arts and culture. It should not be an elitist interest. Primarily the interest should be widened to cover all the people in our community and particularly in areas where there is cultural deprivation and a lack of appreciation at the present time in the arts and culture of Australia. 
Criticism has been made of the membership of the Council and the Boards. This has been referred to by earlier speakers in the debate. I would like to say, in this regard, that 1 think the criticisms are justified and that some changes ought to be contemplated. These organisational problems can be observed in the running of the Australia Council and the changes can be made at a later stage. 
I refer to an interesting article which appeared in the 'Age' newspaper last year. It was written by Professor Bernard Smith, Professor of Contemporary Art and Director of the Power Institute of Fine Arts at the University of Sydney. He made these remarks concerning some aspects of the Bill: 
The Australia Council Bill now before Parliament provides inadequate safeguards against bureaucratic power. Although it provides for limited appointments of all members who 'practise the arts or are associated with the arts', the three Public Service appointees are to remain during "the pleasure of the Governor-General'. Vice-Regal pleasures sometimes last too long. There is surely good reason Ibr limiting appointments of Public Servants also. They, too, are capable of perpetuating entrenched interests and are in a better position to do so. 
I do not think that this aspect has been criticised previously in the debate. 1 feel that it is an important aspect. It is important that we should not have, on the Council and the Boards, members who are there for too long. The provisions in the Bill for rotation of members are excellent ones. The suggestion for the election of the chairmen of the Boards is important. Under the Bill they will be appointed not only for their term of membership but also it will be within the power of the Government to determine who will be the chairmen of the boards. 
We have to face this question of excessive bureaucratic power in such an organisation. I believe that this is one aspect which may require some amendment after the Bill has been in operation for some time. One has to worry about the possibility of elitism that can develop in an organisation such as this, and the fact that the organisation itself is not designed and does not operate merely to assist existing artists and existing forms of art. Instead the organisation can develop new forms of art. There should be a readiness and openness of mind on the part of the Council and the boards when they come to allocate the funds. One would hope to see in the community a greater development of the arts for those who are impoverished in an artistic sense at the moment. One would want to see also new audiences- people who have not previously had association with the arts. One would hope that these developments would remove the risk of elitism in regard to this Bill 
One of the criticisms that has been made of this Bill is the fear of centralisation and the fear that the community might not be sufficiently involved in the Australia Council. I believe that centralisation is a danger with any organisation that has settled with its headquarters in one place. 1 have had the opportunity of visiting the headquarters of the Australian Council for the Arts, of meeting the members of the Boards and seeing the operations. I am certainly impressed with the enthusiasm and devotion to their jobs of the people who are working there. Nonetheless, there is always a possibility that in the remote areas there will not be sufficient development of the arts. 1 think this situation must be watched. 
I commend the Bill. I believe that it is not a perfect Bill and that it will probably later require later amendment. I believe we are entering a new era of the arts in which in this country we can see developing a much greater appreciation of our cultural assets and a much better opportunity for the people of the community, who have now more leisure, to enjoy that leisure in the field of the arts. Therefore, I commend the Bill to the Senate and hope that it will be passed. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Science aware of the widespread and growing objections by individuals, consumers and businesses to the continued implementation of the metric conversion program and of the allegations of increasing costs, waste, confusion and inflationary effects of the present program? Is the Government prepared to suspend conversion so that its costs and benefits may be reassessed, as advocated by the now  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr Cairns,  in May of last year, or to appoint an independent investigation to assess the comparative costs and benefits of limiting or suspending the further implementation of the program or continuing with it on the present basis? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Did a number of fifth form high school students collect unemployment benefits at the expiration of the 1974 school year whilst they fully intended to resume schooling in February 1 975 to study for matriculation. 
Does the Department have any procedures to obtain undertakings from parents to cover these circumstances. 
Is the Minister, or his Department, aware that there are a number of instances where men previously holding two positions and having been dismissed by one employer, then proceed to claim unemployment benefits and continue working for the second employer; if not, does the Department intend to make enquiries into this matter and require particulars from applicants to ascertain the extent of this practice. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to my previous question to the Minister on 18 February 1975 in which I challenged the decision of the Australian Government to charter the Chandris ship 'Patris' for temporary accommodation in Darwin at a cost of $2,750,000 instead of purchasing the vessel for approximately $lm. I ask the Minister: Firstly, why, despite his undertakings at that time, have no details of this transaction been supplied and when will an answer to my question be given? Secondly, is he aware of and will he reply to the following allegations which have since been made publicly: ( 1 ) That the contract, which has remained secret, provides for the Chandris Brothers to be guaranteed a clear $15,000 a day tax free over and above their costs; (2) that employees on the vessel are engaged at terms of pay and under living conditions greatly inferior to those enjoyed by equivalent Australian employees in Darwin itself; and (3) that the unions have complained to the Australian Government against the introduction of cheap imported labour under this contract? 
1 wish to speak to the point of order. Since those matters are sub judice, surely  Senator Georges  is not entitled to deal with any matters which arise from that writ or any matters which are to be litigated in that writ. I submit that he is not entitled to do so or to discuss matters which are covered in the terms of that writ. He should not be allowed to do so. 
-The Senate is now debating the second reading of the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill. We have before us an amendment which was moved by  Senator Greenwood  on behalf of the Opposition. I think it is perhaps important at this stage just to read the opening words of that amendment because in the debate quite a bit of it has been forgotten or misrepresented. We seek by this amendment to say that 'the Senate accepts the principle of an effective securities commission to regulate and supervise the securities industry for the purpose of assuring its integrity, efficiency, stability and financial soundness'. The amendment goes on to resolve that we should appoint a special committee of this Senate for the purpose of further investigating this Bill and in fact reporting back to the Senate by 1 September. 
This Bill, as we all know, contains 284 clauses and, despite what the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  has just said, it is not in any way a normal Bill that can be dealt with in a normal way. It is an extraordinarily important Bill, lt is a very complex Bill and it is one which has been in a gestation period for a long time. An important committee of the Senate has already investigated many of the problems which are touched on but which perhaps are not satisfactorily dealt with in the Bill. In the course of argument this evening we have heard some extraordinary statements, some of which I may refer toparticularly those made by  Senator Everett  and  Senator Button,  because they particularly have pointed out to the Senate that this legislation should not be dealt with now by a select committee of the Senate. 

 Senator Everett said that a Senate Select Committee is the slowest possible form of inquiry and  Senator Button  in a similar pessimistic vein proceeded to say that we have a poor course record in referring these matters to committees. Yet these 2 honourable senators have both served with distinction in the period that I have been a member of the Senate on committees which have been investigating Bills of importance, although not of the great size and complexity of this present Bill. In this they have modesty, which becomes them, but they have a lack of judgment. Judgment has deserted them because they should realise from their own excellent work on these committees that it is possible for committees to proceed swiftly and effectively in dealing with Bills and, in fact, to remove the heat, which often appears and which has been engendered occasionally in this chamber, by looking at the matters dispassionately and hearing the evidence. Despite what  Senator Everett  said, namely, that the work could not be done by 1 September and that there would have to be the hearing of mountains of evidence before a committee could come to a conclusion, I would say that committees recognise, as those committees on which they have served have recognised, that it is possible to deal with a Bill and work in haste. It is possible to read the representations that have been made in recent weeks to the Government and to the Opposition in respect of this Bill and to deal with those matters speedily. I suggest to the Senate that the course that has been suggested by the Opposition is an effective one which can operate successfully. 
There are a number of matters of considerable importance to be dealt with by a committee to be formed by this Senate. They are critical issues that should not and cannot be dealt with in the ordinary Committee debate in this Senate. Such a committee would have to decide what should be covered by the Bill and whether this Bill should cover all those areas that are at present in the Bill because, as it stands, it is not just a Bill which deals with the securities industry. It is a Bill which deals- and it is admitted by the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McClelland)  in his second reading speech- only in part with company legislation and it is part of the national Companies Act. The rest of it, like some part of a jigsaw puzzle, is to be seen by the Senate at some later stage. To take one particular instance, when  Senator Everett  referred in the Senate tonight to the idea that the States could have a place in the regulation of the securities industry and when he proceeded to quote chapter 16 of the Rae report and say that that had exploded the idea that the States should be involved, I would say that he was misquoting the section of the report. In fact, that part was dealing with the national securities industry. It was not dealing with corporations or with the national companies Act. Those matters are matters which, of course, are important for such a proposed committee to consider. 
There are additional matters of great importance which such a committee should consider, namely, the constitutional powers which may justify this Bill. Does this Bill in fact exceed the constitutional powers of the Parliament? It must never be forgotten that under the Constitution the powers that we are concerned with as a national Parliament are those in relation to foreign corporations and trading or financial corporations formed within the limits of the power of the Commonwealth. Suggestions have been made- I do not necessarily adopt them but I say that they must surely receive very earnest considerationthat in fact some parts of this Bill and some parts of the regulation of corporations are beyond the powers of the national Parliament. For example, one can say that clause 83 of the Bill, which requires financial journalists to do certain things and to make certain disclosures as to their interests, may not be a law in relation to corporations and it may well be that it is not within the power of the Commonwealth under the Constitution. These matters call not for argument in this chamber but for consideration and advice given to a select committee. 
In addition, should such a committee have to decide that the Bill should relate solely to the securities industry and the control of that industry and not have included in it parts of the companies legislation that might form part of the national companies Act. Then there is the very difficult question, as I see it, to determine where exactly the line is drawn and just exactly what powers are needed relating to companies to enable a securities exchange to operate. This is a matter that again calls for dispassionate and careful consideration and it is not one that can be done very easily. 
Further in regard to a committee investigation that might be undertaken, one would say that the Rae report which took so many years to complete, because of the very complexity of the subject and the difficulties that were before the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, must be looked at to ascertain to what extent the recommendations in that report are implemented successfully in this Bill. Otherwise the work of that Committee will be wasted and we will find that the creation of these new regulatory authorities will not succeed in achieving the purpose which we all seek, namely, that the troubles of 1970-71 and the malfunctioning of our securities industry at that time are not repeated. One must also bear in mind the consideration which no doubt this Committee would give to the fact that the Bill must be water tight. It must be one that can operate successfully in a crisis. By way of example I refer to a paper which was presented by  Mr R.  P. Meagher, Q.C., a Sydney counsel of great experience, at a seminar in Sydney in January this year. The question which he dealt with was: Can the Bill's provisions be evaded? That is, taking the Bill as it stands at present, is it possible to evade it? He said: 
The answer to this question, in a practical sense, should (in my opinion) be in the affirmative. If a company which is diversified in its operation to the usual degree and is therefore partly engaged in (let us say) trading operations and pardy engaged in other operations, and which hence suspects that it might be classified as a 'trading corporation' for the purposes of the Bill, wishes to gain maximum immunity from the impact of the Bill, all it need do is create a new company to which it will hive off its trading activities. Thereafter that new company and only that new company, will be caught by the proposed legislation. Any competent lawyer should be able to arrange that all other divisions of the old company remain unpolluted by Federal legislation interference. 
I am not saying that that is necessarily correct but I am saying that that type of submission, that type of doubt should be investigated carefully so that the Bill which comes forward to this Senate again and which the Senate adopts will be one that will stand the test of challenge and the test of ingenuity of minds. 
I turn to another aspect of this Bill- the regulation and rule making powers which are contained in the Bill to an enormous degree. I refer to 2 clauses- Clause 283 gives to the Commission power to make rules and clause 284 gives power to the Governor-General to make regulations. A massive amount of power is given to those authorities to make rules and regulations. Clause 284 provides a particular power in relation to the qualifications and experience to be possessed by directors of corporations, other than foreign corporations, to which Part III applies; namely, a complete power to prescribe whether directors of companies throughout this country need to have a university qualification or some sort of experience or whether they do not need any at all. It would probably be very easy for the Government to disqualify a great proportion of the directors who have successfully achieved a great increase in productivity for their companies throughout this country but who have no specific qualifications. It would be possible to exclude them hereafter from taking part in the affairs of those companies and the effect on the economy might be disastrous. 
I am not concerned with what might be the intention of this Government or any future government, but once that power is given we no longer have any real control over the way in which governments operate. I know that we have power to deal with regulations; they can come back here and, in the mass of other things, we may get around to repealing them. On the other hand a lot of damage could be done under those regulations. 
In addition to these provisions is the power to impose penalties not exceeding $5,000 in the case of a corporation or $2,000 in the case of a person not being a corporation for offences against the regulations. These penalties are all to be provided by way of regulation. Some calculations have been made of the number of clauses that are subject to regulation. This Bill contains not only those general regulation powers but also something like 84 clauses under which matters can be prescribed and regulations made. Those 84 clauses indicate to me and to many of the critics of this Bill that what is wrong with this Bill is that it is shoddily prepared; that the legislation which should set out as far as possible the matters in detail that are required has left to the Government the power of regulation in 84 clauses of the Bill. I suggest that by any general principle the Senate should resist the idea that there should be need for regulation to that degree. 
On the same line, under 36 different clauses there are various provisions for appeals to be made and, in the main, made to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, the legislation for which has not been adopted or debated yet in the Senate or in the House of Representatives. It is a Bill which we now have seen but we do not know the final form in which it will go forward. We do not know what grounds of appeal will be available. We do not know to what extent this appeal provision will apply. How foolish it would be for us to pass this Corporations and Securities Industry Bill before that Bill is passed and before we know whether or not the Administrative Appeals Tribunal is an adequate body to conduct appeals. Once again there is reason for this aspect to be investigated by a Senate committee. 
I take 3 examples only of areas in this Bill where a closer examination is needed; where detailed consideration should be given to each line.  Senator Georges  earlier this evening said: My goodness! Is the Committee going to look at each line of the Bill?' Of course it is if it is to do its job properly and that is something which obviously we cannot do in the time available to the Senate. Certainly the Committee, if it is to do its job properly, must look at the clauses of the Bill to see how they inter-react one with the other and whether they are satisfactory. This evening  Senator Greenwood  referred to the extraordinarily detailed provisions for directors' reports, to how much information must be provided, to how necessary it is that one must supply directors' reports to members, and to what details concerning employment and environment activities undertaken by the company should be supplied in particular cases. Such requirements are included in the Bill- in clause 130 and in the Third Schedule of the Bill. Imagine the cost and the effects on efficiency which this will impose on companies which are trying to compete in a very difficult world. But this aspect has been dealt with already." 
I take one further example- the provision made in clause 14 and clause 1 1 1 of the Bill that when stockbrokers are reporting to their members, customers and other people they must disclose the interests which they or associated persons have in respect of shareholdings in companies to which their dealings relate. Looking in detail at the definition of 'associated persons', it includes grandparents, parents, children, brothers, sisters, sons and daughters. Of course the clauses create an impossible situation as they stand. 
Of course we could deal with some individual clauses by way of amendment but we have to give a great deal of thought to just how much we are going to require. It is impossible to imagine that a stockbroker should be expected to know what his adult sons and daughters and other relatives might have in their holdings. 
Particularly if they are overseas or if he has not seen them for years. Why should they disclose these things? Therefore this rule could be broken with ease. That is one of the obviously silly provisions of this Bill which calls for alteration. Under the Bill there are provisions- on my reading they are serious infringements of the liberty of the subjectrequiring things to be done by brokers and others. They are provisions which can take away rights and occupations without providing for adequate appeal. I illustrate these things only to show that there have come before Opposition members- I have no doubt they have come before Government members- representations made by people who are concerned, who have rights and who ought to be considered. The representations would, if accepted, give rise to hundreds of amendments. They are the types of amendment that ought to be looked at individually and also in relation to other parts of the Bill. In my view, it is clearly not a Bill that can satisfactorily be dealt with clause by clause during the Committee stage of this debate. If it were to be dealt with in that way it would hold up the business of this Parliament for many weeks. 
I trust that the amendment which is before the Senate will be adopted, because in moving it we are trying to produce a Bill which will properly regulate the securities industry and overcome defects which have arisen in the past. What we are doing is related to companies. We are not imposing obligations on trade unions. If we were I have no doubt about all the screams, all the disputes, that would arise throughout the country. Therefore it is important that the Senate, representing all parts of the community and realising that it is dealing with a very important and delicate industry which should be improved and not hindered or destroyed, should make sure in its operations that it uses the system of the Senate, which is a committee system of which we can be proud. The committee system should be used in this instance because it is quite appropriate that it should be used in relation to this Bill. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is the Australian Government aware of a plan by Middle-East oil producers, led by Algeria, to turn the coming international energy summit into a platform for the promotion of cartels of raw material producers to the detriment of consumer nations? Does this plan require the support of a developed economy such as that of Australia, Canada or South Africa for its success? Does the Australian Government propose to join in resources diplomacy at the expense of Great Britain and other Western nations by falling in with this plan? 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Defence to the recent report of the Committee of Inquiry into the Citizen Military Forces which is known as the Millar report. Which of the recommendations of the report have been adopted already by the Australian Government and when were they implemented? Which of the other recommendations are to be implemented during the remainder of 1975 and when are they likely to take effect? In particular, has the Government adopted the recommendation in the report that home loans be made available for Army Reserve personnel? If so, what conditions will be imposed on such loans and when will they be available? 
-We are debating the second reading stage of the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill. We have before us a Bill which we have had before us previously and which has been defeated previously. On this occasion the Bill will take a different course. The Bill contains a great number of suggested alterations to the electoral law. It has been estimated that 34 different ideas have been included in the Bill. If one looks at the proposals which the Opposition puts before the Parliament on this occasion one finds that in relation to nearly 30 of the ideas that are contained in the Bill there is common agreement about their desirability. I do not maintain that there are not important matters on which there is a difference of opinion between the 2 sides of the chamber. I consider that there is one advantageous feature about today's debate and the course which this Bill will take. On the previous occasion when we had a similar Bill before us it was rushed through the House of Representatives and brought before this chamber without any real opportunity being given to obtaining the views of the party organisations and of the people in the communities which we represent. On this occasion an opportunity has been given to obtain opinions and to form views on the individual items set out in the Bill. Consequently, as I understand it, the Bill will proceed to the Committee stage when the items in the Bill will be individually considered and the amendments will be separately considered. 
However, I believe that we still have not created the atmosphere about which  Senator Mulvihill  spoke- an atmosphere of reform where all these matters can be considered in the light not of what party advantage is involved but of the needs of the people of this community. I do not see the whole of this Bill as creating a momentous change to the electoral system. I think that one must be very careful in dealing with the electoral system not to proceed to changes without giving fair consideration to their effects. I believe that in relation to a number of items that are set out in this Bill there has been precious little consideration, little detail and little evidence placed before the Senate as to the desirability of some courses which the Government seeks to adopt. I should like to repeat some remarks which I made on 28 November 1974 when a similar Bill was previously considered and defeated. I am reported at page 2931 of the Senate Hansard of that date as having said: 
It is Tor those reasons, among others, that we must regrettably vote to reject the whole of the Bill. I am sure that rejection of the whole of the Bill, if that should happen, would not be the end to this whole matter. It may be that there will then be a turning towards consideration on the basis put forward by the Opposition in both Houses, that is, that a committee comprised of members of all political parties in both Houses of the Parliament should consider not necessarily in the public forum but in a non-political atmosphere the merits and demerits of the proposal. 
Of course, that has not been done. I think that if it had been done there might have been a greater degree of agreement between the parties not only as to the proposals contained in the Bill but also as to other proposals, including the matters to which  Senator Mulvihill  has just referred. This is a matter which needs to be dealt with in a dispassionate light, obeying and looking at all the evidence that is before the Parliament. This Bill contains a number of significant amendmentsuseful amendments at that. Reference has already been made to clause 40 which provides for mobile booths. They will be of great advantage to people in hospitals or in institutions. It will be possible for those people to vote in a comfortable situation, not under the stress of discomfort. I think that is a useful provision that should be welcomed. 
I take another example. Clause 1 1 provides that there should be power to determine unacceptable names which will not be allowed to be placed on the ballot paper. Of course, at present it is possible for people to change their name by adding the words 'White Australia' to their name, or in some other way, in order to put out some political propaganda or to have their names placed higher in alphabetical order on the ballot paper. I think that these are particular examples of undesirable practices that this Bill will stop. However, as has been pointed out, there are in this Bill a number of provisions which are party political in the real sense of the term, and nothing epitomises this more than some of the provisions in regard to postal ballots which are quite unashamedly designed, in my opinion, to determine that certain peoplepredominantly voters for the Opposition- will have less opportunity of voting and of using the postal ballot system. Unquestionably, the facts have shown that there is a preponderance of postal votes which go to the Opposition and which during the later counting, in some cases, tend to swing seats towards the Opposition. The people who use the postal system are either abroad or absent from their local polling booth. As we all know, these days this is not a very reliable system, and is it right that their entitlement should be denied them because of the fact that a letter does not reach the electoral officer before the close of the poll? It has been pointed out that there is no delivery of mail on the Saturday of the election, and therefore this would be an entirely unfair situation. It is all right for honourable senators opposite to say that they want an immediate result, but an immediate result should not be achieved at the expense of people who want to exercise the right to vote in an election. 
In this Bill there are other provisions that obviously require amendment. The Government has taken the course of saying that the deposits of candidates in elections are not enough, and I agree with that. The deposits are at a low figure. There has been a great change in the value of money since the time the present deposits were fixed. On the other hand, I think that the decision to require a deposit of $1,000 by a candidate in a Senate election is unreasonable. It is all right to say that 48 candidates in Victoria and 73 candidates in New South Wales stood for the Senate at the last election and that this number should be cut down, but at the same time there is the important principle that individuals should have the right to put their names down as electors seeking the support of the community. There are occasions when independent candidates, because they receive that support, are elected from various places on the ballot paper. If the Government had wanted to keep down the number of candidates it could have considered the alternative of requiring a greater number of nominators to sign the nomination form. That is a possibility which would not involve the financial contribution of $ 1 ,000 and the risk of the loss of that amount of money by a person who wishes to stand for Parliament. 
I listened to the argument about the multiplicity of parties which it is claimed is likely to occur if we are not careful and if we do not have this restriction of a high deposit. I do not accept that and I do not think it is likely. There is the factor that if a party, though it be small, wants to put its name before the public it takes the risk of a loss of deposits in any event, but it should have the opportunity to do so. While trying to ensure that the world is safe for democracy we should not ensure that the world is safe and cosy for just the largest parties in the community. Other parties have this right and I would defend their right though I am not a member of any of those sorts of parties. Therefore I think that the proposal of the Opposition that the figure should be $500- that is twice as much as the amount for the House of Representatives and not 2!6 times- is a much more suitable amount to choose, and at that is quite high enough. 
I draw attention to another useful amendment which comes from the Opposition and that is the provision of a Register of General Postal Voters. 
This is to cover electors who live in large electorates and have difficulty in casting a vote at an individual booth. There ought to be a general right in these circumstances to obtain a postal vote. I think this is a highly desirable change which the Opposition will bring forward. 
There are, regrettably, some proposals which have not been accepted by the Opposition. Many of these matters are, I think, matters of legitimate doubt. There is disagreement at times as to the value or otherwise of reform in these areas. I desire briefly to refer to three of them. We are making partial amendments to the Electoral Act but from time to time there will be reconsideration, and I hope that there will be reconsideration by a joint committee at some time in the future. 
I referred, on the previous occasions I spoke, to the possible introduction of optional preference voting or alternatively a form of simplified preference voting. The latter is another system which was put forward by 2 members of the House of Representatives on the last occasion that this Bill was debated. From the material I have studied I believe there is substantial argument in favour of the optional preference scheme. I might say that this is not argued to any length in the Minister's second reading speech. There are statements about it but there is no material put before the Parliament. 
It is also difficult at the present time to obtain an assessment of what would be the effect of optional preference voting. With the greatest respect to my colleague  Senator Scott,  I do not accept the proposition that optional preference voting is a step on the way to first past the post voting. I do not believe that that in any way is necessarily so but I understand it is a view held by a number of people in the Opposition. I believe that optional preference voting would have an advantage- not just the advantage of simplicity but the advantage of enabling people to give preferences that were meaningful and then stop voting. From any theoretical point of view that is a desirable situation. 
I therefore express the hope that this idea is given greater thought, that more research is done into it and that we may hear of it again. I see difficulties for it. I see respectable argument for the proposition that although it is applicable to the Senate it may not be needed for the House of Representatives because in the latter case the problem of large fields of candidates does not usually arise. This method is not used in State elections and I can see one difficulty. If a new system is introduced for one House of one Parliament and it is not used in the State parliaments there is room for confusion when people vote in a State election. This is a problem that would have to be overcome. 
I think, however, that optional preference is an idea which should not be rejected by all out of hand. It should not be considered as a party political matter because, in my belief, it really would not have much effect upon the voting strength of the respective parties. I express this as a personal view which I have expressed publicly before. I hope that the matter will be considered still further at a later stage. 
I likewise have reservations about the rejection of the idea of party names being placed upon the ballot paper. From conversation with many people engaged in political work in my own Party in my own State, I believe there is a great deal of support for the idea that the party names should be on the ballot papers and that people should not have to depend upon a howtovote card given to them outside the polling booth. It would make for more informed voting. This idea is not accepted and I think that much of the reason for this is the very great difficulty which it involves in the registration of parties because the 2 things must naturally go together. If the names are to be on ballot papers there must be at the same time a register of parties. There must be some means whereby the names of parties are registered and identified. There must be someone such as an electoral officer to reject parties whose names too closely resemble each other or are confusing. These would be considerable powers to be given to an electoral officer. Therefore I see the force of those who say that there are a lot of objections to the proposals contained in the various clauses detailed in this Bill. Those matters could be overcome by amendment but extensive amendment would be required. Though this idea of inclusion of party names is rejected at this time I hope that this again will have further consideration in the future as it would make for more meaningful voting. 
The third of the regrets which I have about our attitude to this Bill is that allocation of positions by lot, provided for in clause 38 of the Bill, will not be supported by the Opposition. I have always thought that the Senate system, whereby our parties obtain their positions on the ballot paper by lot, would also be suitable for the House of Representatives. We do have that situation and therefore it is merely a matter of chance as to whether the party to which one belongs obtains a high or low position on the ballot paper. I see some advantage in this being provided for in the case of the House of Representatives rather than that there should be any particular advantage obtained by having a name that starts with A, B or C. But that is a matter upon which there is not common agreement in the Opposition.  Senator Melzer  spoke on this subject and referred to the donkey vote that is available to someone on the top of the poll. I think she over-estimated the importance of that. In her speech she gave as an example a person with a name starting with A or B and getting to the top of the poll who would then strut about deciding how to allocate his preferences. At least there is one thing about the donkey vote and that is that it generally goes straight down or straight across the card. There is one thing about an individual who stands and gets that donkey vote and that is that he gets perhaps 1 per cent or 2 per cent. But at least we know that the vote goes down the card and there is very little that that person can do to direct his or her preferences. 
-I think it depends. When I was elected last year I think it was about 1 per cent of the vote for the top group in the Senate. Eighty per cent of that vote went straight down the card, although the preferences were supposed to come to my Party. Only 20 per cent of it did go to my Party. So one can gain some idea from that sort of example of how important that donkey vote can be. 
-That is true. Perhaps the honourable senator has a different view from mine of the importance of that particular vote but to me it looked strangely like a donkey vote from the way I was looking at it. With regard to the matters I have raised I say that, although my Party takes a view which is critical of these matters, of course the Government has not argued for them or produced evidence or material which should have been put before this House, important matters as they are, I still hope that they will be considered again in a non-political atmosphere. We must make our judgments, in default of that non-political atmosphere, within our parties, and I am prepared to vote as the party, to which I belong, in its judgment, has decided upon these matters. 
I hope that, in the course of this debate and in the course of consideration in the Committee stages, the Government will look at the amendments which the Opposition is putting forward in, as far as is possible, a non-political light; that it will try to put aside the party advantage that may or may not be thought to flow from some amendment. I think it is not always so. It is often a matter of presumptions and in the political world I think we live with a great number of ideas which, on examination, have no real basis. I hope that consideration of the amendments to be moved to this Bill will be fruitful. I support the motion for the second reading of the Bill and trust that, from this consideration, will emerge a useful contribution to the electoral laws of this country. 
I ask my question of the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. I refer to a pamphlet entitled 'Australian Assistance Plan- A Say in Your Community', recently issued and distributed by the Australian Department of Social Security, in which the following statements appear: 
You could be surprised by the number of Government subsidy programs available. 
You may even feel grieved to discover how many sources of help your community has missed out on because it has not been properly organised. . . . 
We hope that the Australian Assistance Plan will soon spread over the entire country and once legislation has been introduced in Federal Parliament, the Australian Assistance Plan should ensure a better and fuller life for many thousands of people. . . . 
I ask: Does this indicate the continuing intention of the Government to deny the Parliament any opportunity of determining the nature, growth and powers of the regional and other bodies set up under the scheme or their relationship with existing local government bodies? 
I address my question to the Minister for the Media and refer to a report in the 'Age' newspaper of 18 April 1975 of the Minister's comment on Channel 9, Melbourne, the previous evening, as follows: 
Television entertainers should refrain from political comment. 
Was the Minister correctly reported? If not, what was the precise opinion he expressed? Does he not realise that the long and effective tradition set by political satirists and cartoonists in Great Britain is one of the best features of its democratic system? Is it possible that the Minister and his Department are doing more than he realises in encouraging political satire in this country? Does he not accept that political comment and satire from television entertainers could be one effective way of pricking the self-esteem and undue pomposity of Ministers and other politicians in the rarefied atmosphere of Canberra? 
-There is no justification for the fears that  Senator Milliner  has about this proposal. After all, before a person would get his name on this roll he would have to apply. He would have to sign the application and no doubt the records would be kept by the Returning Officer. If somebody was not in the district and somebody else picked up the ballot paper and signed it the situation would be pretty dangerous because the record of signature would be in the possession of the Returning Officer. There is very little reason to think that that situation is likely to occur. 
Two steps are involved. Firstly an application has to be made for a ballot paper and then there is the necessity for a witness to sign the application. People in these very remote situations who want to vote have the difficulty of getting somebody, an authorised witness, to witness their signature on the application form. That is a problem which could arise for people in remote situations, quite apart from any other difficulties they may have by reason of distance. I think they have enough problems already without knowing that because of the poor mail service in these areas they may well miss out on their opportunity to vote. 
I think that this is a highly desirable idea to put into our Electoral Act. It is not, as I understand it, a request from a State; it is simply that this has been used in a State and is thought by the Opposition to be a desirable idea. Therefore it has been put forward and I urge support for it. 
I think the Minister perhaps has not taken it quite far enough. I would suggest, with respect to  Senator Wright,  that this is indeed a matter of importance. It is not a matter in which one can say that the amount involved is only $200, because if the offence continues and the member is obdurate and continues to sit in the Parliament, the amount could, of course, be considerably more. I would suggest that also, apart from that, the fact that this is dealing with the situation of a member of the Australian Parliament makes it appropriate that it should go to a federal court, the High Court, the highest court in the land, to be dealt with. It will obviously affect that member not only in the amount involved but also in what it does to his standing in the community. For these reasons also, I think it is appropriate that it should go to the High Court. 
-Is the Minister for the Media aware of Gallup poll and other findings published this morning which show that most Australians are opposed to the proposal that 75 per cent of prime television time should be given to Australian-produced programs and record opposition to further government controls on television and radio? If he is, does he propose, in the light of these expressed opinions, to recommend changes in the Government's expressed legislative and administrative intentions in these areas? 
I present a petition from 125 citizens of Australia praying that the Parliament reject the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975.I would like the petition to be read but as it exceeds 250 words I ask that leave be given for the petition to be read by the  Clerk. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the haste of the Australian Government in announcing its recognition of the new Cambodian Government, I ask: Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs exercised the same speed and sense of urgency in checking the widely reported allegations about the unprecedented and immediate expulsion of millions of people, including hospital inpatients, from Phnom Penh and other cities? If not, why not? Is it not evident that such an act against humanity is now being perpetrated and that the Australian people and the Government should at least protest in an endeavour to save lives? 
I desire to make some remarks in respect of an item which was being considered when this debate was adjourned on 23 April. At that time  Senator Greenwood  raised for consideration the item in regard to legal aid. An amount of $250,000 is sought under this item for additional legal aid to existing legal aid authorities. In that debate  Senator Greenwood  referred to a dispute which was then current, and it is illustrative of the very unsatisfactory position in which legal aid stands in this country.  Senator Greenwood  referred in his speech to a sum of $307,682 which will probably be familiar to members of this chamber because it has been a matter of current dispute between the Commonwealth Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  and the Attorney-General of the State of Victoria for some considerable time. In the earlier debate  Senator Greenwood  pointed out that in February there had been a promise of a cheque for this amount to go to the Legal Aid Committee of Victoria through the State Government, and subsequently the Commonwealth Attorney-General had decided that he would place some conditions on the payment of this money. At the time there was in my opinion no valid reason for the conditions which he sought to impose. As we all know, since that time a payment has been made. There had been disputations between the 2 Attorneys-General. Ultimately, by a petty act, the Commonwealth Attorney-General chose to pay that money to the Legal Aid Committee and not to the State of Victoria despite the fact that money paid to all the other States had been paid to the State authority. As I understand it, the Legal Aid Committee has properly paid the money to the State of Victoria. 
I bring this matter to the attention of the Committee because it illustrates the fact that in this Bill we are once more finding a situation in which there has been no satisfactory resolution of the problems which arise in legal aid in this country. This continues to be a sore which ought to be cured. I suppose that some of the responsibility in this present dispute might lie in the hands of the State Attorney-General of Victoria. There are problems in the legal aid field because claims have been made on the funds allocated to the local legal aid service, and because there is that difficulty one would think that perhaps there might be more co-operation but the fundamental absence of co-operation lies with the Commonwealth and this nation which not only has control over money but also ought to be giving a lead in resolving this problem. 
Since the last sitting honourable senators and no doubt members of the House of Representatives have received letters from  Mr Enderby  asking us where we think a legal aid office should be set up in our own States and electorates. There is obviously no intention on his part, as there was not on the part of the previous Attorney-General, to regularise the situation and to place in this community a commission which would regulate legal aid in a proper way, which would distribute money through State commissions and which would thereby ensure that all proper services for legal aid were covered and there was no duplication. I replied to  Mr Enderby  and said that so far as I was concerned what he should do first was get his legal aid affairs in order. I said: 
the first thing you should do is to regularise, through legislation, the position and activity of your Legal Atd Offices, and thereby remove much of the suspicion and alarm which is to be found in the legal profession at the present time as to the unending nature of the expansion of their work. I believe there is a strong need for co-ordinating the areas of Legal Aid and that a Commission to this effect and the regularising of the activities of the Legal Aid Office should be achieved without delay. 
That is the very thing that has not happened and that is the very thing that causes many suspicious people in the States, and perhaps the conservative members of my own profession, to have a great fear about the unending development of legal aid offices throughout the country. This fear is not without justification and it makes it very difficult for bodies such as the Australian Law Council, the Law Institute of Victoria and similar bodies in other States to come to a rational arrangement with the Commonwealth authorities over this matter. When one considers the spate of publicity and the money being spent on legal aid publications of dubious accuracy I think one can do no better than take into account the very sensible words of  Mr K.  F. O'Leary,  President  of the Law Council of Australia, who in a letter of 8 May to the 'Age', dealing with the substantial campaign on legal aid through the Press and television, had these things to say: 
The tenor of the current advertisements and particularly their omission of any reference to other existing schemes does point to the emerging development of a spirit of com.petition and rivalry between the existing schemes on the one and and the Australian Legal Aid Office on the other. That this is to be deplored is surely evident. Competition and rivalry in providing legal aid can only, at the best, be wasteful of resources and lead to unnecessary duplication of services. 
In speaking of the need to rationalise and coordinate the provision of legal aid, which I think ought to be uppermost in our minds,  Mr O  'Leary said: 
It was partly with this in mind that the Law Council of Australia as far back as October of last year urged the then Attorney-General to set up an independent statutory legal aid commission whose functions would include, among other things, not only the provision of legal aid through the Australian Legal Aid Office, but also the definition of the scope of the services to be provided by that office and the coordination with those services of the aid to be provided by other existing schemes. 
I believe that the great bulk of legal aid in this country can be properly engaged and sustained through existing legal aid services. I believe that the voluntary use of the professions, so that people receive aid not as a matter of charity but as a matter of normal legal dealings, can and should provide the great bulk of it. But this should be regularised through a commission and through State commissions so that it is distributed according to different needs. There are different needs and different set-ups in the different States. In my own State of Victoria, where this is so, there is a private profession in the law which does certain legal aid work for certain people. There is a legal aid committee which is created by the barristers and solicitors and operates with a lot of voluntary help. It results in people being sent to firms of solicitors and those firms being paid by the legal aid committee. In the past that money has come from the interest on trust accounts of solicitors. 
There are other voluntary services that tend to be overlooked. I acknowledge that among the moneys paid this year is a sum of $23,000 to the Fitzroy Legal Service in Victoria. It and a number of others are mostly run by voluntary workers, people who provide one of the necessary things in legal aid. I refer to offices that are open at night where people can obtain service without losing time from work. This obviously is an area which is in need of greater assistance and greater recognition, and it will come only through the establishment of a proper commission, not just a commission such as the Government has in mind, of an advisory nature, but one which has substantial powers to determine where the real needs are. 
The last two in this category of legal aid services are the public solicitors who do necessary work in the States and the Australian Legal Aid Office, a body which has no statutory foundation, which has never been brought before this Parliament but which, as the previous AttorneyGeneral made clear to me when I once spoke to him about this, proposes to proceed to open office after office and to see how they work. It was proposed that some legislation be brought in later. We know that promises of legislation have been made at Estimates Committee hearings but that legislation has never come forward. It is obvious that the Government is acting on the situation that it will have a fait accompli; it will have established very widespread offices and then perhaps some legislation will come along to give them validity. There is very dubious validity in the existing offices and there is the possibility of actions being taken outside this chamber in the law to establish the legality or otherwise of the existing offices. That is an entirely unsatisfactory position and it is high time the Commonwealth Attorney-General took a lead. I know that he has had discussions with various groups but at the same time there is no evidence here after all this time that he is proposing to introduce legislation that is worth while. It is necessary that there be responsible behaviour on the part of this Government but this is not evident in the proposals that have been put either in the estimates now before us or those of last year. There is a need for profession based aid and for a regulated system that operates in all areas. 
There is a need for cover for people who do not even know that they have a legal problem. Therefore one must get into those areas and establish for people the opportunity of knowing their rights. There is a need for duty solicitors in the courts. There is a need to cover the field of legal aid and not duplicate areas by wastage of money. There is a need to comply with section 96 of the Constitution so that moneys go through the States to State commissions and thereby there is regularity of behaviour in accordance with our Constitution. I take this opportunity of reminding the Senate again that under the provisions made we still have a government which refuses to face up to the responsibility it has to co-ordinate and establish properly a legal aid system in this country. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Was a strong protest directed to the Minister and to other persons by  Mr Frank  Galbally, an experienced Melbourne lawyer, in respect of the recent trial and gaol sentence, in Singapore, of  Mr Tan  Wah-Piow, the 23 year old  President  of the University of Singapore Student 's Union. 
Did the Minister institute inquiries; if so, do they indicate whether the reported criticism of the trial as 'political persecution' and 'a political frame-up' are justified and that among other complaints the student leader was browbeaten by the trial judge and denied free access to his witnesses, who had been deported before the trial. 
Does the Australian Government propose to make any representations to the Singapore Government on these serious allegations, and in respect to questions of civil liberties raised by Australian observers. 
I should like to query one matter. I agree with what  Senator Withers  has said that the first mandatory question that ought to be asked by the presiding officer is the first question appearing in the Act as it now stands. It seems to me that logically it should be the first question to be asked. A person should be asked whether he has voted anywhere else and then he should be asked whether he lives within a particular electorate. The amendment actually makes it the third question to be asked. I think that that is unwise, if it is to be put back into the mandatory group of questions, as I believe it should be. I think that logically it should be the first question as it now is in the present Act. I invite  Senator Withers'  consideration of that matter. 
It seems to me to be quite ludicrous to suggest that we can have 2 different sets of polling hours for different places. If one thing is necessary in an electoral Bill in regard to polling hours and also other things, it is consistency. In respect of people who may be in hospital, it should be borne in mind that if they are taken out for the day they can vote at any time up to 8 o'clock somewhere else, but if they are in hospital on polling day under this clause they may vote only up to 6 p.m. This is adding confusion in the minds of people who are sometimes in a position of weakness and who will not realise that their rights vary in this way. It is consequential, as  Senator Withers  has said; but, apart from that, it is common sense to have the one set of hours for polling for the whole of the Commonwealth. 
I am sure that what I have to say will not satisfy  Senator Cavanagh,  because he takes the view that accountability is something that happens only at the time of Budgets and that in the meanwhile we should not draw the attention of the Parliament, on the few occasions on which we have the opportunity to do so, to areas in which there is a neglect by the Government and in which things should be done. 
Using the item of the Joint House Department, I want to bring to the attention of honourable senators particularly some matters related to the conditions of living in these Houses of Parliament which are occupied by people who are here as members or as employees. I want to say just in passing, in regard to the amount which is questioned and which is to be deferred, that I am very interested to note that the amount of $ 120 m for 
Advance to the Treasurer appears in each Bill. It seems strange that that particular figure should appear in both Bills. 
We have received the answer, of course, that such matters should be raised under special legislation. What I am raising here is not a matter which requires special legislation; it is a matter which requires special attention by the officers responsible for the conditions of living in this Parliament. I refer to a matter which I first raised in the Estimates Committees on 31 October 1974. As reported at page 467 of the Hansard record, I drew the attention of the representative of the Joint House Department,  Mr Hillyer,  to the conditions of heating, the conditions of health, the lack of ventilation and the excessively dry atmospheric conditions in this building. I sought to ascertain why these things were so and what could be done about the situation. I will not read all of what took place at that time, but as a result of the discussion the  Chairman  asked  Mr Hillyer  this question: 
What do you think yourself,  Mr Hillyer?  Do you think that this is a healthy place, to coin a phrase, air-wise? 

 Mr Hillyer said: 
No, I do not. 
He went on to refer to the age of the building and said we should recognise that though this building may be somewhat aged we will be here for many years. 
I would bet on it because I have not seen any signs of great speed by the Government regarding the new plans. Therefore, in the period that we will be in this building it is important that members of Parliament and the officers employed in this building should work under conditions in which efficiency can prevail. In the Estimates Committee the  Chairman  asked: 
Is it curable or not? Do we have to wait until we get into the stratosphere up on Capital Hill before we can breathe healthy air, or have there been any suggestions that parliamentarians might deserve slightly better air to breathe every day? Is it a subject about which you are at all concerned? 
These are not fairy tales; these are questions asked by a respected Labor senator who was the  Chairman  of that Committee at that time.  Mr Hillyer  replied: 
Yes. As I say, we have recognised the inadequacy of the ventilation. In fact, we have gone along some part of the way towards achieving a long-term solution to the problem, and that is the air-conditioning of the old main structure of the building. At this point of time there has been installed what we could call a ring main system, which is a bulk supply of chilled and hot water in the ceilings above the main floor. This has been done, and there is now only the job remaining of tapping that chilled and hot water line and installing duct work, fans and all the associated work that goes with airconditioning. But the bulk supply of the refrigerant and the hot water is there. 
I ask honourable senators to note that: It is already there. It has been there for some years but we have not proceeded to finish off this work. When asked by the  Chairman  what was proposed to be done,  Mr Hillyer  said: 
Some areas have already been done by tapping that main area. But at the moment there is no concrete proposal that I know of to take it any further. 
Finally, when asked whether anything was proposed to be done, he said: 
No, as far as I am concerned there is no reason why it cannot be done. I am not sure whether there is any technical problem. There is none that I am aware of. 
I have waited in vain for some further statement about what is being done in this matter. 
I have not just waited to see whether this airconditioning work, which has been almost finished, is to be completed. I have had correspondence with the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association which is concerned about all these matters which are related to the working conditions in Parliament House. In a letter which was written as long ago as 29 August 1974 to the Joint House Department, the Secretary of the Parliament Section of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association,  Mr Gary  Brown, said: 
The Committee - 
That is of the Associationwas  unanimous in its concern that full and adequate measures for the prevention of fires in the building and, if fire breaks out, for the protection of Press gallery staff and honourable "senators and members should be provided. 
The correspondence raised, in particular, the question of fire danger to which I now turn. The Association pointed out that there was an urgent requirement for the drawing up of contingency plans for possible evacuation of the building in the event of fire. It went on to state: 
Given the age of the building and what we know of its construction- -particularly in the roofs- the risk of major fire cannot be ignored. Such a fire would put at risk the lives of parliamentarians, of parliamentary officers, of the Press and the visiting public. It would also threaten many valuable records. The Committee is very concerned that adequate precautions against fire are taken, and would be very glad to hear from your Department on this matter. 
At that stage the correspondence dealt with the question of fire. Following an unsatisfactory answer, in my opinion, from the Joint House Department, on 30 September 1974 the Parliament Section of the Administrative and Clerical 
Officers Association again wrote to the Joint House Department and said: 
The Committee remains concerned about some aspects of the fire situation which are not covered in your letter to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Staffs Association last April. 
The Association went on to draw attention to the fact that it was also concerned about the question of fire in the Parliamentary Annexe. After I had raised the general question of conditions in Parliament House at the Estimates Committee hearing, and following other correspondence, the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association wrote to me on 20 December 1974 and said: 
You will see from the correspondence that we are most concerned about the safety of all who serve within the precincts of Parliament (including of course members of Parliament) visitors, members of the Press gallery and also of the many important parliamentary and administrative papers housed at Parliament House. 
There appears to be a serious lack of training or instructions for fire wardens or their deputies and from the letter of 3 October 1974 from the Acting Secretary, Joint House Department, it appears lack of available resources and funds is preventing the implementation of additional procedures to the systems established for Parliament House, its occupants or its records. 
As I understand it at the present time, the situation in respect of fire remains unchanged. From this stage I took up with the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association the other questions of atmospheric conditions and working conditions in Parliament House that I have already mentioned. I have received correspondence from the Parliament Section of the Association on the matters which I raised, and I desire to read some of its conclusions. It said this in a letter: 
The Section Committee considered the Senator's queries about atmospheric conditions, and has the following comments, which I would be glad if you could pass on. 
Parliamentary Annex: Is usually heated by boiler in  winter,  but this is turned off at weekends takes a considerable time to warm up again. Because the wiring of the Hotel Canberra is not good, it is not possible to have both lights and electric heating simultaneously- the lights fail, and the staff have had to work by torchlight on some occasions. With no electric heating while the boiler warms, the air gets very cold. 
What an unsatisfactory situation for this Parliament to place its employees in at the Parliamentary Annexe which we have recently established. In regard to Parliament House the Parliament Section of ACOA stated: 
Parts of the building (e.g., Library) are air conditioned because materials kept there need even temperature or because VIP's work there. However, other parts are not, and the age of the building means that even air conditioned areas are not always well ventilated. 
It also seems that there is no humidifier attached to the air conditioning (if there is, it is most inefficient), and the air can get excessively dry. Some staff have had eye trouble as a consequence. 
Another spinoff of dry air in winter has been troublesome static electricity discharges. Staff walking around build up a static charge against synthetic carpets. In moderately humid air, such charges leak away, but in dry air the leakage is very small. As a result the charge is removed only when somebody touches a metal object or another person. The spark and the snap of discharge can be quite often seen and heard and (speaking for experience) can be quite painful, even causing minor finger burns. Some staff become reluctant to touch metal in winter, though the longer you avoid it, the bigger the shock when you inevitably forget. 
These matters all come together as conditions which in this Parliament are in no way good enough. They indicate, as we all are aware, the working conditions of the people in this building who work abnormally long hours when compared with normal working standards. Members of this Parliament can speak for themselves and perhaps do something about this matter, but obviously the staff have been fobbed off. Obviously the Parliament has been fobbed off. When I raised this matter in the Estimates Committee hearing last year I was followed by  Senator Young  who referred to the particular question of fire precaution, but that matter was fobbed off. 
I put it to the Government that, considering the important nature of the work that is carried out in the building, and not just as a matter of the sheer comfort of the members of this Parliament, it is high time that the extra work was planned. There should have been some reference to it in the Supply Bill, so that we would know that something will be done. Surely it will not be costly to complete work that, in a major sense, has already been done in this building. I call on the Government to indicate if it has the interests of the staff of this building at heart and to come forward with proposals that will remedy this disgraceful situation. 
-Senator Walsh has brought my name into the debate and has leant so heavily on me that I regret that I have to do him the discourtesy of saying that I am not terribly happy with the leaning. I feel that a few words should be said by me on this subject. I have already spoken in the debate on the motion for the second reading of this Bill and made my views clear. They are that I do not agree entirely with, for example, the views of my colleague  Senator Scott  in that I do not see this system of optional preferential voting as necessarily leading to another system. In that respect we have a difference of opinion. At the same time I see some advantage in the idea of the introduction of optional preferential voting on the simple view that if people do not have to keep choosing artificially beyond the desires they have for candidates there is much in the theory and much in the merit of their being able to stop at a certain stage. 
I have been impressed with the argument for this point of view not by what has been said in this chamber- certainly not by what has been said in this chamber by the Government because it has been curiously very silent.  Senator Willesee  is now laughing. If one looks at his second reading speech one will see that there is in it one page of padding in which he advocates this system but that there is no evidence of a material study of this system. There has been no refutal of the material which  Senator Baume  has put forward which suggests curiously enough that the introduction of such a system will not have a great effect, if any, on the informal voting. Those are serious questions that ought to be raised. I assure  Senator Walsh  that, having my own views on this subject and having endeavoured in certain ways to convince my colleagues of the merit of them, if I am not successful in convincing my colleagues of their merit I do not act as a type of veto of my colleagues but accept the judgment of my colleagues. I will accordingly vote with my colleagues on this subject. I will not find that difficult to do because we belong to a party system in which the combined judgment of one's party is the one that must prevail, except in the exceptional circumstances of a matter of conscience. 
So far as this matter is concerned, I repeat that the onus is on the Government to satisfy the people. A point that I do not think has been mentioned tonight is what would happen in the States if we were to introduce a new system like this one. We still have State elections in which one must vote for every person on the ballot paper. What would happen if we were to have a federal election in which one had to vote for only some of the candidates? It may well be argued- I am not suggesting that I have any proof on the subject- that this would result in informal voting occurring in the State elections and in other ways. If we are changing a system like this we must change it throughout our voting systems, State and federally, otherwise there will be unfortunate effects. One must take all of these matters into account when considering whether there should be a change. I say that a lot of work needs to be done in convincing the people and those authorities that determine the holding of elections in the States that this is a desirable scheme. I have risen just to say that, insofar as  Senator Walsh  is concerned, I would not like to be regarded as in any way accepting the type of arguments that he sought to advance in this debate. Regrettably the Government obviously has not done its homework on this subject. 
I address my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it a fact that there are now more than 900 journalists employed by the Australian Government, including ministerial staffs, departments and other authorities? If not, what are the numbers currently so employed? Will the Minister further advise the Senate of the numerical and percentage increases in journalistic and other public relations staffs employed by the Australian Government since it took office in December 1972? Will he also give to the Senate a list showing the number of journalists and other public relations staff in each department or statutory authority and on each ministerial staff? 
I think I should say a few words, although I was not intending to speak at this stage of the debate. In view of the recent irrelevant remarks that have just been made I think something should be said about what happened on 23 April. Quite a lot has been reported in the Press.  Mrs Child,  in the other place, wrote a letter to a newspaper claiming, quite incorrectly, that pensions were not being paid because Bills did not go through the chamber. Here is another example of an attempt to throw to the Opposition some responsibility for this Bill not coming on. 
We all know that Government members were ready, willing and- fortunately for them- able to leave on 23 April. True, they voted against the adjournment of the Senate for political ploy purposes, but everyone knows that they had the business of the Senate in their hands that week. They chose not to sit on the Wednesday morning of that week. They chose to bring other pieces of legislation into the chamber and to debate them at length. They claimed, of course, that we were not prepared to let the Supply and Appropriation Bills go through. They wanted us to pass them without proper consideration. That is what it amounted to, and that is what they would have desired if they could have had their choice. 
This is all totally irrelevant to this Bill. It is just another piece of fog to try to obscure the true position and to place in the minds of the people of Darwin some idea that it was not Government mismanagement that was the cause of this Bill not coming on- when clearly it was Government mismanagement- but that somehow it is the responsibility of the Opposition. It is not in any way, and it was not on that day. Therefore it should be clearly stated that the Government must accept the responsibility of its own failure to bring on legislation which it regards as urgent and to bring on other legislation which clearly was not urgent. That responsibility must remain where it always was- with the Government. 
I  support what has been said by  Senator DrakeBrockman  and I want to emphasise the point he made towards the conclusion of his speech, namely, that in this Bill there is a very vague clause in clause 4, which gives the Minister power without any qualifications, without the Parliament in any way adverting to the terms on which it is to be given. I think that the Opposition's amendments do set that out and they set it out in a reasonable way. We have to remember that this was a major disaster in the community, but it is not the only disaster that has occurred. There have been and there will be many other occasions when people who suffer loss due to this type of disaster and to other types of disaster do not get compensation in this way. Therefore I think it is necessary to set some standard and make some judgment and provide an opportunity for appeal in the way in which it is provided in these amendments. 
Primarily, I want to direct my comments to the only matter which the Minister chose to deal with in expressing the opposition of the Government to the amendments. That was what I consider to be a most extraordinary idea of the meaning of the word 'proof in proposed clause 4a (c), which requires the person who is claiming to give proof of possession, entitlement, loss or damage suffered. The Minister came forward with some extraordinary idea that this is really proof beyond reasonable doubt. 
The Minister wanted some patience when he was putting his argument and I ask for the same patience from him. I know he is eager to hear what it really does mean because it was clear from his speech that he does not know. One speaks of proof and one speaks of evidence, and the Minister in one sentence used them as alternatives. They are not quite alternatives because evidence is produced to prove certain things. Clearly, as these are civil claims, it is not a case where one could expect proof beyond reasonable doubt. Surely proof here cannot be interpreted as meaning that a person must produce receipts. 
-Perhaps the Minister will let me finish my argument. If there are any dregs remaining then  Senator Greenwood  can pick them up. So far as I am concerned this proof would be a proof which satisfies the person making the decision that it is a genuine claim. If on the balance of probabilities it appears to be a genuine claim, it may be proved by oral evidence or it may be proved possibly by the production of receipts but it is most likely that receipts would have been blown away with the rest of the articles. I would expect that if there were suspicions, some evidence might be required to satisfy the person making the judgment that in fact it is a genuine claim. The amendment goes no further than that. 
The suggestion that the Minister makes, in his own words, that he would instruct his officers rigidly to demand proof is, I think, merely intended, to intimidate the people in this chamber. It is not intended to be taken seriously by anyone else. He obviously would not act in that way and is not required under the terms of this amendment to do so. If on the balance of probabilities it is a satisfactory claim and it is thought to be an honest and genuine one, then it would be accepted, but it is necessary for such provisions to be put in this Bill, not left as it is or according to such directions as the Minister might determine later to lay down. It is better that this Parliament should put them in the Bill. Therefore I think there is nothing whatsoever in the criticism- the only criticism- which the Minister has made in respect of these amendments, namely, in relation to the word 'proof. 
There is another matter I had desired to raise in the Committee stage by way of question to the Minister. A considerable amount of money was raised to relieve the suffering of Darwin residents. Much of this fund raising was done by service organisations and a good deal was raised through appeals by newspapers and other forms of the media. In the city of Melbourne there is some concern at the lack of knowledge as to how this money is being expended. I raise this concern in relation to the extent this relief assistance will be taken into account in the assessment of compensation. 
-Quite apart from that, I raise for the consideration of the Minister now or in the near future, because of the concern which has been raised by people who properly contributed to a generous cause, the question of who is controlling the disbursement of funds raised by voluntary organisations; how much money has already been distributed; how much money remains; whether the funds are being distributed from a centralised source; whether the Darwin residents are satisfied with the disbursement procedures, and whether the moneys are being effectively supervised. I think it is important that this information should be known by members of the community who made these contributions. I invite the Minister to let us know at some stage whether he has any information on this matter. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. It relates to the question which was asked today of the Leader of the Government in the Senate by  Senator Greenwood.  I ask: Is the Minister aware of the threat, reported in last night's Melbourne Herald', by the federal executive of the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union seeking the support of the Australian Council of Trade Unions for a total ban on communications of private insurance companies because of their campaign against the proposed Australian Government Insurance Corporation? Does the Minister agree that the threatened ban arises, at least in part, from the continuous and prearranged campaign of denigration of the companies which he pursued in the Senate last week and is continuing today? Is he prepared to recognise the elementary right to free speech and communication which all citizens and organisations are entitled to enjoy in this democracy? Will he therefore make an immediate repudiation of the threatened ban? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is the Australian Government aware of a plan by Middle East oil producers, led by Algeria, to turn the forthcoming international energy summit meeting into a platform for the promotion of cartels of raw material producers to the detriment of consumers. 
Does this plan require the support of nations with a developed economy like Australia, Canada or South Africa for its success. 
Does the Australian Government propose to join in resources diplomacy at the expense of Great Britain and other western nations by falling in with this plan. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. Has the Department of Transport amended regulations to allow the Nomad aircraft to be certified for short restricted landing strips so that the unique short take-off and landing capabilities of the aircraft can be exploited by civil aviation? What effect have the restrictions in the regulations had on sales of Nomad aircraft to this date? 

 -Mr President, this Bill has been described by  Senator Everett  as a simple Bill. Of course, if one looks literally at the Bill one sees that it is not a very long Bill. If one looks at the Australian Constitution one finds that it is not long either. Presumably on the tests which  Senator Everett  would apply, it is also simple. That simple enactment has been subjected to 75 years of hard interpretation, and we know that it is extremely difficult. This applies even to the particular areas of the Constitution that were put in by simple laymen who said that they were not going to have lawyers' terms in it. This Bill, likewise, is a complex one because it involves the very grave question of the extent of the powers which are obscured in its present phraseology. We in the Opposition do not apologise for one moment for saying that it is a Bill which requires very adequate consideration. We have had no Inter-State Commission for 55 years and now we have a proposal before us to restore it. If we do that we must ensure that it does not suffer the fate suffered by the other body 55 years ago. Also we must ensure that it has an adequate purpose suitable not for those years but for the requirements of today. 
They are not comparable, as  Senator Hall  points out, because we have legislation such as the Trade Practices Act which is so different from legislation of that period. This reminds me that we have heard very curious arguments from speakers on the Government side today. Perhaps we should apologise for that to some extent because they too are lacking a long consideration and deliberation on this Bill and therefore are forced to bring forward curious arguments. 
This afternoon I heard the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Wriedt,  put 3 arguments which ought to be answered. Some of my colleagues have been a bit unkind in not answering them to this stage.  Senator Wriedt  wanted to bring before the Senate the record of Opposition senators who at times have expressed support for the Inter-State Commission and he sought to rely for support on the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review in 1959 which recommended the re-establishment of an InterState Commission. However, what he ignored and what he must be reminded of now is that the reason for the establishment of a Commission then was completely different from the reason put forward today. Paragraph 140 of that report says: 
Section 10 1 of the Constitution states that there shall be an Inter-State Commission. It also provides that the Parliament may confer upon the Commission powers of adjudication and administration for the execution and maintenance of the provisions of the Constitution relating to trade and commerce and laws made thereunder. The Committee believes  that the Commission would be an appropriate authority to inquire and report to the Parliament whether a restrictive trade practice is contrary to the public interest. There has not been an Inter-State Commission for many years, but section 101 provides that there should be such a body. In the Committee's opinion, the Inter-State Commission should be reestablished. 
The only reason given for its re-establishment is that it is to serve a purpose which we are now to put into operation through this Bill. It is another body to deal with. Therefore one cannot just take the fact that certain people express a belief in it and a desire for it. The most important question, and this is the only point on which I could agree with  Senator Everett,  involves the powers and the functions of the Commission. Like  Senator Wright,  I accept that there is probably good cause for re-establishing this body, but the important questions in my mind are what its powers shall be and to what extent it will operate. Both these areas need to be limited. 

 Senator Wriedt this afternoon made another point when he said that this Bill is coming before us not without warning; it is a subject which has been debated very often. That is so. Over the years people have raised the matter, but now we have before us for the first time a Bill which has to be determined in relation to its terms and powers. That is the heart of it- not the general subject of debate which has operated in a desultory fashion for many years. The third point he made this afternoon, which also was curious, was that he relied upon clauses 9 and 12 of the Bill. He suggested that in those clauses were designed protections for the States. That in itself is an oddity because in both those provisions, and they must be in part or whole desirable provisions, there are restrictions on the States. It is the exceptions in those clauses which are designed to render certain matters not unlawful. Therefore nobody can say that this is a Bill designed for the protection of the States. It is a Bill designed to put into effect a constitutional provision and this puts it in a special category. It is not designed just for the protection of the States. 
This evening we heard further arguments from  Senator Everett  who thinks this Bill is such a simple one. The very interesting argument which he brought before the Senate concerned the grave disability of the Federal Government through it having inadequate economic power. What can conceivably be the importance of that reference in relation to this Bill? I thought the Government was trying to get a power and was intending to use that power only in regard to transport. Are we to understand from his reference that this is to be a means of achieving further economic power desired by the Government? Is this a new way of avoiding the defeat of referenda where people express their opinion? Is this another way to increase the Government's powers? Under the Bill as it stands that might well be an interpretation. Perhaps the Bill, if properly limited, might not have that effect. 
Then  Senator Everett  expressed the view, and I suppose we should expect this, that we are opposing the continuance of this debate past the second reading stage and are seeking an adjournment of it because we are waiting on the views of our electoral masters. Of course, this is the common catch cry. If by that he means that we are wanting to wait until the people in this community who have an interest in this Bill and who will be affected by it express their views, and if we are waiting for the States who are after all part of the Constitution and part of this country to express their views, then he is right. Certainly I for one want to give the opportunity to those who are affected by this Bill to express their views and to put their views in writing, rather than just put this legislation through and let the consequences come as they may. There is to my mind no doubt that the members of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review have a right to be heard in this matter, and they have not been heard so far. 
Let us look at the history of this Bill to this stage. After 55 years we have a Bill brought into this Parliament, and this is the first opportunity we have had to see the terms of it and the powers given under it to this proposed institution. After 12 days from its introduction debate takes place in the House of Representatives. The second reading debate is gagged after a few speakers in the House of Representatives and the Bill is declared an urgent Bill. There is then allowed less than half an hour for the Committee stages of the Bill. Imagine, in respect of a Bill of this nature,- the insult to the people of this country that is to be found in the idea that a new institution of this sort should be in its detail determined by that House of Parliament in half an hour. Consequently there has been no adequate debate in the House of Representatives. It is the duty of this Senate to see that both in this chamber and throughout the community there is adequate debate on the Bill. 
-It would satisfy  Senator Everett  to do this before the public is aware of the contents of this Bill and before we have considered the details of it. What is the urgency for this Bill to be passed this month or next month when we have waited 55 years for it? There is no such ground of urgency. We are asked to rely upon  Mr Jones  telling us that this Bill is designed just in respect of transport or for some other reason, but we have seen his actions in regard to the road legislation which was introduced last year. We had to hold up Bills and force him to limit his demands on that area. We know that he is the same man who will be using the provisions of this Bill if it goes through in its present form. 
That is quite obvious. He has tried this before and was beaten back in certain areas. I have no doubt that this is a further lunge forward to implement the Labor Party platform. I concede that there are some grounds for the adoption of a Bill to implement the constitutional provisions. It is not just a matter in this case of taking powers from the States by introducing a Commission of this nature. It depends upon the powers that are taken. It is something which the founding fathers of the Constitution contemplated as a desirable institution. They said in clear terms: 
There shall be an Inter-State Commission, with such powers of adjudication and administration as the Parliament deems necessary for the execution and maintenance, within the Commonwealth, of the provisions of this Constitution relating to trade and commerce, and of all laws made thereunder. 
So, it is an institution which was contemplated at the time of the foundation of the Australian Parliament when the powers were allocated between the Commonwealth and the States. In the report of the debate which took place on this Bill in the House of Representatives one finds references by Opposition speakers to the possible powers and how they might be used.  Mr Nixon,  leading for the Opposition, as reported at page 1 867 of Hansard, said: 
The Opposition believes that the need exists for a body which will have power to regulate transport in Australia within the limitations provided for in the Constitution. 
So, in relation to transport there is a consideration which he expressed and which I express, namely, that there ought to be a body to do this. He went on to say: 
The Opposition would support a Bill to create an interstate commission which was intended to be a regulatory body in the field of transport. 
Therefore in that area, as  Senator Wright  has mentioned tonight in a very cogent way in relation to Tasmania, there is some substance certainly in the proposal that a body should exist in relation to areas of transport. Likewise, in the debate on this Bill in the House of Representatives, as reported at page 1876,  Mr Ellicott  had this to say: 
Should there be a commission? It may well be that there are good and sufficient reasons for having a commission of some description. I have already conceded that. A commission which has wide investigatory powers to look into questions of malpractice and at ways of making interstate trade more efficient was the original and real intention of the Constitution. 
He felt that was the only justification. But obviously there are different views and there may be a gradation of views which we will need to consider at length before we come to a final decision as to what shall be the powers of the Commission. I say that the State governments certainly have an interest and a right to be heard in relation to the powers that would be ascribed to this body. I believe that we have to take into account the effects which a body such as this may have on existing State rights and State responsibilities. We also have to consider the extent of the powers and how they would affect bodies such as Trade Practices Commission, the Prices Justification Tribunal and other bodies which the Commonwealth Government has seen fit to set up, and to determine to what extent they should be overridden in any fields of power. These are matters that are basic, and the work on these matters has not been done.  j 
I have listened to the proposals which  Senator Wright  has made tonight and I have heard of them before. Undoubtedly there is a very unsatisfactory situation from which Tasmania has suffered over many years, and it may well be that one of the specific things that this Commission should do is to rectify the problems which Tasmania has in interstate trade and commerce, in shipping and in the other areas which  Senator Wright  has mentioned. 
Trade and commerce is the area which is covered by the powers under the Constitution, and this may well be. I do not form a final judgment on this because I want to see much more. I do not suggest for one moment that I have read enough and that I am satisfied that I know sufficient of the history and sufficient of the complex position in transport today to say yet how far the powers should go; but it does seem to me at the present time that in relation to Tasmania some specific powers may well be very desirable. We have heard many comments and I suppose that all honourable senators have received a number of letters in regard to this Bill from organisations and individuals. I would like to refer to a document prepared by the 
Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia and to views- fairly moderate views- it has expressed on this Bill. After proceeding to look at the Bill and the powers, it makes specific reference to the powers of investigation which it appears to feel are strong and, I think, adequate. It concludes its summary by saying these things: 
In view of this, there are at least two areas of major concern. The first of these is the way in which the Commission's power can be boosted merely by the use of delegated or subordinate legislation which is not, and cannot effectively, be subjected to the accepted approach of Parliamentary scrutiny. 
Secondly, the Bill creates an incredibly powerful administrative tool that is not subject to judicial review except in the most meagre fashion. While the Commission will have to live within the Constitution it can, and probably will, exert such a fundamental influence, in view of its extremely wide powers, on the trade and commerce of this country as to be capable of surpassing the influence of the States and other Federal institutions or bodies.  and: 
If it is decided that an Inter-State Commission be established, it should be given only the power to investigate and make recommendations on matters pertaining to Australian trade and commerce but requiring, however, that any action to implement those recommendations must be effectuated in, and by, the Australian Parliament. 
There is a concern amongst many people that we may give to this Commission powers which will enable it in effect to legislate, and this may be part of the powers that we should not give. Under the Constitution it is the duty of this Parliament to deem what is necessary for the execution and maintenance of these powers and we cannot pass up the consideration or let it be hurried past our eyes. 
It has been said that a power of arbitration which is given in the Bill and which is subject to the consent of the parties may be a highly desirable power. I think it would be. I think it might reduce a good deal of the disputes which occur if we allow a body which is well experienced and qualified to move into this field. I do not say for one moment that at this stage I feel that we are in a position to delineate those powers.  Senator Everett,  myself and others have had a good deal of opportunity in the year we have been in this place to see investigation by committees of this Parliament of powers contained in clauses which are hardly appreciated in the course of discussion in the Parliament. 
No. I hasten to assure  Senator Everett  that the committee he has in mind, which is burdened with something else at the present time, is not the one to which I have in mind sending this Bill; but I do say - 
-Yes, as  Senator Wright  points out, the committee procedures are most useful. It is most useful in a general way, apart from this fact, that there be a longer consideration because of the things that come out in discussions. The interpretations that are put on these provisions are often greatly different from first appearances. Although this is a body which, according to Deakin was to be the eyes and ears of the Constitution and while I see for it some valuable work which should be done, I want to ensure that proper time is given, that proper public consideration is given to it and that people have the opportunity to put before this Parliament all the considerations, whether they be wise or unwise, so that we can look at them and adjudicate on them in the final event. If we do this, if we take into account the changes that have occurred in the period for which this body has been out of existence and the bodies that exist in this Commonwealth today and if we produce a Bill with limited powers but powers that will be useful, then we will have done our job as administrators and as legislators. But if we pass this Bill in its present form and at the present time we will be passing the problems over to future generations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
Did the Australian Electoral Office computer on 18 May 1974 ascertain the aggregate votes for the House of Representatives election for Australia as a whole and also separate aggregates for each of the States; if so, will the Minister provide the seven tables showing the voting position for at least the following times, viz.: half-hourly tallies from 9.00 p.m. until the close of counting for the night. 
I rise to support the second reading of the Racial Discrimination Bill 1975 and also to support, at the same time, the amendments which the Liberal and National Country Parties will be proposing. I believe that together those 2 things will make this a Bill which can stand up in the community and of which we as a community can be proud. I do not intend to cover fields that already have been covered by other speakers in this debate, but I want to say in general terms that I am very much in support of the principles and the viewpoints which both  Senator Chaney  on a previous occasion and  Senator Davidson  tonight have outlined. I accord them my strong support. I believe the honourable senators have expressed the views which the joint parties are holding in respect of this legislation and which can rightly be claimed as valid justification for a Bill of this nature. 
We are, of course, discussing a Bill which involves primarily and firstly the ratification of an international convention relating to the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination. There has been some tendency to take the debate beyond that. The Bill concerns racial discrimination in the broad sense in which it is interpreted in Article 1 of the Convention, namely, distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based upon race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin. The Bill is not in the narrow sense a mere matter of race but relates to those matters of prejudice which we know follow together in those various contexts. We have seen 81 countries ratify or accede to the International Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimination. It is high time, to put it no further, that we in this country who signed the Convention on 13 October 1966 should proceed now to ratify it. Some of my colleagues have said that this is not perhaps the worst country in the world for racial discrimination, that this is certainly a country with its tradition of freedom that ought to be in the forefront of those that proclaim freedom from racial discrimination and that set a lead to other countries. 
I refer again to a salient document, which was referred to by  Senator Greenwood  in this debate, namely, a letter we all received from the Anglican Archbishop of Melbourne,  Dr Frank  Woods. I refer particularly to the latter part of that letter. After he commended to members of Parliament the adoption in principle of this Bill, he said: 
That there will be differences as to the manner of detailed implementation of the Convention is to be expected; indeed, it is to be welcomed so long as the differences are between individual groups or parties who share a common wish to give the values which are found in the Convention their best expression. I hope and pray that whatever differences arise are fairly and closely debated and that out of those discussions we shall have an Act which truly reflects the spirit of the Convention and is a real contribution to the better observance of Our Lord's commandment that we love one another. 
I suggest that our job is to find through debate and in the Committee stage the best possible method of implementing the Convention in this country. However, on these views there is difference in this chamber. When the subject was debated in the House of Representatives, there was a general unity of purpose on the part of members on both sides of the chamber and many were the illustrations of racial discrimination in this country. One cannot say that that has been the approach to the debate in this chamber. Because I stand here supporting the principles and views of this legislation, which the joint parties have adopted, I must refer to some of the remarks of my own colleagues on this side of the House because I do not believe they accord with the policies or with the principles which I espouse on this legislation. 
I refer first to the remarks made on the Bill by  Senator Sheil  some time ago in this debate. I regret to say that in my opinion the speech that was made on that occasion was nothing but a denigration of the Convention and the Bill and it left no possible way in which the Bill could, in the honourable senator's opinion, be amended so as to be satisfactory. He is, as all of us are, entitled to express his views. However, at the same time we have obligations, I believe, when we have taken part in the debate and in the deliberations that have produced the legislation or the view of the parties to this legislation. He said: 
Australia over recent years has adopted an immigration policy that has allowed the immigration into this country of blacks, whites, reds, yellows and browns. 
I strongly object to such expressions. They are a reflection on the general policy of immigration into this country for a number of years, and that policy has been administered by representatives from both sides of the chamber. The conclusion he draws is: 
In other words, we are importing a problem into this country that has not been solved by any other country. Because of these problems, once again created by governments, we are now faced with this Racial Discrimination Bill. In my opinion, if this Bill is implemented it will create more discrimination, not less. 
In other words, he takes the Bill as being totally unsatisfactory because it will in his opinion increase the discrimination that exists in this country. That is not my opinion. He continued by saying: 
We must not allow the misuse of the words 'the dignity and equality inherent in all human beings' as used by the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McClelland)  in his second reading speech to cloud the hard scientific evidence that stands before us for all to see that wc are different. 
I wonder what that means. Every one of us knows that we are all different. What is the significance of that difference? If the meaning of that is that some are inferior and some are to be regarded as such because of their colour or race, I reject that proposition. I do not think that anyone should derogate from the dignity and equality inherent in all human beings. 
I will now read in this context a statement which was made on the nature of race and racial differences by a group of scientists, composed of physical anthropologists and geneticists, convened by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation in June 1951. They set out what they consider to have been scientifically established concerning individual and group differences, as follows: 
In matters of race, the only characteristics which anthropologists have so far been able to use effectively as a basis for classification are physical (anatomical and physiological). 
Available scientific knowledge provides no basis for believing that the groups of mankind differ in their innate capacity for intellectual and emotional development. 
The statement goes on to say that within a single race there are vast differences between people and that social changes occur without any necessary connection with race. I put it to honourable senators that one should not seek to find differences of this kind and I reject the statement to the contrary that has been made.  Senator Sheil  continued by saying: 
Far from eliminating racial discrimination by making it illegal, the Bill will highlight the problems between the races and create an official race relations industry with a staff of dedicated anti-racists earning their living by making the most of every complaint in much the same way as does the Race Relations Board in the United Kingdom. 
This is an assumption that governments cannot exercise control, an assumption that people who will enter into these groups and jobs will be seeking to build up just a business, and will not be devoted to the sincere and honest discharge of their jobs. I do not see any reason for thinking this will be so. 
I do not think it has been proven in England and I do not think that we have the same Act as England has. The honourable senator has not established in any way that this is the practice or that it will be so here. He continued by saying: 
Any Bill which discriminates against Australians should be burnt. I hope that the amendments moved by the Opposition will lend some degree of sanity to the Bill. 
That does not represent the policy of the joint parties nor does it represent the views of many members of the Opposition in the 2 Houses. I trust that it will not be thought to be so. Many senators coming into the chamber, having taken part in the efforts of creating policies and determining attitudes to Bills, sometimes find that they must work with and vote for clauses and Bills which they do not believe are particularly satisfactory. However, the honourable senator apparently prefers his own independent road in this matter. I do not believe that his attitude properly represents the attitude of the Opposition in regard to the debate. 
I refer now to  Senator Wood  's contribution to the debate. In dealing with these contributions I have no doubt of the sincerity of the speakers, but I regret to say that I believe the ideas which have been expressed are perhaps suited to the nineteenth century but not to the modern and difficult world in which we live today.  Senator Wood  proceeded to tell us that racialism in this country is less prevalent than in the great majority of countries. I would have thought that that was an obvious statement but, at the same time, racial discrimination is here. Undoubtedly it exists in all kinds of direction with the Aborigines and the Australians, with the Jewish people and other Australians, with the people who come here as migrants and it follows, as  Senator Wood  said, that if one speaks English, there is no difficulty. That is one of the problems with Australians. We expect that people who come here should immediately speak English as well as we do. In fact, we expect them to speak it better than most of us do and we discriminate against them if they cannot speak English. 
When we go to other countries we get very annoyed if the people do not understand us. Unfortunately this is a habit to which Australians are somewhat prone. I say there is discrimination in this country against migrants not only in respect of words but also in respect of jobs. We expect them to come here and do the dirty work in this country while at the same time we do not make friendships with them and absorb them into the best parts of our community. I say to  Senator Wood  that the expectation that they must speak our language is one of the indications of our discrimination against these people.  Senator Wood  said that if we bring in this Bill it will put ideas into the minds of people with dangerous results. If he means by that that those people will realise that there is discrimination against them and that they have a remedy, I think it is a good thing that they shall have a remedy, that they shall not continue to live in that state but will be able to improve their position in life. 

 Senator Wood raised an argument about the Jewish people. He said that they had developed a very worthy country and are, as I believe, people to be respected for what they have done. When it was drawn to his attention that they still suffer discrimination in this country, he preferred to say that that sort of discrimination brings the best out of people and that if they dig deep into themselves when they are discriminated against that is the way they improve their morale. I do not know how one should regard the extremes of Hitler in that regard but I do not believe that discrimination is a desirable thing for the purpose of improving the morale of people. If we can wipe it out of this country I think we will have better relationships and the morale of everybody will improve. I do not accept that type of explanation and excuse for racial discrimination in this country. 

 Senator Bunton was the third senator to speak in regard to this matter. If I were dealing with 3 wise monkeys I suppose that he would be the one who could see no evil because he has had a fortunate life of innocence in which he has never accepted that there is racial discrimination in this country. He said: 'I am not prepared to admit that there is that pocket of racial discrimination in this country'. When  Senator Cavanagh  said that there were pockets of discrimination,  Senator Bunton  said that there was not even that. I think we all know, as has been established in this debate, that there are serious realms of discrimination. 
I suggest that  Senator Bunton  should ask the Myer family how they will get into the Melbourne Club. Let him ask Jewish people in any of our cities how they will get into a lot of the golf clubs. He will find that they cannot doit. 
The honourable senator has not read the Bill because the definition of racial discrimination in the Bill includes national discrimination and ethnic discrimination. These are matters of racial discrimination and are dealt with by this Bill. Of course they ought to be dealt with by this Bill. Consequently, in reply to  Senator Bunton  who said that he is not aware of blatant racial discrimination in this country, I put it to him that some of the worst forms of discrimination are those that are not even known or appreciated by people. They do not realise that someone has chosen someone else instead of them for a job on grounds of race. They do not realise that. It does not matter whether the discrimination is blatant or not. If it is there it is our duty to endeavour to stop it. 
I turn from the remarks, which I regret I have had to make, in relation to the remarks of my colleagues who I believe have not appreciated the seriousness of this problem. I want to turn to what the Parties have said in support of this Bill. In his speech on the last occasion when this Bill was before the Senate  Senator Chaney  referred in part to the platform of the Liberal Party and the joint policies of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party. I wish to read a part of the platform of the Liberal Party under the heading of 'Justice and Law Reform', where we are pledged to: 
Protect the civil liberties of the individual in society including the implementation of civil, political and social rights wherever applicable according to international conventions adopted by Australia, in fields of Commonwealth power or where the adoption of the convention has been approved by the States. 
This is clearly one of those international conventions by which we are obliged to implement legislation and should be glad to do so. It is obvious that the common law has never developed in such a way that it would eliminate racial discrimination. Some people, generally nonlawyers, assume that the common law is a useful device for all kinds of remedies. Yet the common law allowed slavery to continue and allowed child labour. It is often necessary to provide conventions and laws whereby these things are eliminated. This Bill is important in that regard. 
It continued for many centuries. 
The honourable senator realises that England depended on the slave trade for a lot of its profit. The honourable senator is quite right in suggesting that slavery in England was outlawed in due course, but, on the other hand, for some considerable time after that until there was legislation the English people, I regret to say, flourished because of the slave trade. Legislation was required to abolish slavery. 
That is not the question. The point I am making to the honourable senator- 
-I did indeed. I said that statute law was necessary to eliminate this blot throughout the world and probably it has not successfully done it yet. The existing rights and remedies are costly and difficult to deal with racial discrimination. The areas covered by this Bill, such as recognition of the law dealing with employment, access to public places, land and housing accommodation, the selling of goods  and even trade unions, need to be covered in this legislation. I think it is desirable that they should be covered. 
Features of the Bill have already been discussed by many speakers in this debate. But I still place at the high point of my argument the fact that we are acknowledging a convention and the effect that that will have on the community from an educational point of view. One does not expect laws to overcome socially ingrained prejudices overnight. But one does expect that, within a generation, people will obey those laws. One need only remember that Catholic emancipation in England was achieved by laws. People would have said: 'You cannot remove these prejudices'. But given a generation, the effect of the law and the effect of people's desires to obey the law, one finds that social ideas change and these prejudices disappear. In an educational way that is an important part of this Bill. The Bill provides prohibitions. More importantly, it provides for the Commissioner for Community Relations to do what I believe should be a limited job. I will come to that matter in a few moments. 
As other speakers have said, the Bill concentrates on conciliation first and the fact that people should have to undertake conciliation and then proceed to sue. I think our amendments will have some effect in highlighting that fact. I think the procedure includes no way of removing fortunately- nor does the Convention- that benign discrimination, that ability to assist people who are below the average in their standards of living or in their rights and privileges and whose standard may be brought up under the provisions of this Bill. This is carefully preserved in clause 8 of the Bill. As I have said, the Bill concentrates on the attempt to conciliate first and foremost. In respect of this matter I would like to read the words of the Director of the Ontario Human Rights Commission who explained what was done in relation to his body's conciliation approach to racial discrimination. He said: 
If the complained-of matter involves a housing matter, the respondent will be urged to act in good faith and offer the complainant housing; if it is a job, he might offer the individual immediate employment or assure him that, within a given period of time, employment will be forthcoming; if he has denied the complainant a haircut, he is asked to cut his hair; if he has denied resort accommodation, he will be required to offer it during the current or subsequent season. One of the greatest advantages of the conciliation procedure is that it encourages the specific performance of obligations, especially in relation to employment and housing, which apart from statutory powers the courts may be reluctant to enforce . . . 
I put to the Senate that it is extremely important, therefore, that the concentration should be first on that area of development. The various other parts of this Bill- the protection of legal rights and the education angles which have been mentioned already- are, I think, worthy and, as  Senator Davidson  pointed out, will have a more long range effect in this community. 
On the other hand, there are defects in this Bill that the Opposition has recognised. I want to concentrate briefly on just two of those matters with which I think it is absolutely essential to deal. One is the provisions in the Bill that allow the Commissioner of Race Relations not only to conciliate but also to proceed then to gather evidence by an unusual method and then to proceed to institute proceedings at law. It is the belief of the Opposition- I believe that it is absolutely sound- that to allow all those things to be done by one person would be inconsistent. It would be possible for the Commissioner if he were experiencing difficulty to say: 'If you do not like this, I am going to take action against you'. It would be possible for him, therefore, to enforce and not to use the real benefits of conciliation. It is for that reason that one of the proposed amendments of the Opposition is designed to divide that task, to let the Commissioner proceed with all speed and with all power to conciliation where possible and then, if that does not succeed, to allow for and to give proper legal aid to persons to enable them to proceed to enforce the rights they then have. So they have a certificate saying that they have tried conciliation, and then you proceed. If this were not so one might run the risk of inflaming the situation and making someone a martyr. By imposing criminal penalties one might make him embittered for life. I think that the concentration should be added to by making the Commissioner a separate person and body so that he can proceed without being divided and muddled in his views. 
In my opinion, the second main alteration that should be made to this Bill is the elimination of clause 28, which provides for a restriction on the dissemination of views that I, and I should think most other members of the Senate, would find objectionable. I take the view- it is not a view I have formed very quickly- that it is quite undesirable in this community to try to eliminate by force of law the expression of certain ideas. There are 3 quotations that I think we ought to bear in mind in this respect. One is the statement in the New Testament: 'Ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make ye free'. The second is Voltaire's statement: 'I disapprove of what you say but I will defend to death your right to say it'. The third is Milton's remark: 'Whoever knew the truth put to the worst in a free and open encounter?' We might have some doubts about the last. Sometimes the truth might appear to disappear but overall I believe it is important in this community to respect the right of people to make the disagreeable statement. I have long taken the view publicly that I think Communists ought to have the right to organise and the right to speak in this community. I take the same view of Nazis. If they do overt acts, that is a different matter, but if they only express their crazy views this society must be judged by its ability to withstand those views and to have them heard. The same applies even more so in the case of statements on racial discrimination. It does not matter whether the people who make their views known have twisted minds as long as they can express thenviews. We have to be resistant in this community. We must not try to drive them out by legislation. 
It is in that respect that the Convention is somewhat obscure because, although it does call upon nations to make punishable by law the offence of the dissemination of ideas based upon racial superiority or hatred, the Convention also says that each State Party shall prohibit and bring to an end, by all appropriate means including legislation as required by the circumstances, racial discrimination by all persons, groups or organisations. Obviously in this country it is not an appropriate means to deny the dissemination of ideas. Article V of the Convention provides that one of the things that must be taken into consideration is that everybody must be able to enjoy the right to freedom of opinion and expression. So we must preserve all of those things. For that reason I believe that clause 28 must be deleted from this Bill. 
Over the last few months I think all of us have received an extraordinary collection of material mostly campaigning against this Bill. A lot of documents- some of them quite anonymousexpress views in heated language. Some refer to the 'Race Relations Bill'- they do not even get the name of the Bill right- and urge not the amendment of the Bill but the removal of the Bill. One of the documents I have in front of me talks about a new tribe of racial officials, who will be racial police, being set up, who need not be members of the Public Service, or of Australian nationality. It goes on to say: 
Under the innocuous badge of banning racial discrimination the Labor Party has introduced the apparatus of the Police State, with its secret Police, empowered to engage in inquisitorial investigations, fines, imprisonment, arrest, damages and injunctions. 
What we must make sure is that there is nothing in the Bill which will justify any statements like that, that one will know the extremity of the expressions which are designed to cause fear. In another document which the National White Australia Policy League has sent to us all there is reference to the 'Stalinistic formula' in this Bill. The document says: 
It is cooked up ostensibly to protect Aborigines and other ethnic groups from so-called ' race hatred '. 
I emphasise the words 'so-called race hatred'. The document goes on to talk about this inquisition and says: 
By its policy of seeking deliberately through immigration to undermine the national character, the Government has succeeded in causing an understandable disquiet and what it calls 'racism'- but what is merely legitimate criticism. 
One can see in this the high desire of organisations like that to protect themselves and, of course, they must be protected in speaking but not in putting into practice those types of attitudes. In another publication 'Intelligence Survey ' one finds remarks like this: 
. one remarks that this ' Racial Discrimination Bill ' was drawn up in its present form largely by a man of southern European origins and with a southern European temperament assisted, so he said, by a woman of southern European origins who was reared in eastern Asia and the Philippines . . . 
I am referring, of course, to the use of the expression 'southern European', which is apparently to be seen in itself as a denigration, and I say that that is more evidence- I will not join in the argument- of the desire to promote racial disharmony in this country. The last of these objectionable arguments to which I wish to refer is the document received from the Immigration Restriction Council which has accused us of merely following the Party line of seeking the migrant vote. To illustrate the obscenity of the argument I read from the document: 
This Bill will place a restriction on one of our basic freedoms- the freedom of choice. It is natural to discriminate . . . 
Further on in the document the Council says: 
People cannot be forced to accept aliens who endanger their way of life by legislative force . . . 
Migrant rackets could conceivably increase as it would be difficult to reveal without the risk of prosecution under the Bill. 
We know that the rate of crime among migrants in our community is remarkably low. I have referred in this House only to extracts from those documents to show that the campaign against this Bill is a campaign not to reform it, not to improve it- that is the objective of the .Oppositionbut to destroy it because those documents and the telegrams and other papers that have been received contain the words 'Destroy the Bill'. I trust that this Parliament will see the defeat of that sort of campaign by reforming the Bill in such a way that it will be able to stand beyond challenge. I believe that with that, the Bill will be successful and will be valuable to our community. Therefore, with those amendments in mind, I warmly support the Bill. 
I refer the Minister representing the Attorney-General to the Government's proposal to introduce a Freedom of Information Bill along the lines of the United States Freedom of Information Act. Early in 1973 the former Attorney-General imported American experts to assist in drafting the Bill and in September 1974 he issued a report of an interdepartmental committee proposing the emasculation of the rights proposed under the Bill. Since then nothing has been heard publicly of the proposal. Can the Minister tell the Senate what has happened to this Bill. Has there been a further retreat from open government? 
It seems to me that to refer to another clause is not a satisfactory way to deal with this matter. My recollection is that the 'laws of Australia' are referred to in a number of other Bills and that phrase might well be interpreted as meaning just the laws passed by the Federal Parliament of Australia. If the clause contained the words 'laws in Australia' I suppose it would be clear and would cover other bodies which make laws. I should have thought that the natural interpretation of the words 'laws of Australia' tends to exclude the States and the Territories when obviously this amendment makes the matter clear beyond doubt. 
I would like very briefly to say something about the 2 points which  Senator Greenwood  raised. The first one was in relation to clause 7 of the Bill.  Senator Greenwood  was wondering whether this ratification would stand up under the external affairs power of the Commonwealth. I express my view that I think it should stand up. It seems to me to be an obvious matter involving Australia's external affairs, whereas many of the other matters raised in the debate were concerned with more remote arrangements which might be made between countries and which might not end up in the same situation. I certainly have great confidence that that particular clause will be sustained. 
The second point raised by  Senator Greenwood  is a point which I first raised partially last night. There does appear to be in my mind an internal inconsistency in Articles 4 and 5 of the International Convention. Though that be so, of course, it is to my mind but a minor aspect of the whole Convention but one in relation to which I think we can claim quite justifiably that we could not comply with the declaration of offences in the manner in which Article 4 (a) requires in respect of dissemination of ideas because, to quote Article 2, this would not be appropriate means which a State would be required to pursue in taking action under the Convention. 
The other aspect to which  Senator Greenwood  referred was the right to freedom of expression of opinion and peaceful assembly and association in Article 5. We must maintain those things. If we are subjected at some time, as we probably will be, to some view from overseas that we should take some action and stop the dissemination of ideas, I think that we can rely upon what is a reasonable interpretation of the Convention and make consistent what appears at first sight to be internally inconsistent. I agree with  Senator James  McClelland when he said that we have been criticised in the past; that we will be criticised in the future; and that the adoption of this Convention is not going to make any great difference in that regard. 
I suggest that by leaving this clause in the Bill we would be taking a great risk with the system of law we know. Different examples can be produced from those used by  Senator James  McClelland. Many situations could arise in which people would, at their own duty and at their own peril, have to disprove their guilt. Whether or not criminal penalties are provided very substantial penalties of a financial nature would be involved in what is done. I suggest that time will tell, if the Opposition's amendment is carried, whether or not it is adequate, but at the present time to reverse the onus and to allow this clause to remain in the Bill would be a breach of the liberty which we have understood and enjoyed for many centuries. 
I draw the attention of the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McClelland)  to the fact that part of the new clause which was inserted tonight, and which was not in the Bill when it was presented to us, makes it unlawful for a person to assist or promote, whether by financial assistance or otherwise, the doing of such an act. I believe that will expand the situation whereby people who are promoting, but quietly promoting, the activities of their servants will probably be brought to book. I suggest to the Minister that that is an additional protection to ensure that the prosecutions will succeed. If the prosecutions do not succeed and we have to try something else, of course we can always amend the Act, but at present I suggest there is no evidence to say that it is desirable to reverse this onus. 
-Will the Minister representing the Attorney-General assure the Senate that the proposed legislation concerning the statutory establishment of the Australian Legal Aid Office and the commission to coordinate legal aid activities throughout Australia will be introduced or made available before the end of this session so that it will be available throughout the recess for scrutiny by and consultation with all persons and bodies involved in this area? 
I am of the opinion that all these amendments are insignificantin most cases actually desirable amendmentsand that none in any case ought to be adopted so as to delay the implementation of this legislation. So far as this amendment is concerned I have listened to  Senator Wright's  argument. The plain fact of the matter is that this was a supplementary alteration which neither the Senate Committee nor the Senate noted, and which was overlooked. The House of Representatives has now made this amendment because it is obviously consistent with clause 48, which has been much debated- that the Senate's original recommendation that what should be taken into account was the establishment of the 12-month separation up to the date of the filing of proceedings and that it should not be a matter of just proving it up to the date of hearing. That provision was inserted by clause 48 on the Senate Committee's recommendation and we should logically have followed it through to provide for the position where there are breaks in the period of separation provided for in clause 50. All the House of Representatives is doing is to provide consistency where there was some inconsistency before. 
Concerning the point that  Senator Wright  makes that a period of resumption of cohabition can occur after the filing and up to the date of hearing, I agree that is so. It is no doubt going to be possible for Courts to deal with that matter. It will come before the court because the court has to be satisfied under clause 48 (3) that there is not a reasonable likelihood of cohabition being resumed. If in fact there is a resumption of cohabition in that latter period, obviously that has weight when this question is considered and will be taken into account by the court. But as for this being a matter in which the inconsistency should be retained, I say it should not be retained and that we should agree here with the House of Representatives amendment and with other amendments to ensure that the Bill comes into force. 
-That is not affected. That aspect is certainly considered and dealt with in the Bill because clause 1 14, with provision for injunctions and orders, is designed to cover the hardship that a woman may suffer during the period before a divorce. It is not a divorce she wants; it is those other remedies in that period, and that has long since been covered in the Bill. 
 I just want to make a small point in regard to amendment No. 4 because this has been the subject of considerable  telegramming and messages to a number of honourable senators, lt has been thought by many that it would make some dramatic change in the conditions whereby matters are to be taken into account when maintenance is considered under clause 75. In my opinion, the clause certainly has some awkwardness of understanding because it is difficult to understand how one can take into account the conditions of a wife in determining maintenance after the divorce. While that Will probably cause some judges some puzzling, on the other hand, what this clause does in effect is to provide for the consideration of the position of a woman who wants to remain a wife and mother without resuming work, something that on the question of maintenance the court has to consider. It takes out of the clause what the Senate put into the Bill, clause 75 (2) (n), which provided that any fact or circumstance which on the justice of the case required to be considered was the final consideration under this clause. 
In effect it has taken these considerations and enumerated them with about a dozen or 14 other matters. Of course, there is the contrary position of a husband who may have reasons why justice would not require a court to make an order and that can be considered at the same time. So I think that in reality it ought to be said that this change Will have very little effect in practice. It was desired by the House of Representatives and I consider it is not desirable to oppose it. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Amendment No. 8. 
-With respect to  Senator James  McClelland, I think it is still necessary to make it clear beyond doubt that the amendment which has come to us from the House of Representatives is an amendment to delete 13 words that are surplusage and are being deleted because they do not relate to something that is any longer in the Bill. That is the only amendment. It is not an amendment from the House of Representatives that deals with the policy of clause 121 at all. That matter has been debated here and in the House of Representatives. This is an attempt by  Senator Wright  to redebate the policy of that section. I submit that all that is before the Chair is the words which are surplusage and the question of whether they are or are not surplusage. They cannot be brought into an attack on the whole clause. 
It is very difficult when dealing with what is in a person's mind to determine what is a reason. Mostly the reason will be the motivating factors that occur to that person. There always will be other factors of a long standing nature such as prejudice, misunderstanding or a lack of knowledge. There may be many other things that go to make up the reasons which finally decide why something is done. I think the wording in the present Bill is far too dangerous. To require a reason but one which need not be in any way a dominant reason is too strong a requirement altogether. I have some sympathy for the Government's proposition that it should be a substantial reason but I suppose it could be said also that in that case there is a danger. There may be a number of substantial reasons but they are far from being dominant. 
I think there is good cause at this stage for the legislation to require it to be the dominant reason. If it is found that people get around this by subterfuge and the Act does not work as well, this would be a matter for reconsideration. I think it is wise to see whether the Opposition's amendment, which is the least restrictive of liberty, would be the cause in which it is done and I support the Opposition's amendment. 
I agree with what  Senator Greenwood  has said in regard to this clause but there are one or two other matters I want to add in supporting the Opposition 's proposal that this provision should not be in the Bill at this stage. If after examination over the years we find that some other method is required, I hope it will not require this type of inquisition. This is, of course, a fishing expedition because it is not confined to the calling of a person who is alleged to have committed some offence. It refers to any person. A person can be called to give evidence on the various matters which the Commissioner sees fit and thinks might be useful. This includes any person whom he thinks is capable of giving evidence or producing documents in relation to any matter. Therefore, the power is extremely wide. 
Apart from that, it also attacks the basis of professional privilege. So far as I can see, questions would be asked of a person- it might be a doctor, the doctor of the person against whom claims are made- and that person, so far as I can see, is not entitled to refuse to answer on the basis of professional privilege. This could apply to medical men, to lawyers and so on. The only exclusion found in sub-clause 9 is that the person is not excused from answering a question or producing a document in pursuance to this section on the ground that the answer to the question or the document may tend to incriminate him. The onus is turned around. By this means answers which incriminate are obtained from the person who is to be pursued. I think it is undesirable that there should be this reversal of the onus. On these additional grounds I also support the deletion of the clause. 
I support the amendment. All I desire to do is to draw attention to the difference between the amendment and the Government's proposed amendment. It is a little difficult at first to work out the difference. The difference is to be found in clauses (3) and (4) of the Opposition's amendment. I suggest to the Committee that the Opposition's amendment is superior. Our proposed sub-clause (3) requires the certificate to be given to the aggrieved person, whereas the Government's proposed amendment provides that the certificate must be lodged with the court. I think there is little difference in that, but I think it is important that the person should have the certificate before he proceeds to take legal action. I think the Government's proposal is defective compared with the Opposition's amendment, because the Government's proposal is that the certificate must state that a conference has been called, not that it has been presided over. I think it is important that a conference should actually have been held before proceedings are instituted. Moreover, the Opposition's amendment provides that the certificate must state that the Commissioner, a conciliation committee or an officer or employee of the Commission has presided at the conference and that it has been directed by the Commissioner. The amendment spells out the persons who may preside at a conference, all under the aegis of the Commissioner. I would suggest that overall the proposal in this unusual situation where there is a genuine desire to have a conference which will be effective should be spelt out in the way in which the Opposition's amendment spells it out. 
The Government's proposed amendment does not include sub-clause (4) of the Opposition's amendment. I think that is a serious omission. It is important that if full use of the conference is to be made there should not be hanging over it the doubt that any statement which is made can be used against a person. If there is a genuine interest in conciliation, it must be free and open, not with holds barred. My recollection is that in the Family Law Bill we have provided the same general provision that conversations which take place at conferences in the presence of welfare officers should not be used in subsequent legal proceedings. That is highly desirable in that Bill. It is highly desirable in this Bill. For those reasons I suggest the Opposition 's amendment is superior. 
-Perhaps it might also be said in answer to the point raised by  Senator Wright  that clause 26(1) refers to the acts which are declared unlawful by reason of Part II. It relates to all the various provisions in clauses 13, 14, 15 and 16. Where an action arises from the particular causes provided in those clauses, claims for loss of dignity, injury to feelings and so on are claimable in those proceedings. Under clause 26(1) they are linked up with the offences provided in the earlier clauses of the Bill. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 27 (Unlawful acts not offences unless expressly so provided ). 
-There are one or two matters to which I wish to refer specifically in relation to clause 28. 1 have stated in general terms in my speech during the second reading debate my attitude in relation to this matter; it is the same as that expressed by those honourable senators who have already spoken on the general principle. It has to be noted that in this clause there is no statement as to the effect of the words. I think this is a development of the point made by  Senator Chaney,  but it is worth noting. There is no reference at all in the clause as to what might be the effect of the words and whether that might be important or significant. It merely states that the use of the words by publication or broadcast is the offence. 
It is significant that there was some discussion on this clause and clause 29, and I think that reference should be made to it. It appeared in an article written by  Mr Gareth  Evans who has done a great deal of work on this Bill and who was an adviser on it to the Government. I think it was as a result of his article that one small alteration was made to the Bill, namely, the putting of the intent provision into clause 28. I think that the Government has failed altogether to consider the conclusions to which  Mr Evans  came in regard to these 2 clauses. In his article he said: 
The provisions penalising these offences are entirely separate in character from the anti-discrimination provisions of Part II of the Bill, and are enforced by separate machinery. Their inclusion in the Bill is likely to create, as it has in Britain, an ineradicable impression in the public mind that the whole Bill is concerned with the criminal courts, fines and imprisonment; the crucial element in the whole exercise, the tackling of racial discrimination by informal conciliation, may become de-emphasised; and public sympathy may tend to be directed more towards the discriminator, believed to be likely to receive harsh penalties, than his victim. 
I suggest that the Government should have read through the whole of that section of his writings. If it had done so I think it would have concluded that this clause should go from the Bill, not only for the reasons of principle that have been advanced but also because it detracts from the purpose of the Bill and the direction in which the Bill is going. 
There is one other matter in regard to this clause. The Government has introduced the idea of intent into this clause and, if I remember rightly, the previous Bill did not contain that provision. Previously it was more of a broad prohibition. In introducing that provision the Government appears to go away from the Convention, because the Convention, as was mentioned last evening, does contain a rather blunt prohibition on allowing the dissemination of ideas. Of course, it contains no restriction in regard to intent. I have maintained that we must read this Convention in the line and in the light of our appropriate means, because we are obliged to use only appropriate means, and we are required under the Convention to preserve the right of freedom of expression of opinion. The Government's clause does not even accord with the literal words of the Convention. I believe we should not endeavour in any way to include this type of proposition in the Bill. 
I should like to speak very briefly to this amendment and to support it. It is in no way a derogation of the duties which are performed. In the limited opportunity I have had I have certainly found the Parliamentary Draftsmen very helpful. On the other hand, I think there is good argument for this amendment. One thing is clear. The Attorney-General,  Mr Enderby,  replied to this proposal on 14 May. It is recorded in Hansard. I felt it was an extremely weak reply. All that he could say in relation to providing this service for backbench members of Parliament on both sides of the House was that the Government recognised that there are problems in the area and it hoped to put them right. That, of course, gave no satisfaction and gives no undertaking of how the problem is to be put right. He made the further argument that there are difficulties of which we are aware. He said, for example, that the question of confidentiality occasionally poses a possible problem. 
I have rarely heard so weak an argument against the proposal. So far as confidentiality is concerned, I would think that if it were provided that Counsel had first priority, and that is all this amendment requires, to look after the drafting problems of backbench members he would know his obligations and the question of confidentiality would not occur. So far no reason has been shown why this amendment should not be adopted. It would be a most valuable thing for the use of all backbench members of Parliament. I hope it will be adopted. 
As an individual senator I join the Minister for Manufacturing Industry,  Senator James  McClelland, in those remarks. I thank him for the remarks he made about me. I think that we all take some pride in the fact that this Senate has put together a Bill which I think will be one of the momentous social Bills in the history of this Parliament.  Mr Justice  Murphy can no doubt take great credit and great pride in his contribution, by his persistence, by his preparedness to listen to representations and by his handling of the Bill. I say to the Minister that the members of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs greatly appreciate the fine work which he did. I am sure I speak on their behalf when I say that is a fine achievement in which I know he can take pride. So far as this Bill is concerned, I believe a lot still has to be done. It has to have good appointments. It has to have concentration on the State courts, which is an obligation on the Government. I do not propose to debate any of those issues. I merely say that I believe that this is an important day and I join with the Minister in congratulating all those who were associated with the making of this Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) How many individual computer network systems does the Government now have between two or more capital, or other Australian cities, or centres. 
What is the nature and purpose of the information stored in each computer network system. 
By which Department is each computer network system funded and maintained. 
What guarantees do citizens have that the information concerning their personal lives and stored in these systems is accurate. 
What avenues are available to citizens to contest the accuracy of the information stored when they believe such information to be inaccurate. 
When, and in what circumstances, can citizens examine the information kept. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security aware of the widespread confusion amongst the Austraiian public regarding the benefits available under the Medibank scheme? Is he aware that chemists and others having constant dealings with the public are expressing grave concern at the lack of sensible, accurate material and advice? In particular, is he aware of the common belief of many Australians that Medibank will cover the cost of treatment in intensive care wards and will enable patients in public wards to consult the doctor of their choice at no extra cost? What is the Minister doing to remove these misconceptions? 
-I have much pleasure in joining with the other speakers in support of the motion for the second reading of this Bill. I trust that with the addition of proposed amendments to the Bill, which remain at this stage a little obscure but which I am sure are intended on all sides to strengthen the Bill, it will achieve a great deal in bringing into some sort of order administrative law in this community. I do not propose to go over ground which has already been covered by other speakers, but it is clear to all of us that the work which has been done by committees such as the Kerr Committee and the Bland Committee, which produced 2 reports, and what has been advocated by people on both sides of politics for a number of years, sometimes against an inertia and objection which were not always well founded, has meant at last some achievement. We recognise that we have reached a stage in this community at which there are, as  Senator Everett  pointed out, a great number of extra discretions that are given to Ministers and officials and that government has moved into many fields of activity in which hitherto it did not have any interest. Because of this fact alone we have a need for an administrative law which is not just ramshackle, as I think we could properly describe the present state of the law in this country, but one which is logical and consistent and, above all, is known by the people in this community. 
I wish to make one point in this general area which has already been canvassed by other speakers. There is a great deal of value in the one system of appeals provided for individuals, no matter what the discretion may be. At present in Australia there are some discretions against which there is no appeal. Against some discretions there is an appeal to a Minister or to some other person. Against other discretions there is an appeal to a committee or to a court. Therefore it is desirable that individuals should have some easy way of knowing that they have rights and are not lost in the obscurity of these varying provisions. The Liberal Party of Australia and the National Country Party of Australia have for some years advocated and have taken, as has been pointed out by speakers, some practical part in the development of this administrative law. In our document 'The Way Ahead 'we state: 
A Liberal-Country Party Government will establish an ombudsman. 
Additionally it will take all necessary steps to provide an effective means of appeal and redress from administrative decisions of officials and tribunals to ensure that citizens have direct and effective protection against bureaucraticdecisions. 
Naturally we welcome the Bill and the Ombudsman Bill which has really to be dovetailed with this Bill. This Bill will provide in a formal sense, and the Ombudsman Bill in a more informal sense, the ability to control and redirect administrative decisions that go wrong. 
I draw the attention of the Senate to one area of investigation some years ago. In Victoria the Statute Law Revision Committee investigated thoroughly the position with regard to appeals from administrative decisions. I think that in this matter the situation in Victoria is typical of the situation in the other States and in the Commonwealth. That Committee found a whole mass of areas in which all kinds of different procedures took place and in which all kinds of committees operated. Ultimately it recommended an administrative body that would bring these things into co-ordination, and recommended also the appointment of an ombudsman. I have some interest in that matter because I gave some evidence before the Committee. I wish to read out one of its recommendations which I think highlights the inadequacies of existing law so far as administrative appeals are concerned. At page 7 of the report of that Committee the following statement appears: 
In terms of the individual seeking a just solution to his problem, the ramifications of judicial review by these methods are at best frustrating. The salient feature of interest to him in these proceedings- the legality of the administrative act or decision at issue- appears to be subordinate to seemingly endless legal argument as to the propriety of the method of review employed. Such exchanges will involve him in substantial costs and may not succeed in supplying him with a firm solution to his problem. In any case, a judicial consideration of the lawfulness of an administrative act or decision may not always satisfy his real need- a means of reviewing the fairness, adequacy, or impartiality of such an act or decision. Challenges by way of the Prerogative Writs often fall short of a satisfactory appeal because they are of limited application. A judicial review by this means cannot result in findings of fact being upset so long as there has been no misconduct, bias or wrongful application of law by the tribunal whose decision it is sought to impugn. 
That statement further strengthens the point made by  Senator Everett-  that is, that appeals should be on the merits of the case, not on whether the tribunal went beyond its strict law or went beyond its proper procedure. The appeals should be on the merits. That is what people want from a tribunal. That is what they will expect from the type of tribunal which we are setting up in this Bill. 
Some amendments to the Bill which is before us have been mentioned. There is some obscurity here, but I think it can be said that the amendments seek to do 3 things. The first is to supply a jurisdiction to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. The Bill as it stands, good as it is, does not give that initial jurisdiction. There is no way of indicating to the public whether it is to be a small or a large body or whether it will have a lot of work to do or not. But we have the valuable help of the report of the Bland Committee which set out in the schedules at the back of its report case after case where there were discretions that needed a proper form of appeal. In its report the Committee set out what was an appropriate form of appeal and whether it should go to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal or not. What the Opposition has done in its amendments in this area is to adopt those schedules and to say that, prima facie, these, being the ones that have been considered by the Bland Committee, ought to be adopted. On a quick perusal, the Government's amendments appear to have fallen short, very substantially, of those schedules. 
It may be, as was suggested in the House of Representatives, that there are some areas in which the Bland Committee's recommendations are no longer applicable because the law has been changed or the Act has been repealed. In those circumstances one can understand why those recommendations should be deleted. But before this debate is concluded and before the amendments are considered, I think that we will want to know whether or not there is a number of other areas, in addition to those covered by the Government's proposals, in which initial jurisdiction can be given to this Administrative Appeals Tribunal so that we will know how substantial will be the work of the Tribunal and so that people can start to realise that these are areas within the Tribunal's jurisdiction. After all, we must bear in mind that the Kerr and Bland reports took nearly 5 years to come to fruition. I believe that the effort should be made- it should be possible to do it now- to determine which of the existing laws should provide for an appeal to this Tribunal. One would hope that when this Bill is passed a fairly substantial jurisdiction will be given to this Tribunal. 
There is a second series of amendments. There will be amendments from the Government and from the Opposition, and at this stage I desire to refer to them in a general sense. The amendments vary in detail, but it is clear that in both cases the proposal is to create a new body, the Administrative Review Council, to do a very desirable and continuing job, namely, to watch and see how this Act operates, how the Ombudsman Act operates, what areas are covered and what areas are not sufficiently covered, and to consider the procedures that are adopted by the new tribunals acting under the Act. The membership of the Administrative Review Council will include a  president,  the Australian Ombudsman and the  chairman  of the Australian Law Reform Commission. I think that they will be excellent people to judge the operation of this new Act over a period of years. So whatever form the amendment takes, I think that this will be a substantial improvement to the Bill. 
The third matter to which I desire to refer and which concerns me somewhat- it may not be covered by the amendments- relates to the question of confidentiality under this Bill. Under the clauses of the Bill there are substantial matters that will not be investigated by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. I refer to clauses 28 and 36 of the Bill. Under clause 28 we are saying to people: 'You are entitled to know the reasons why a discretion was exercised unfavourable to you. You have an entitlement to the reasons '. But an exception is written into that clause. 
The exception is that the Minister may certify that it is contrary to the public interest to disclose the contents of a statement, and 3 reasons are given. The first is that such disclosure might prejudice the security, defence or international relations of Australia. I can understand and appreciate that. The second reason is that it might involve the disclosure of deliberations or decisions of the Cabinet or of a Committee of the Cabinet. I can understand that, although I think sometimes that casts the net so wide that it might restrict, to some extent, the ability of the Tribunal to operate effectively. The third reason refers to any other reason specified in the certificate. That provision is to be attacked in one of the Opposition's amendments. I hope that the provision will be deleted because it gives to a Minister a great power to specify reasons which he thinks make it contrary to the public interest to disclose the contents of a document, but it may be very much in the public interest to disclose the contents of a document. 
A similar situation arises in clause 36. Clause 36 deals with the material which, in the appeal to the Tribunal, must be produced by the Minister. The same catalogue of exceptions is available. The difference is that in this Bill, when one comes to the question of 'any other reason specified in the certificate', one finds that sub-clause (3) of clause 36, in part, states:   . . the Tribunal shall consider whether the information or the contents of the document should be disclosed to the parties to the proceeding and, if it considers that the information or the contents of the document should be so disclosed, it shall make the information available to the parties or permit the parties to inspect the document, as the case may be. 
I am not satisfied that these provisions go far enough. 
When one considers the report of the Bland Committee one realises that when it was reporting it was very concerned about the question of whether there would be sufficient disclosure. On page 32 of the report, which I will not read, the Bland Committee sets out its concern about the amount of confidentiality that is allowed to the Minister. I do not believe that in his second reading speech the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McClelland)  adverted sufficiently to this problem. When referring to the question of confidential material he said: 
In such a case, the statement of reasons is required to be lodged with the Tribunal itself. The Attorney-General is examining the recommendations of the Bland Committee that there should be a general requirement for reasons to be given for decisions made under powers conferred by statute. 
I do not believe that sufficient understanding and appreciation have been given to the rather sweeping rights which are allowed to a Minister. 
I conclude this observation by referring to a very thoughtful speech that was made by  Dr Jenkins,  a Government supporter, in the other place. He is reported at page 2284 of Hansard of 14 May 1975 as saying: 
Another problem is that, although the Bill tries to give an applicant access to as much information as possible, a Minister may, by certifying that the disclosure of the contents of a statement of reasons for decisions would be contrary to the public interest, effectively block access by the applicant to the reasons for that decision. This has always been a grey area not only in the legal field but also in the parliamentary field. I will not examine the proposition in depth but will merely express my uneasy feelings and concern about it. I do however recognise that the Bill is quite helpful to the Tribunal itself in the case of such documents as dealt with in clause 36. It seems to me that there is an evenhanded approach here. 
He referred to a number of cases which are of a different nature, going beyond this provision. Together with  Dr Jenkins,  I express the concern that too much scope is given to a Minister to enable him to avoid making material available. In my opinion, this Bill is in no way a slur on the Public Service of this community. It is in no way a derogation. It is something which will open up for consideration the opportunities which an individual in this community ought to have. When the legislation dealing with the Ombudsman and the Administrative Appeals Tribunal is passed, an individual will be given ready access to appeal. He will not be bound by mere matters of law; justice will prevail. I believe that with some amendments this Bill will serve very mightily to improve the administrative law of Australia. 
Debate interrupted. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Australian Government recently negotiated a loan from sources in the United States of 
America under which $100m is to be borrowed? Is it proposed that $90m of that $100m will be paid to the Australian Industry Development Corporation? If so, for what purposes and under what conditions is the sum of $90m to be used or applied by the AIDC? 
I think the objection of Opposition members to the reference to organisations which have no statutory authority is much more widespread than would be covered by any suggestion of antipathy. It may well be that in some legislation that has passed the Senate we have nodded at times when we should have observed something of this nature, but I suggest that in the form in which it is now proposed it will adequately cover the provisions of legal aid for persons who need it, and that what we should not do in this Bill is create what appears to be legislative form for a body which is not properly formed and which has not been scrutinised by this Parliament. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 59 agreed to. 
Proposed Schedule 

 Senator JAMES McCLELLAND (New 
South Wales- Minister for Manufacturing Industry) (4.54)- I move: 
That after clause 59 the following schedule  be  inserted: 
Schedule 
Part I 
ADMINISTRATIVE DISCRETIONS VESTED BY STATUTES AND REGULATIONS IN MINISTERS, OFFICIALS AND STATUTORY AUTHORITIES HITHERTO SUBJECT TO REVIEW BY THE COURTS 
Australian Capital Territory Taxation (Administration) Act 
Section 2 1 -President sitting alone. 
Broadcastng and Television Act 
Section 87a- President sitting alone. 
Customs Act 
Section 1 83c- President sitting alone. 
Life Insurance Act 
Section 40- President sitting alone. 
Section 47- President sitting alone. 
Section 52- President sitting alone. 
Section 58- President sitting alone. 
National Health Act 
Section 37- President sitting alone. 
Section 80. 
Section 97- President sitting alone. 
Post and Telegraph Act 
Section 29. 
Section 43. 
Sales Tax Procedure Act 
Section 12a. 
Superannuation Act 
Section 141. 
Tradesmen's Rights Regulation Act 
Section 44- President sitting alone. 
Part II 
ADMINISTRATIVE DISCRETIONS VESTED BY STATUTES AND REGULATIONS IN MINISTERS, OFFICIALS AND STATUTORY AUTHORITIES HITHERTO SUBJECT TO REVIEW BY OTHER THAN THE COURTS 
Commerce (Trade Descriptions) Act 
Section 7. 
Section 10. 
Section 1 1. 
Section 13. 
Copyright Act 
Section 135. 
Customs Act 
Section 119. 
Customs (Import Licensing) Regulations 
Regulation 18. 
Marriage Act 
Section 34- President sitting alone. The present provision for review by the Attorney-General is dispensed with. 
Migration Act 
Section 14- President sitting alone. 
Navigation Act 
Section 361. 
Patents Attorneys Regulations 
Regulation 29- President sitting alone. The present provision for review by the Attorney-General is dispensed with. 
Tradesmen's Rights Regulation Act 
Section 44- President sitting alone. 
Part III 
ADMINISTRATIVE DISCRETIONS UNDER STATUTES AND REGULATIONS HITHERTO WITHOUT ANY PROVISION FOR REVIEW 
Air Navigation Regulations 
Regulation 68. 
Regulation 84. 
Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act 
Section 6. 
Section 8. 
Section 1 1 -President sitting alone. 
Book Bounty Act 
Section 4. 
Section 1 1- President sitting alone. 
Broadcasting and Television Act 
Section 1 19- President sitting alone. 
Cellulose Acetate Flake Bounty Act 
Section 9. 
Section 10- President sitting alone. 
Coal Excise Act 
Section 12. 
Citizenship Act 
Section 12. 
Section 15. 
Section 21. 
Section 23. 
Regulation 23- President sitting alone. 
Customs Act 
Section 35A. 
Section 78- President sitting alone. 
Section 99. 
Section 100. 
Section 126. 
Section 149. 
Section 151- An appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, except as to specifications by and determinations of the Minister notified in the Gazette. 
Section 15 1 a. 
Section 154. 
Section 155. 
Section 157- An appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, except as to determinations of the Minister notified in the Gazette. 
Section 158- An appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, which shall extend to the Minister's belief. 
Section 160- An appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal whose functions shall be recommendatory only. 
Section 161. 
Section 163. 
Section 164b- An appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal whose functions shall be recommendatory only. 
Section 1 83 a- President sitting alone. 
Section 206. 
Regulation 132. 
Section 133- An appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal whose functions shall be recommendatory only. 
Customs (Import Licensing) Regulations 
Regulation 1 1. 
Regulation 15. 
Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations 
Regulation 10a. 
Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations 
Regulation 5. 
Customs Tariff Act 
Section 7- An appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal whose functions shall be recommendatory only. 
Section 8-An appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal whose functions shall be recommendatory only. 
Section 30- An appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal whose functions shall be recommendatory only. 
Section 3 1- An appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal whose functions shall be recommendatory only. 
Distillation Act 
Section 20. 
Section 24. 
Section 27. 
Section 44. 
Section 50. 
Section 5 1 . 
Regulation 107. 
Excise Act 
Section 5a. 
Section 26. 
Section 28. 
Section 34. 
Section 60. 
Section 62. 
Section 97. 
Section 105. 
Regulations  75a, 75ab, 75b, 75c, 75d, 75e  and  75h. 
Regulations 76, 77, 78, 78a and 78b. 
Regulation 85-An appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal whose functions shall be recommendatory only. Gold Mining Industry Assistance Act 
Section 8. 
Section 10. 
Section 1 1. 
Sections 12, 13 and 14. 
Home Savings Grant Act 
Section 4b- President sitting alone. 
Income Tax Assessment Act 
Section 25 1j- President sitting alone. 
Life Insurance Act 
Section 19. 
Section 23a. 
Section 33. 
Metal Working Machine Tools Bounty Act 
Section 5. 
Section 6. 
Section 9. 
Section 12- President sitting alone. 
Migration Act 
Section 12. 
Section 13. 
Section 48- President sitting alone. 
Narcotic Drugs Act 
Section 9. 
Section 10. 
Section 1 1. 
New Zealand Re-exports Act 
Section 3. 
Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Act 
Section 5, 6,11, 13. 
Section 16- President sitting alone. 
Passports Act 
Section 7. 
Section 8. 
Section 9. 
Regulation 7. 
Regulations 9 and 10. 
Regulation 1 1. 
Regulation 12- An appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal but only in relation to re-entry visas for residents. 
Patents Act 
Part XV- President sitting alone. 
Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Act 
Section 7. 
Section 10. 
Section 1 3- President sitting alone. 
Post and Telegraph Act 
Sections 57 and 58. 
Postal Regulations 
Regulation 167. 
Regulation 2 1 8. 
Radio-Telephone Exchange Service Regulations 
Regulation 43. 
Regulation 51. 
Spirits Act 
Section 1 1 . 
Section 12. 
Section 20. 
Wireless Telegraphy Regulations 
Part II. 
Part III. 
Part IV 
ADMINISTRATIVE DISCRETIONS HITHERTO VESTED BY A.C.T. ORDINANCES IN MINISTERS, OFFICIALS AND STATUTORY AUTHORITIES SUBJECT TO REVIEW BY THE COURTS 
Agents Ordinance 
Section 98. 
Architects Ordinance 
Section 17- President sitting alone. 
Section 25- President sitting alone. 
Building Ordinance 
Section 19- President sitting alone. 
Section 48- President sitting alone. 
Business Names Ordinance 
Section 1 9- President sitting alone. 
Co-operative Societies Ordinance 
Section11- President sitting alone. 
Dentists Registration Ordinance 
Section 24- President sitting alone. 
Section 30- President sitting alone. 
Electricity Ordinance 
Section 31 -President sitting alone. 
Fluoroscopes Ordinance 
Section 12- President sitting alone. 
Gun Licence Ordinance 
Section 10- President sitting alone. 
Land Rent and Rates (Deferment and Remission) Ordinance 
Section 1 1-President sitting alone. 
Medical Practitioners Registration Ordinance 
Section 23. 
Section 30. 
Section 38 a. 
Section 38b. 
Milk Authority Ordinance 
Section 34- President sitting alone. 
Motor Traffic Ordinance 
Section 4 1 n- President sitting alone. 
Nurses Registration Ordinance 
Section 23- President sitting alone. 
Section 28k- President sitting alone. 
Section 30- President sitting alone. 
Optometrists Ordinance 
Section 17- President sitting alone. 
Section 26- President sitting alone. 
Pharmacy Ordinance 
Section 26- President sitting alone. 
Section 32- President sitting alone. 
Police (Disciplinary Provisions) Ordinance 
Section 43- President sitting alone. 
Soil Conservation Ordinance 
Section 7. 
Surveyors Ordinance 
Section 32- President sitting alone. 
Veterinary Surgeons Registration Ordinance 
Section 28- President sitting alone. 
PartV 
I wish to add to what has been said. This amendment was referred to in the House of Representatives and it was curious that no reason was given for refusing it, except that this form had been used in some recent legislation, mostly relating to examples not of the nature of the duties that will be performed by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, as  Senator Greenwood  said. People who will be performing these duties will be dealing with appeals in respect of which it is highly desirable that it be known what are the terms, the length of office and the particular rights which this particular person who is to adjudicate on an appeal will have. I hope that this amendment will be considered seriously. This information ought to be known. The situation is not as stated by the Attorney-General,  Mr Enderby,  in the other place, who said that this amendment would introduce a rigidity that is not desirable. I think that it is a rigidity that is desirable. This information ought to be known because this Bill will cover not one person but quite a number of people. The exact and precise rights of the office bearer ought to be known by the public. I hope that the Government will give more serious consideration to this amendment than it did when it was moved in the House of Representatives. 
I support the opposition to this clause. I wish to add one comment. The clause states that a presidential member is to have the status of a judge of a Federal court. Would that not mean that it would be a lifetime appointment? Surely the status would have to include the right of lifetime appointment. That would clash with clause 8, which enables a presidential member to hold office until he attains 70 years of age. I may be wrong, but I would have thought that the inclusion of the word 'status 'in this clause would mean that there would have to be a lifetime appointment. That is inconsistent with clause 8. 
-May I ask just one question? I felt some reservations, but perhaps not so strongly as  Senator Wright.  I wonder whether the Minister is satisfied with all the areas of enactment as defined in clause 3. I refer in particular to paragraph (c) of sub-clause ( 1 ) of clause 3- 'an instrument (including rules, regulations or by-laws) made under an Act or such an Ordinance'. Is the Minister satisfied that the various instruments would all be areas that would be subject to the disallowance powers of this House? If it were not and if some rule could be made which, in effect, would obliterate, say, a provision made by an Act of this Parliament, then I think that probably would be a matter of some concern. Is the Minister satisfied that all those instruments would be disallowable by the provisions which we have set up in this Parliament for this purpose? 
-I am not sure whether I entirely understand  Senator Wright's  objection. My reading of proposed new clause 26a (3) is that it allows the regulations to amend the Schedule by inserting certain things in the Schedule; in other words, the Government has accepted a number of specific jurisdictions that are to be put into the Schedule and this adds to that. I do not think it in any way entitles the deletion of anything contained in the Schedule. 
I am sorry; that is so. I had not noted that there was a power to omit. In my view that does justify the criticism that  Senator Wright  has made. Insofar as the rest of the matter is concerned, it seems to me to be desirable that there should be power by the Government to insert provisions because there is obviously a need for further work to be done and more jurisdiction to be given to this Tribunal. But in that event I do think that objection can be made to the power to omit provisions from the Schedule. 
I support strongly both amendments to this clause. I address a remark only in regard to the second of the 2 amendments. I believe it is very desirable that this very vague and open reason be removed because it gives to the Minister a tremendous power to fail to disclose reasons. The point I want to make is that although in clause 36 there is some power allowed to parties who appeal to the Tribunal to inspect documents the problem is in the area to which clause 28 applies, where a person wants to know the reasons for a decision and wants to make up his own mind whether he has some reasonable grounds for going to the expenses, where there is the difficulty and the general worry of appealing, at that stage the information is denied. I think it would be highly undesirable to give that sweeping power to the Minister to make this certificate and thereby allow the person who has made a decision to know nothing about it. A person would have to act in the dark and go ahead with an appeal and possibly have some right later to find out the reasons. I trust the amendments will be adopted. 
I would like to comment on both of the proposed subclauses that are included in this amendment. I want to draw to the attention of  Senator Greenwood  one factor which, on a reading of what the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  said when this Bill was debated in the House of Representatives, may cause some slight confusion. The same amendment was put before the House of Representatives. The first sub-clause in the amendment relates to representation by counsel or solicitor at hearing of the Tribunal. I note that in the debate in the House of Representatives the Attorney-General, in reply to this amendment, said: 
In fact, the Government takes a different view and suggests that they are not self-evident at all. With respect to the first aspect put by my good friend- 
This relates to proposed sub-clause (3A)-  he seeks to have a right built into the legislation for every witness- party or not- to have a lawyer. We think that that is not self-evident. That is not the normal position in other courts. 
I wonder whether, in fact, under this proposed sub-clause the position is that someone is being summoned by the Tribunal. No doubt the procedure prescribed by tribunals will enable witnesses to be summoned by parties apart from the Tribunal. I put to  Senator Greenwood  the question, whether, in fact proposed sub-clause (3a) ought not to commence with 'a person so summoned to appear' or alternatively 'a person summoned under this clause to appear'. There should be some limiting words in the amendment. I wonder whether that would overcome the objection which the Government took previously with regard to this proposition. 
In regard to the second part of the amendment, I would like to address a question to  Senator James  McClelland. When this matter was debated in the House of Representatives the Attorney-General objected to the proposal. At page 2736 of Hansard the Attorney-General is reported as having said:   the Government certainly accepts the proposition but it claims that it is part of the existing Bill. 
I would like to know where it is. I cannot ascertain what part of the Bill contains this provision. Perhaps it could be drawn to the attention of the Committee. 
-I put a view which is only slightly to the contrary. I see the force of what  Senator Wright  said, namely, that appeals should not be restricted merely to decisions that are taken from the date of proclamation onwards. On the other hand, I can see a situation in which decisions have been made before now and existing review proceedingsperhaps an appeal to a court or to a Minister or other forms of review that exist at present- are already in process and a great deal of expense and time has been involved. Whilst I go along with the main proposition put by  Senator Wright-  that the operation of the Bill should not be restricted to the future- perhaps where an existing review facility has not been entered upon then a review ought to be available under this Bill. 
-So far as the objection I raised is concerned, this amendment covers the situation. It seems satisfactorily to ensure that there will be at least regulations that are subject to this Senate. I have some difference with  Senator Wright  in this respect. I do not think there is any way of avoiding the eternal vigilance that has to be observed. If in fact there is some wholesale method pursued to try to take jurisdiction away from this Tribunal 1 think it will be noticeable to the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, or to some other person in the Senate. I think that this probably is the best that can be done. 

 Senator JAMES MCCLELLAND (New South Wales- Minister for Manufacturing 
Industry) (5.10)- I seek leave to amend the amendment. 
I speak to this amendment, which will now be carried, as one who objected to this clause. I am not completely happy that in the long run it will satisfactorily cure the problem. I think it is probably the best we can get at this time. The objection was that a Minister could have too great a power to refuse to give reasons for his decision. I think it could still be the case. We are adopting the position at common law- what the courts have worked out. I doubt whether it will be sufficient in the long run. I will certainly watch the operation of this clause. If it becomes, in the eyes of the Ministers, a convenient excuse for not giving reasons, I certainly will raise the matter in the future. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Postponed clause 36. 
-The Minister for Manufacturing Industry will recall that last week I asked him whether it was likely that legislation in regard to legal aid and particularly in regard to the Australian Legal Aid Commission and the Australian Legal Aid Office would be introduced into the Parliament so that it could be studied in the recess. The Minister expressed the hope that this would be so. May I know whether those hopes will be realised? 
I join with  Senator Wright  in opposing the motion which has been put forward by the Government. I wish to draw attention to the message received from the House of Representatives. It states: 
Because the present arrangements for assistance to private members by the Office of Parliamentary Counsel are more satisfactory both to private members and to the Government than the arrangements proposed by the amendment. 
That, solely, is the reason. It is, I think, one of the most arrogant statements that I have read since I have been in this Parliament. The Government can say that the arrangements are more satisfactory to private members, but what particular right has the Government to say that? Private members are able to express their views. They express their views by voting in the Senate. I will hope that they will indicate that they do not agree with that particular reason. 
Insofar as it is said by the Government that the legislative program might be prejudiced, I support what has been said by  Senator Wright.  In the last week or two an enormous number of Bills has been flowing into this chamber. These Bills have been undigested by the House of Representatives so they need further study in this chamber. To suggest that the great size of the Government's legislative program is somehow a reason why legislation should not be carefully amended is nonsense. If these Bills are guillotined through the House of Representatives it seems to me all the more reason why the amendments should be properly considered here and why all advice that can be obtained in the drafting of those amendments should be used . That is not an argument for the Government, it is an argument against the Government so far as the size of its legislative program is concerned. 
The argument was put forward that all that could be expected, if this amendment were accepted, is, firstly, that it will be a pious amendmentnamely, there is a suggestion that the Government will ignore the operation of it. Secondly, there is a suggestion that there would be only 2 draftsmen whose priority job it would be to look after amendments proposed by back benchers. I suggest that that does not follow from the amendment. One would expect that it would be convenient, in most cases, to have the particular draftsman who drafted the Bill doing the job. I do not see any reason why this amendment would stop that sensible course from being continued. It would mean at least this: Two of the draftsmen in the Office of Parliamentary Counsel would have a priority job. It may only take up a small part of their work, that would not matter. It would mean that, at least in regard to those two people, there would be work that could be done in a hurry. 
I suggest that this amendment which was put forward by the Senate, is and remains a desirable amendment. No sensible argument has yet been advanced against the inclusion of this amendment. I trust that the Senate will stand firm on its resolution in this regard. It is one of those important aspects whereby the back bench members of the Parliament have to remain, they have to improve their position and they have to be in a position where they can stand up against the overwhelming power of the Government with the facilities that it has and with the office staff that it has. 
There has to be some redress of the balance if parliamentary government is going to be effective and if we are going to be regarded as serious legislators in this community. I hope the Committee will stand by its amendment. 
I take great pleasure in supporting the motion for the second reading of the Australian Heritage Commission Bill. I wish to make some remarks about it and about the report on which it is based. Before I do I must comment very briefly on the speech which we have just heard from  Senator Button.  Before I was elected a senator I sometimes thought, when I listened on the radio to speeches in Parliament, that people so often proceeded to find their government white and every other government black; they discovered that everything has started from the moment their government came into office; they could see nothing wrong with anything that had been done since. I will not fall into this mistake tonight. It seems to me that  Senator Button  spent a great deal of time blackening those who had gone before and ignoring and trying to downplay the efforts which had been made in this area. 
There were many efforts. I will not be led astray by going into a great deal of detail. There were many efforts. The concept of and the achievements in the city of Canberra, such as the creation of buildings in the city alone, to take one example, were very much the work of  Sir Robert  Menzies and previous governments. They showed great vision. These things are part of our Australian heritage. I give that as one example. I thought  Senator Button  was a bit churlish tonight when he spoke of the contribution which  Senator Durack  made to this debate. He even seemed to suggest that before 1972, to use his throwaway line, the music was the cash registers of mining companies. I will concede that the music is certainly still today; there is no such music. That line and other throwaway lines do not detract from the situation. A great deal of work was done.  Senator Durack  referred to the type of work which was done by organistions throughout this country in achieving part of that Australian heritage which we have today- by organisations which worked to retain it, often under difficult circumstances and with a lack of public recognition. 
And money. Yes, money is important in this area. That is one of the things which must be recognised. More money will be involved if we are to retain the heritage which we presently enjoy. I return to the Bill and to the report. I will not in the short time tonight do justice to what I think is an extremely fine report of the investigation of the Hope Committee. I think that report will remain a landmark and an important and valuable guide to those who proceed to operate under this Bill. The Bill itself is very much guided and created in the light of its recommendations. In saying that it does not mean that one has to swallow all that is in the report.  Senator Durack  has referred to some of the more extreme statements which I think are hard to justify. But taken overall the report points out a great many of the areas in which this heritage of ours exists. One appreciates that not only is there a definition in the Bill but also we have to look at our heritage from different angles. On page 334 of the report it states: 
The three components of the cultural and natural environment forming the National Estate are those which are: 
of such outstanding world significance that they need to be conserved, managed and presented as part of the heritage of the world. 
of such outstanding national value that they need to be conserved, managed and presented as part of the heritage of the nation as a whole. 
of such aesthetic, historical, scientific, social, cultural, ecological or other special value to the nation or any part of it, including a regional locality, that they should be conserved, managed and presented for the benefit of the community as a whole. 
In that definition the Committee also pointed out that these things fall into many categories, some of them matters of natural environment, some of them man-made and part of our cultural environment, others archeological and others cultural. Therefore there is one thing that comes from the report and the creation of this Commission and that is that we are recognising at last the wide range, the very much wider view that we have now of the heritage which should be preserved. It is not just the buildings. It is not just the books and the actual close physical items. Of course it is also areas of our country and the appearances, the coastline and these other aspects which can easily be destroyed. To illustrate some of these things I shall read a few of the major recommended areas mentioned in the report. They include land use, wildlife, parks, coastlines, built environment, Aboriginal sites and special areas, historic sites, geological sites, caves, museums, historic shipwrecks, archives, export of cultural property and education. As a result of the report many aspects of these now are easier to appreciate and because of the establishment of the Commission these objectives will be carried forward. It is indeed welcome that the Government has accepted some amendments to this Bill. It is indeed welcome that there are such provisions in the Bill as those contained in clause 9 which provides that all departments and all authorities of 
Australia shall give to the Commission such assistance in the carrying out of its functions as is reasonable and practical. Clause 9 (2) states: 
All Departments and all authorities of Australia shall comply with all reasonable requests for information made to them by the Commission in the performance of its functions. 
Therefore the Government can give a practical lead through the departments of Government to ensure that the heritage is maintained by the de- partments of government. I think we ought to look somewhat distantly at other countries when we consider what is needed to preserve our heritage, such as it is, and to build it up. A few years ago when travelling in England and in Europe I spent some considerable time looking at the various historic sites and observing above all things the character which the Government and the people of Great Britain were preserving in their national monuments, as they describe them. The Ministry of Public Works obviously went to great care and the people of the communities in which those great historic sites exist were extremely vigilant and proud of the contribution which they were able to make. They had pride in their localities as well. 
When I came back from observing this I must say what struck me so forcibly in the first few months after my return was the state of country towns in particular in Australia, the state of dilapidation, the unsightliness of iron sheds in a state of rust, the shops in disuse. I do not confine my remarks to the country but this situation struck me immediately because of the comparison with the countryside of England and Europe. I appreciate that we have not had the long historical experience of those countries and perhaps we do not yet have the same pride in locality as they have. But I believe this will come and it will be assisted by the provisions of this Bill. People of a later generation will either bemoan the fact that we have destroyed things which should have been preserved, or they will be grateful to us for those things which we have retained. 
Like  Senator Durack,  I too pay tribute to what has been done by national trusts throughout this country working under difficulties, with slow recognition and with shortage of money. Also in this tribute I add those local bodies, whether they be historical societies or progress associations, which have preserved local items which they believe are important to the history of this country. Those organisations need encouragement and I am sure they will get it through the help of the Australian Heritage Commission. The need to work with the States has been stressed. Of course, the Commission needs to work not only through the States but also through the local organisations. The Commission needs to encourage them in their work. With the Bill as it is, with the proposed Register of National Estate items, with the inventory and with the opportunity to accept gifts and bequests, I believe a better appreciation will develop of what there is in this country. 
I see this Bill as a somewhat inchoate Bill. It starts by registering the various properties and items of interest. It is probably not absolutely clear now how far the Commission will be able to go in protecting them. I think it must be recognised that this Bill will have a continuing and growing importance in this country. I join with  Senator Durack  in being somewhat concerned at the lack of recognition of compensation which I think must be available to some reasonable degree. If people find they have a property or some piece of real estate which is of great interest, then they may be greatly prejudiced if they are denied an opportunity of building or developing. The community may require that they undergo that difficulty. I think that where this happens there must be some reasonable compensation for people so that we ensure that the protection of the national heritage is not a burden around the necks of people but is something in which they can have pride and in regard to which they do not lose overmuch. It has been recognised in this Bill that the part which the Australian Heritage Commission is to play is supplementary. It is not the role of taking over the existing work which has been done.  Senator Cavanagh,  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs- I do not know whether he is still the Minister- who in this chamber represented the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  stated in his second reading speech: 
Grants made under the National Estate program must be seen as a supplement to the resources of the States, State bodies such as the National Trust, local government bodies and voluntary organisations. We do not want to supplant private effort or the work of other levels of government; we want to supplement them. 
I think we need to emphasise that fact. It is quite correct. It would be a mistake if we see some effort being made to centralise the work and thereby deny the value of local effort in preserving our heritage. As far as this aspect is concerned, I have noted the growing interest over many years in a small field which is referred to in the Report of the National Estate. It is the field of libraries and archives. In Victoria some years ago I did a survey of what was happening to the great State Library of Victoria which late last century was one of the great libraries of the world. It is not one of the great libraries of the world now. 
Shortage of money, poor conditions and a decline in the ability to buy books has made it less successful. Then there were patent and obvious needs. Money was called for to improve both the housing and the circumstances under which that great library was performing its job. 
One of the jobs found probably in all other States is the important job of preserving the archives of the community. These are often kept in conditions of great danger from fire and decay. If this were to happen, part of our history would disappear because we were not farsighted. In that one area in which I was doing some work, I believe that the position has not improved greatly. There is obviously a great need for the restoration and preservation of this part of our National Estate. 
I say, in conclusion, that I believe that this Bill will help Australia to develop a national pride in that part of its history, small though it may be compared with that of other countries. If we, who are still in the early stages of the history of this country, do not preserve those items of interest and do not keep them for future generations, we will not see the development of a national spirit and interest. No government should claim or can claim that it alone is interested in this area. I warmly commend the Government for having appointed the Committee and for having brought forward this Bill. I think it is substantially a good Bill. I believe that, on whatever side of this Parliament we may be, we see this as a good step forward in developing and maintaining the heritage of this country. 
I propose to speak but briefly on this Bill because I feel that to speak at any length on it would give it a credit and a justification which it does not, in any way, deserve. I suppose I may almost criticise my 3 colleagues who have spoken already. They are decent, honourable and generous men and they have gone to some lengths to find arguments to rebut. I have no intention of pursuing any that are left because one would have to descend into the ragbag to find them. 
This Bill is an old harridan. It has been around the Parliament for many years. It has been before the Senate either 4 times or 5 times. It has been coming backwards and forwards from the House of Representatives because it is one of the pet subjects of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who  sees in  it some type of logic which he thinks should be pursued at all costs. 
This Bill has been debated in the Senate before. It is aged. It is not dignified by age. It has, in fact, no greater justification now than it ever had; in fact, as I will demonstrate, it has much less justification now than it had when it was first presented to the Senate. I noticed that when  Senator James  McClelland made his second reading speech he was very kind to propose not to repeat arguments he had made previously in support of this Bill, but he drew our attention to his earlier second reading speeches and the speeches of the previous Attorney-General. I feel like returning the compliment. If honourable senators opposite who are not speaking in this debate tonight but who are remaining silent except for occasional burblings should like to read anything about this Bill I refer them to my speech at page 466 of Senate Hansard of 26 February 1975 where I think they will find my arguments along with the arguments of my colleagues who on that occasion successfully demolished the Bill. 

 - Senator, I think we must pay credit to the Government for sensibly having no speakers in favour of this Bill and thereby recognising the logic of its position. I think it is quite satisfactory that Government supporters should not want to speak on this Bill which is now in a state of decay. 
There is a certain idiocy about the representation of this Bill. One recalls that on the occasion when it was last presented to the House of Representatives no less a person than the Prime Minister spoke in the debate and tried to reply to the honourable member for Wentworth,  Mr 
Ellicott. The Prime Minister was met with a certain difficulty insofar as it was suggested that there was something out of date about the Bill. In reply to  Mr Ellicott  he said: 
He made 2 points in saying that this Bill was now antiquated. He said that it was referring to the Matrimonial Causes Act. He also said that it set salaries for judges, and that the Matrimonial Causes Act and the judges' salaries have been overtaken by events. Of course they have. 
I ask honourable senators to note that. 
Of course they have. Most pieces of legislation which were introduced, as this was, 18 months ago and which have had to be introduced S times, as this has had to be introduced, may be overtaken by some intervening legislation, but it is not our fault that the Bill did not go through 18 months ago. It is not our fault that the Bill has had to be introduced 5 times. What the honourable gentleman is wanting to do is to incite senators to reject this Bill or to fail to pass this Bill. 
I assure the Prime Minister that it takes no incitement on my part to reject this Bill because I have at all times felt that it was an absolute red herring and a highly undesirable piece of legislation in this community. If I may add to the idiocy of the Prime Minister in respect of the type of attitude that because a Bill is out of date he will still press on with it, I refer to the second reading speech of  Senator James  McClelland. After he told us that the Bill had failed in February, he said: 
To meet the requirements of section 57 of the Constitution, the Bill was re-presented in the House of Representatives on 28 May in the form in which it was previously passed by the House. 
Had it not been for those requirements, some changes would have been made now to the Bill, to take account of the creation of the Family Court of Australia under the Family Law Bill. 

 Senator Wright and I find ourselves in a happy alliance tonight on the Family Law Bill because here we have a Bill which is admittedly out of date, which tries to create a Family Law Division in this Superior Court, well knowing that this Parliament and every member of the chamber on the opposite side has voted for a Family Law Bill which creates a completely separated court, a court in which the whole idea of a Family Law Division of the Superior Court was anathema because we did not want judges jumping from one jurisdiction to another. We wanted a separate court. That was the thing that the members on the other side voted for. 
We all agreed that what we needed was a separated court- a family court which would deal separately with this- and yet before us on this occasion is a Bill which repeats the nonsense, which in clause 20 once more refers to the Matrimonial Causes Act, shortly to be put to its last resting place, and wants to resurrect it and create a Division in this court. 
We are told that because the Government wants to have a double dissolution issue- that is all there is in this Bill- it wants to inflict upon this Parliament and upon the people of this country a Bill which none of us wants, which in regard to family law is not the desire of any members of this Parliament,  Senator Georges  wants to interject. 
I am so glad that I have at last induced the honourable senator to come from his recumbent posture. I am so glad that he is now going to rise to his feet and defend this Bill because to this date, I suggest to honourable senators opposite, it has been indefensible. 
In fact what  Senator James  McClelland said in his second reading speech is even more of a nerve than I have ever struck. He said: 
New areas or Federal Law are rapidly developing and the Parliament must concern itself with how these laws are to be administered in the courts. In family law there will be the choice between establishing special procedures, with judges specially selected for their aptitude for and interest in this field of law, or of leaving the administration of the new family law to the vagaries of 8 different systems of courts, only some of which have begun to move towards specialised family law  prodecures 
Bear in mind that this is part of the argument for the Superior Court. There, with the greatest nerve- he has some excellent nerve, I must admit-  Senator James  McClelland tells us how we are going to have these separated courts yet he is asking us at the same time and in this document to vote for a Superior Court Bill which goes in the opposite direction and which would destroy the provisions we made for the family court in the Family Law Bill. 
I have said before that I reject the idea of apeing the Americans in their worst possible sphere, in trying to create this duplicate jurisdiction, in trying to take away from our State courts instead of putting into our State courts jurisdiction, a greater amount of which should go to them and with which they could satisfactorily deal. 
Let me refer to the one serious part of this aspect because this is really a ludicrous Bill that we have before us. The Commercial Law Association has studied the Superior Court Bill in detail and has come up with what I think are excellent answers to it. In its report it made comment on the whole idea of a Superior Court. 
The creation of the proposed Superior Court would bring confusion to the existing judicial system. Reform should be directed rather to simplifying and unifying the Australian courts system. Heed should be given to  Sir Victor  Windeyer 's advice that we should 'avoid anything that would emphasise a division between Commonwealth and States, anything that could create jealousies and create further complexities'. Artificial divisions between federal and state jurisdiction could be as divisive and as hard to remove as the distinction between the common law and equitable jurisdictions which took so long to abolish in New South Wales. 
The creation of the Superior Court would perpetuate the 2-tier system of courts, rather than alleviate the distinction between federal and state jurisdiction: 
The report included the following: 
The biggest single disadvantage of the proposed Superior Court is that constitutional questions of jurisdiction will necessarily loom large in the Court's deliberations, resulting in considerable uncertainty and expense to litigants, unproductive use of the Court's time, and consequent damage to the quality of justice. 
Those people who had experience and who know what they are talking about are those who can conclude that this Bill is a mischievous Bill, one which will create danger, one which will create cost, one which will create an unnecessary number of lifetime judges- because that is what the Federal judges will be- at great cost to this community. 
There is no doubt that this Parliament should not submit itself to the megalomania of the Prime Minister, who wants to build up this system. He wants to create new courts; he wants the neatness of it. He wants, as in so many other fields, to build empires for his own benefit. I trust we shall reject this Bill and the nonsense that it is. 
I desire to raise a matter which I think is of great importance to Australia and one which, so far as I am aware, has not yet been debated at all in this Parliament. I refer to the threatened rape of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the possible destruction of that organisation, which is one of the most successful of the bodies run by the Australian Government for many years. This matter arises in the lee of the recent changes of Ministers. It arises out of a change of portfolios of Ministers as announced in the Press statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on 5 June. According to that statement the Department of Science will now be the Department of Science and Consumer Affairs. The statement concludes: 
The Department of Minerals and Energy will take over responsibility for the Minerals Research Laboratories and the Solar Energy Studies Unit. 
This has already been a matter of considerable concern not only to the persons who work in the CSIRO but also to many people in the community. They are only starting to realise the significance of the changes. This morning I endeavoured to ask a question on this subject. Due to the vicissitudes of which we are aware I was not able to do so, but I propose to raise the 5 different points I was going to mention in that question as the basis on which I comment. I trust that we will hear that some movement is developing. 
The only thing that has happened so far as this change is concerned is that following the Prime Minister's statement on 6 June, that is, last Friday, certain ministerial arrangements were gazetted. Among them was a notification stating that the Governor-General had approved that units of the CSIRO, namely, the Minerals Research Laboratories and Solar Energy Studies Unit, be transferred to the Department of Minerals and Energy. The Department of Science and Consumer Affairs is described in a schedule in the Gazette as administering the Science and Industry Research Act 1949-1973 except insofar as it relates to mineral and solar energy research. It is on the basis of that statement and discussions which members of the CSIRO Executive have had with Ministers that the alarm is now felt. 
The first question I propose to ask about this subject is: Has the Government received any advice that it is able, under existing legislation, to dissect the CSIRO in the manner proposed? If so, will the Government table such advice in the Senate? If not, does the Government propose to introduce legislation for this purpose? I do not propose to deal at great length with the legal situation, but I must say that it is my opinion, based on some discussion and research, that the Government has not yet taken this step in a way in which it could do so and I doubt whether it can take this step successfully. Of course this matter will be given much closer consideration in the next few days by those who are concerned. If the Government is endeavouring to take this drastic step, which is in effect to take 10 per cent of the staff of the CSIRO, 500 people, out of that organisation and place them within a Public Service department- they are not members of the Public Service at present- it may be that the Government is endeavouring to rely on Division 9E of the Public Service Act. That was put into the Act in 1948 for the purpose of enabling some persons who were engaged in wartime service to be transferred to the Public Service. If this is to be done under section 81ZI then it is necessary for the Governor-General to publish in the Gazette a declaration:  . . that any work or class of work specified in the notice which is being performed under the control of the Council is work which should, on and from a date specified in the notice, be performed under the control of such Department of State . . . 
It is quite clear that the Government has not done that. No date is specified. No class of work is specified. In any event, I suggest the Government has not yet taken that step. On the other hand, if it is relying on Division 9f which was inserted in the Act by the Parliament this year then similarly there must be a declaration:  . . this Division shall apply in relation to a class of persons specified in the declaration . . . 
It then declares those persons and gives them the option of joining the Public Service. It does not appear to me that the Government has done that either. Consequently one must come back to what I suggest is a very dubious proposition that the Government can do what it is doing. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation was made a body corporate under the provisions of the Science and Industry Research Act 1949. That Organisation took over the offices and employees of the existing Commonwealth Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. The employees were to continue to hold office and appointment under the CSIRO which was created as an Organisation by an Act of this Parliament. The CSIRO was given power to carry out scientific research and investigation. Its executive was made the governing body of the Organisation. In that sense it is a powerful, independent corporation. When one comes to the provisions of that Act, which I submit have not been overridden by other legislation, one finds that section 2 1 provides: 
1 ) Subject to this Part, the Executive may appoint such officers of the Organisation as it thinks necessary for the purpose of this Act. 
The selection of persons for appointment as officers under this section shall be made in accordance with such requirements as the Public Service Board determines. 
Employees are not part of the Public Service but the Public Service can make requirements in regard to appointments and their terms. Section 22 is the only other section I shall read. It is specific. It states: 
Officers shall not be subject to the Commonwealth Public Service Act 1922-1948 but shall hold office on such terms and conditions as are, subject to the approval of the Public Service Board, determined by the Executive. 
I merely summarise by saying that those powers appear to me to be not controvertible in the way in which this Government proposes to act. I would be very interested to hear any argument to the contrary. The second question I raise is this: Apart from the legality of this decision, has the Government received protests and threats of resignation from the executive and staff of the CSIRO against this disastrous decision which may severely damage the effectiveness and the national and international repute of this institution? I do not think I need argue the repute of the CSIRO. I think it has been demonstrably a great success. A large amount of that success is due to the fact that it has been able freely to appoint people who may be unconventional and who are not the sort of people who go into the Public Service and wait for appointments slowly, piece by piece. They are people who do not want to become administrators. They want to stay as scientists. Consequently, this decision is one of the greatest unwisdom. It is unnecessary. 
The protest today was led by Doctor Price who is the head of the organisation. He made a public statement. He had to make it in the interests of his staff. I trust that he does not suffer for that. I think that is a demonstration of the strong feeling which the members of that organisation have. This proposed take-over is unnecessary because we do not want people who are doing research to become an appendage of a Government department. I have before me a Press release of 1 1 September 1974 which is a record of a joint statement by the Minister for Minerals and Energy and the former Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison).  That Press release in part states: 
The Ministers said CSIRO would continue its research into the use of solar energy for the production of heat such as was needed for the production of domestic hot water, for process water in industry, and for industrial drying applications such as the kiln drying of timber. 
The Ministers also said that CSIRO was pursuing research in many areas which could bear on the utilisation of solar energy. The Department of Minerals and Energy would take over the development phase of those CSIRO research results which were approaching practical realisations. 
So there has been a recognition that under its own charter the CSIRO must co-operate with other bodies and with departments. There is no need for part of the organisation to be taken over, as has happened. I ask: Has not this protest been made and has not this damage been threatened to this organisation? 
The third question which I ask is: Is this action the first of other proposed attempts to destroy CSIRO by transferring its component parts to various Government departments and bringing its officers under Public Service control? I ask that question in no sense as a by-the-way question. I believe there has been reason for fear that this situation would develop and that this organisation may well be whittled down. It is obvious that there are departments that could well have this desire in mind. The Department of Urban and Regional Development or the Department of Housing and Construction may have some reason for thinking that they would like to have under their aegis and control the building research which is done by CSIRO. The National Library may feel that it ought to control the central science library of CSIRO. Perhaps more importantly the Department of Agriculture may seek to have some claim on the wheat and wool research in which CSIRO is involved. 
The fourth question I ask is: Is it a fact that neither the former Minister for Science, the new Science and Technology Council nor CSIRO was consulted as to the advisability of this move? One of the most significant facts about the move is that none of those people, including the Science and Technology Council, which met for the first time I believe last week, has been asked whether it was a desirable course. Presumably neither the former Minister for Science nor the present Minister for Science  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has been asked. The consequence is that one sees this move in a most sinister atmosphere because it was not done after consideration. 
The fifth question then comes automatically to mind. It is: Was the move undertaken in defiance of the Australian Labor Party federal platform to satisfy the aggrandising demands of the Minister for Minerals and Energy and his ambitious permanent head,  Sir Lenox  Hewitt? I ask whether it was done in defiance of the Australian Labor Party platform because I hope that this will be a matter of consideration for the members of the Australian Labor Party here. The ALP platform contains quite a deal of interesting and useful information. I wish to read to the Senate parts of it which have been flouted by this decision. The general statement reads: 
To promote public understanding of the impact of science and technology on the community. 
To maintain the traditional freedoms of scientists. 
Surely that part of the platform is being flouted by putting 10 per cent of these scientists under the control of a department. 
Let us hear the rest of it, because under the heading 'Organisation' the Party stands for- 
A minister with direct responsibility for science and technology. 
That is the Minister.  Mr Clyde  Cameron is the Minister. It is hard to see why we should start to have a number of Ministers with varying controls, and why it should be taken from the area of science in which scientists together decide what should be done and what areas should be explored so that we have a position in which the organisation becomes merely part of the working machinery doing only what some other Minister requires. 
Paragraph 1 1 of the platform states: 
To amend the Science and Industry Research Act where necessary to strengthen CSIRO 's involvement as a research organisation in new fields, particularly in consumer standards, safety, transport and environment research. 
There is no mention of taking away the idea that this organisation is worthy of greater involvement, with which I think we all agree. The last objective is to maintain the CSIRO free from Public Service Board control- the last and obvious breach of the Labor Party platform which has been made in the last few days by this attempt to manipulate. 
I suggest that the real danger in this move is that, to give to a Minister some increased power, you are fiddling with and perhaps destroying an organisation with an international and national repute. It is of course, consistent with things that have been going on in respect of that Department and that Minister. Most of us read in the Bulletin' last week an article by Peter Samuel headed 'Lenox Hewitt faces the fight of his life'. It describes the development which that Department of Minerals and Energy has undergone. The article says: 
Hewitt inherited in December 1972 a department which contained according to the 1972 Commonwealth Directory one full division and six branches, and only second division staff . . . That was what was left of the old Department of National Development . . . 
There are now nine divisions in the department and the number of second division . . . positions has grown to 3 1 . There are 1 9 branches, headed by these fat cats as Labor Minister Cameron would call them. 
That is perhaps an interesting description, but who else would call them that? That is the situation with respect to the growth of this Department and also in that article, which I will not describe at length, are details of the correspondence, the wheeling and dealing and the methods by which  Sir Lenox  Hewitt obtained from the Public Service Board that increase in staff. This move, which is now gilding the lily, is objectionable because it is so dangerous to an organisation. 
It is not just a matter of getting more staff, whatever that might do, but of taking away and shocking an organisation and, I am sure from my discussions today with members of the CSIRO, driving from this country people who will not submit themselves to Public Service conditions in the field of science. I urge the Government to give very heavy consideration to this matter. I think there will be a long fight ahead if the Government proceeds with this move. I hope that the CSIRO will emerge from this successful and in one piece. I urge the Government to reconsider this move before it is too late. 
I direct my question to the ' Leader of the Government in the Senate who also represents the Minister for Minerals and Energy. I refer to the attempt by the Prime Minister to remove the Minerals Research Laboratories and Solar Energy Studies Unit from CSIRO and into the control of the Department of Minerals and Energy. In the anticipation that the Minister has taken the opportunity to consider the legal, moral and policy objections raised by me and other speakers in the adjournment debate last evening, I ask: Why is the Government pursuing this policy of vandalism to the detriment of the nation and the future of CSIRO? What is the peculiar hold which the Minister for Minerals and Energy has over the Prime Minister that he is able to force this dissection of CSIRO? Will the Government reconsider its decision in the light of the representations made by CSIRO officials and other responsible persons? 
I rise to support the amendment moved by  Senator Withers  and to move an amendment to  Senator Hall's  amendment. We are indebted to  Senator Wheeldon  for coming in here tonight and giving us one of the speeches from the Party room in the last few weeks. I am sure that it has been delivered many times and it is nice for us to know what he has been saying. As for  Senator Hall,  one can hardly say that the speech we heard from him tonight had any air of novelty. Many of us who sit here quietly in the Opposition and have heard from time to time the bucketing that he chooses to give, no doubt for the purposes of the Press which gives it remarkable coverage, will not be impressed very much by the hindsight which he normally shows as the end of debates. We have now heard the speech which he was going to deliver today and I suppose we should be thankful, but it was an indication in itself that he did not have very much to contribute. He gave us a list of persons he wants to call before the Senate. He talked about the 'likely scene'. He does not know what the situation is but the likely scene' is all that he can talk about. 
I am not defending him. I have been attacking  Mr Connor  for the last 2 days over his activities in regard to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, and  Senator Hall  knows it.  Senator Hall  wants to call a number of witnesses, who, he thinks, might be helpful. It is probably in his mind to create the most interesting scene in the Parliament since King Charles came in to arrest a few members. It might be interesting, but what he ought to realise is that the Opposition in this chamber has had long discussions about and had given consideration to this matter.  His  are not the first and last thoughts on this matter which will be very much in the mind of the Opposition so that it can act properly and sensibly whenever the situation demands it. I heartily support the flexibility which is inherent in the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. The problem with  Senator Hall's  amendment, and I am afraid this is where he has hoodwinked  Senator Wright,  is that it suggests that he wants to include the words - 
We can overcome that. I am sure that  Senator Wright  will be happy with the amendment when he hears it but I am not sure that  Senator Hall  will be because the proposal contained in my amendment was suggested to him and he would not have a bar of it. The amendment which  Senator Hall  has moved seeks to insert the words 'for purposes which include the summoning of certain persons to attend as witnesses before the Senate'. I propose the insertion of the word 'may' so that the words in the amendment will then read 'for purposes which may include the summoning of certain persons to attend as witnesses before the Senate'. If that is accepted, should the Senate be recalled it would be no longer essential to summon witnesses as proposed by  Senator Hall. 

 Senator Wright expressed the view that  Senator Hall's  amendment did not restrict the recalling of the Senate to that purpose alone. That is quite so. It could be for other purposes. One thing that would have to be included in the purposes' as  Senator Hall's  amendment stands is the summoning of certain witnesses. Because that is the only purpose  Senator Hall  can see in recalling the Senate, he wants to include that and make it a compulsory part of the recalling process of the Senate. 
I move as an amendment to  Senator Hall's  amendment: 
After the word ' which ' insert the word ' may '. 
My amendment will put  Senator Hall  to the test. If he really meant to have the purpose mentioned in his amendment as one of the optional extras and one of the possibilities then he will accept my amendment. If on the other hand he chooses to want to confuse the Senate by hoping that the meaning that must be read into his amendment makes it a compulsory prerequisite to summon people before the Senate then he will reject my amendment. So I propose that we put him to the test. That test will be by inserting after the word which' the word 'may'. I hope then that  Senator Hall's  amendment will have no fears for the Opposition and will be a satisfactory amendment to  Senator Withers'  amendment. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware that there are thousands of highly qualified former private sector executives who are currently unemployed; if so, what action is he taking to have the Commonwealth Employment Service institute a program to ensure that employers are aware that the talents of those persons are available. 
Is a research project concerning the problems of retrenched executives now being undertaken by a Government sponsored team; if so, will the Minister ensure that the facilities of the Commonwealth Employment Service are made readily available to the team. 
Will the Minister ensure that the research project is expedited, in view of the depreciating morale of those executives concerned. 
Has the Government any proposals to utilise the talents of retrenched executives in a temporary capacity pending the recovery of the economy. 
Is the Commonwealth Employment Service adequately staffed and properly housed to cope with the present high level of unemployment; if not, could the facilities of private employment agencies be utilised to ensure that the Service is more effective, particularly in the handling of interviews and job placements. 
Why is there a discrepancy between job vacancies and employment figures. 
7 ) Why is it that some employees are unable to fill vacant positions. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration and Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Matters Relating to the Public Service, upon notice. 
1 ) Has there been any increase in the numbers, or percentage of university and/or other tertiary graduates now being admitted to the Australian Public Service, following upon the Prime Minister's recent statement that the restriction on the percentage growth of the Australian Public Service would be removed. 
What are the numbers of such graduates newly employed by the Australian Government (a) for the years 1972, 1973 and 1974 respectively, and (b) for the respective months of 1 975 to this date. 
If the answer to (1) is in the affirmative, does the Government consider that the loss of well qualified graduates available for employment by the private sector will retard the growth of confidence in and development of investment in the private sector. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is the low excursion air fare available to Australian citizens to re-visit their former homelands in the Middle East, including Israel, to be discontinued by the airlines from December 1974; if so, will this impose hardship and expense on citizens who wish to make short journeys to such countries. 
Is the Government prepared to make urgent representations to ensure the continuance of such excursion air fares. 
-On the point of order,  Mr President,  it has already been pointed out that the Foreign Minister  (Senator Willesee),  by his remarks on this point of order, is endeavouring to cause this witness to be intimidated. Now, on the contrary,  Senator Cavanagh  is endeavouring to impute ignorance on the part of the witness before the witness in fact has answered. I am suggesting that  Senator Cavanagh  should not be entitled to impute or suggest ignorance. The witness does not have to be an expert in a particular field in any area, either in a court of law or in this Senate, to have knowledge of an area and be able to answer. I suggest that he should be allowed to answer the question for himself. 

 Sir Lenox Hewitt,  With respect, it is not really within my present knowledge and I therefore cannot answer the question with the certainty that the answer I give would be correct. If I may, I should like to elaborate on that a little and also elaborate on what I said a moment ago. I was asked a direct question about the length of my experience at the Treasury and I answered Thirteen years'. I perhaps should have answered an unasked question, the answer to which would be that, with the exception of the periods in which I acted as Secretary of the Treasury, at no time when I was in the Treasury did Loan Council matters form part of my responsibilities there. If I may further say, I answered the 2 previous questions because, as a lay person quite untutored in the law, I thought they were formal questions and believed them to be formal questions. If I may add one more word, with the greatest and deepest respect,  Mr President,  I think that this epitomises the problems that a lay person and a person who is not qualified in the law faces when he is in a court of justice without the representation that is there provided to him in the form of counsel. 

 Sir Lenox Hewitt, With respect,  Mr President,  in view of the Minister's letter to you and his direction to me, I beg to decline to answer the question. 

 Sir Lenox Hewitt, With respect, my answer is really the same as the previous one. I cannot from my present personal knowledge and recollection give an accurate answer to that question. If I may illustrate my problem: I cannot recall, for example, whether it is the Treasurer of Australia or the Prime Minister of Australia who is the  Chairman  of the Loan Council. Consequently I cannot go on of my own knowledge accurately to say at this moment that it is the Treasurers of the States or the Premiers of the States. Indeed my recollection of being in attendance at Loan Council meetings is that they have all participated, but I cannot without counsel and consideration answer that formal question. 

 Sir Lenox Hewitt,  I am sorry,  Mr President,  but with the deepest respect I cannot be more helpful than I have already tried to be on that question. 

 Sir Lenox Hewitt,  With respect,  Mr President,  in view of the Minister's letter to you and his directions to me, I beg to be allowed to decline to answer the question. 
-I should like to ask  Mr Harders  whether he is aware of the resolution adopted by the Senate this morning and of the terms of that resolution. 

 Mr Harders; The resolution adopted by the Senate this morning concerning what subject? 
Concerning the statements which have been made. I will read the opening paragraph of the resolution and subparagraph (1) on which I desire to ask a question. It was resolved: 
That thc Senate notes the statements contained in the letters of the Prime Minister and of the Minister for Minerals and Energy, the Treasurer, the Attorney-General and the Solicitor-General addressed to the  President  of the Senate and declares and resolves: 
1 ) That the Senate affirms that it possesses the powers and privileges of the House of Commons as conferred by Section 49 of the Constitution and has the power to summon persons to answer questions and produce documents files and papers. 
That is the first sub-paragraph of the 4 subparagraphs in the resolution. 

 Mr Harders; I was present in the gallery of the Senate when that motion was adopted, and that is my answer to your question. 
My question, following that, is: You have heard me read out paragraph ( 1 ) of that motion. Do you accept the statements made in that paragraph as being true to your knowledge? 

 Mr Harder; Paragraph ( 1 ) being? 
In relation to the powers and privileges of the Senate as conferred by section 49 of the Constitution. 

 - Mr Byers, when you say that the privilege at all times is the privilege of the Crown and not your privilege, I take it that you judge that by the statement which the Prime Minister has made in claiming privilege? 

 Mr Byers; To some degree, yes. 
I assume you have read the letter which the Prime Minister wrote on 15 July to the  President  of the Senate? 

 Mr Byers; I heard it read out. 
I want to read to you the second paragraph of that letter. The Prime Minister writes in these terms: 
I write to you concerning the summonses that have been served on officers of the Public Service. The SolicitorGeneral, as the Second Law Officer under the Law Officers Act, is writing to you directly. The officers of the Public Service summoned will attend in accordance with the summonses. I wish to inform you, however, that each officer will be instructed by his Minister to claim privilege in respect of answers to all questions upon the matters contained in the Resolution of the Senate and in respect of the production of all documents, files and papers relevant to those matters. 
The question I want to ask you is: In that letter the Prime Minister indicates certain instructions that were given to Public Service officers. Is that not so? But he does not, in that letter, assert that any instructions will be given to you? 

 Mr Byers; He cannot give them to me. 
-I understand that. Nor does he indicate in that letter that you are to take any course in respect of claims of privilege? 

 Mr Byers; He cannot tell me what course I shall take. 
-You have, therefore, made up your own mind from your own opinions and views on the question of privilege as to what you should do and what refusal of questions you should give? 

 Mr Byers; That is correct. As I have endeavoured to indicate, after quite honestly the most anxious consideration, that is what I did. 
-Therefore, your case must be distinguished entirely from the case of the public servants who have been called today? 

 Mr Byers; In certain respects that is right. I know I am a terrible witness, but what I mean when I say 'in certain respects' it that the privilege, of course, in a sense is the same- it is Crown privilege- but the reason for not answering what would, in the absence of the privilege, be answerable is different in each case. 
Yet you have said today that you doubt whether the Prime Minister would waive the privilege and until it is waived, I think you said, you would still feel bound. Is that consistent with what you are saying now? 

 Mr Byers; I do not find any inconsistency in it. 
If the Prime Minister were to direct you to answer you would accept that direction? 

 Mr Byers; I did not say I doubted whether he would waive it; I said I doubted whether he could waive it. 
So, you are asserting that in your opinion the privilege not to give answers to the Senate could not be waived by the Prime Minister or the Government? 

 Mr Byers; No, I am not saying 'or the Government'. If there were a decision of the Federal Executive Council that would put it, in my view, beyond dispute. It could, I would have thought, both assert the secrecy which the Constitution confers, in my understanding, and it could remove the obligation by waiver, if it wished. The point I am endeavouring to make is that I do not think the Prime Minister can do it in his own right. 
But you consider he can claim it of his own right in relation to public servants? 

 Mr Byers; Of course he is not the only one. 
-The Ministers too. 

 Mr Byers; Yes, that is right. 
Let me ask you a question with regard to the extent and ambit of this privilege which you claim. I turn to your letter to the  President  of the Senate wherein you say: 
In addition the right of the Crown or what is legally the same thing, the Executive, to claim privilege is clear enough. The accepted practice as mentioned in paragraphs 127 (as to the House of Commons) and 136 (as to the Courts) in  Parliamentary Paper 1972 No. 168 Parliamentary CommitteesPowers over and Protection afforded to Witnesses  by  Senator the  Honourable I. J. Greenwood, Q.C. and  Mr R.  J. Ellicott. Q.C. is that this privilege extends to opinions of the Law Officers. The principle applies whether they be written or oral. The Crown has claimed its privilege. As one of its Law Officers, I may not consistently with my constitutional duty intentionally act in opposition to its claim. 
What I am putting to you in regard to that paragraph is that that is not a true reflection, particularly of paragraph 136 referred to in that paper. Let me give you the reason why I put this to you. In that paragraph in the paper by  Senator Greenwood  and  Mr Ellicott  there is a statement that some documents shall fall into a class which of their nature would be privileged. It refers to law officers' opinions. That, I would suggest to you, would seem to support your contention, but have you not ignored the last part of that paragraph which states: 
Where, however, documents do not fall within classes such as these, it is open to the court to decline to be bound by the Minister's certificate and consider the documents themselves to see whether the withholding of them is necessary in the public interest having in mind the public interest of ensuring the proper administration of justice. 
What I am putting to you is that, in relation to all the events leading up to any opinion you might give and in the event of questions relating to what information you were given before you made an opinion, that would not come within the area of principle as outlined in those paragraphs. 

 Mr Byers; All I can say, with great respect, is that 2 lawyers disagree. 
asked the Minister represent  ing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister, in the context of the excellent Report of the Youth Say Project conducted by the National Youth Council of Australia entitled 'The Recreational Priorities of Australian Young People', considering programs designed to provide what a large consensus of Australian youth requires, that is, community meeting places run by young people on non-competitive and unstructured lines. 
To what extent will State governments be involved in these programs. 
-After that pathetic and miserable catalogue of irrelevancies in this debate it is obviously essential to remind the House of the matters we are debating. We are concerned with and are debating a motion which deals with the massive cover up which the Government has created and which we have observed this week. The Opposition calls on the Senate to refer to the Privileges Committee the matters which have been the subject of frustration here this week. Let me remind honourable senators that this sitting of Parliament came about because the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  called together the House of Representatives so that it could discuss the matters. Let me use his own words, of course without his inflections, in the opening sentence of that debate. He said: 
This House has been recalled so that once and for all the people of Australia may hear and judge any allegations of impropriety, illegality, malpractice or malfeasance against the Government or any Minister. 
Of course, he called together the House over which he had control, in which he had the numbers and in which he knew he could bring a certain number of selected documents before honourable members and then send them away. 
But it was the Opposition in the Senate chamber that brought this chamber into the picture because it recognised that honourable senators have the same rights of investigation as have members of the House of Representatives. We have found an attempt by the Government to frustrate that investigation, an attempt which is temporarily successful. But we will not allow the matter to go away. It is like Watergate, which kept on and on, and ultimately the facts came out. In the same speech the Prime Minister went on to say: 
The inquisition by innuendo is over. This is the tribunal in which the Opposition as much as the Government will be judged- in the highest court, by the jury of the people. We are all on trial now. 
I do not accept the latter sentence. That was a piece of hyperbole which is not to be accepted. Then he said: 
There is a special and overriding reason why this Parliament is the proper place. 
We on this side do not say that it is the best place because we have consistently maintained that the proper place for investigation is an impartial source, namely, a royal commission. But we have said that this is the second best place- that matters can be investigated in a House of Parliament. What the Government has done is to see, as far as it can, that there is no such investigation. The very demand of the Prime Minister was a piece of hypocrisy. It has been demonstrated in the actions of the Government in stopping witnesses from giving evidence. Today we have heard further examples of this. We have of course had some admission on the part of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  because we know now that the money was to be used to buy back the farm, to buy back the properties of Australia, with all the alarming effects that that would have had on our economy arid our future. 
Nonetheless the Government said that that was the temporary purpose of the loan. If anybody in this country believes that now I cannot imagine who it would be. Nobody in his right senses would say that it was a temporary purpose but everybody knows that it was described as a temporary purpose for the reason of tricking the States and of avoiding the Loan Council. On the oral advice of former  Senator Murphy  that it was probably all right, which we can still hear him saying today, the Government proceeded with this mad scheme. It was such a mad scheme that this Government could be described as a Marxist government- not a Karl Marx government but a Groucho Marx government. The Marx Brothers over yonder are turning the Parliament and the Government into a farce. We would laugh about that if it were not for the fact that as Australians we know that we are all suffering by it. 
Even today in this Parliament consistency is not to be found in the record of the case which is put before us by the Government. In opening the debate the Leader of the Government in the Senate said the Opposition was clouding the issue and that the people do not know what the circumstances are. Yet only a couple of nights ago in all the glory of television  Senator James  McClelland said: 
The people have been told all they need to know, all they ought to know. 
Let the Government make up its mind. Do the people know all that they need to know or do they not? Sometimes  Senator James  McClelland speaks to us in an honest and truthful fashion, saying what he really believes. He said that the Government wants to see that the people get only the knowledge that the Government determines is useful for them. Of course that is the first step on the road to dictatorship. 
We remind ourselves that this resolution deals with the powers and rights of the Senate not because we want to seek them for any personal reasons but because we recognise that we have obligations to maintain the position of the Senate as a protector of the people of this country. Under section 49 of the Constitution we have in the Senate and in the House of Representatives the privileges as they existed in the House of Commons in 1901. The House of Commons was noted for many generations as the grand inquest of the realm. We inherited that right as an inquest of the realm and it is our obligation to try to carry it out. If we look at  Mr Odgers'  book, which is the authority on this matter, we find that at page 566 he says that the House of Commons, amongst other powers, had the right to institute inquiries and to require the attendance of witnesses and the production of documents. Does it not follow from that that it must be an effective right to do those things? It is no good just having a charade whereby witnesses are called and refuse to answer, because that power was essential to the House of Commons and is essential to and must be maintained by- as is stated in this resolution- this House of the Parliament. 
I wish to refer to another document of significance in this regard. I refer to the Kerr report of the Commonwealth Administrative Review Committee in 1971. That is an authoritative document and we all know of the authoritative nature of the man who was the first member of that committee. Paragraph 343 of that document deals with the disclosure of documents with reference to courts, but does anyone doubt or challenge that the same rights apply to each of the Houses of Parliament? The paragraph states in part: 
The position as to disclosure of official documents before the ordinary courts has been defined by the House of Lords decision in  Conway  v.  Rimmer  (1968) A.C.910. Broadly speaking, the view was expressed that the administration of justice should not be frustrated by the withholding of public documents. Where the possible harm to the nation or to the Public Service is so grave that no other interest should prevail over it then, of course, a document should be withheld. But where there is a clash between the public interest in nondisclosure because of possible harm to the nation or to the Public Service and the public interest in disclosure for the fair administration of justice then the court must balance the two conflicting interests. 
As a House of Parliament we are entitled to balance that interest and we are justified in saying that we should make this decision and that it is part of our powers. It is not for the Government to tell us what shall be in the public interest and what shall not be in the public interest. So there is at this stage a cover-up operation in regard to the facts of those vital charges that have been made and have been repeated and detailed this afternoon by  Senator Wright.  These are matters of the gravest importance concerning the good order and government of this country. They should not be fobbed off or kept from the people's knowledge. 
-Senator, I could not tell you anything because I am afraid you would not notice and you would not understand. If you listened to speeches this afternoon - 
No, I am not crawling back to be pre-selected. I have long since been pre-selected. So do not worry about that; do not worry about me. 
You can save your voice because I have no intention of wasting my time by replying to you. 
Let us see why there is a cover-up and why these things are being done. Three things seem to be in decay today so far as this Government is concerned. One is the open government claim which helped it get to office. Open-ended government is all one can call it now; everything falls out at the bottom. What has happened to open government? What has happened to these ideas that there should be a freedom for public servants to make comment? We have seen now that public servants are not to have that freedom when it is essential in regard to mighty important matters. 
In regard to freedom of information, do honourable senators recall that only a few weeks ago I asked  Senator James  McClelland what had happened to the freedom of information Bill. He answered, again in his honest way: 'I do not know. I have been asking this same question in my own Party. I will find out'. Has he found out? No, he has not. Why? Because today we have heard from  Senator Button  that the Government is backtracking on these questions of open government and freedom of information. He tells us that a public servant should be free to be frank and to give his advice and he should not be brought forward and have to give evidence. So we can see a return to the pre-open government, freedom of information period. We have been told occasionally in debates in the last few days that we should rely on answers to questions being given in this Parliament. Any person who has been here for 5 minutes realises that in fact questions get very little information and that Ministers find it very easy to fob off any question with a piece of general knowledge. 
I will give you an example,  Senator. 
It is clear that questions are dealt with in this way. Only a few weeks ago I asked a question- it had been on the notice paper for some period- as to the number of staff that Ministers have. I finally got an answer to this question giving me figures up to December 1 973; I asked for figures right up to the present day. Obviously the answer was of no use and I have complained about it. This is the way in which members will be treated. It is no answer to a real inquiry on this subject to rely on questions in the Parliament. 
I make the contention that there are at least 4 false claims in respect of Executive privilege which ought to be investigated by the Privileges Committee. The first of these is the statement and the claim that there is privilege in the Executive Council proceedings of 13 December 1974. 
The documents in respect of that have already been public knowledge for some considerable time. They have been tabled. They have been dealt with. Today  Senator Wright  referred to some statements which  Mr Connor  had made in the debate in the House of Representatives.  Mr Connor  talked about how his name was inserted in the Executive Council minute and what the discussions were. He understood the minute itself was drafted jointly by officers of the Treasury, the Attorney-General's Department and so on. Are we expected to accept his version, his ideas and his comments on the dealings in regard to these Executive Council minutes and not to investigate further things? Is this a right only of government, or is it a right which the people have and ought to exercise through us? I say that this should be shown to be no ground for witnesses refusing to answer. 
The second matter- I will not expand on this because it was mentioned by me yesterday in questioning- is the reliance which the Government has placed in the last couple of days on the excellent document which  Senator Greenwood  and  Mr Ellicott  have produced. I am indeed touched by the way in which the Government clings to the opinions of  Sir Robert  Menzies and  Senator Greenwood  whom I did not always think the Government held in such high regard. I am glad to see that change of heart. That document has been entirely distorted and misused by  Senator Button  and  Senator James  McClelland. There is not time to read at length the relevant parts of it. The Government has taken not the descriptions which the learned authors of that document made in respect of the existing law but their suggestions at the end as to what ought to be the situation. So they distort, for the purpose of causing a complete deception in relation to the article. I wish to read paragraph 122 of the document written by  Senator Greenwood  and  Mr Ellicott.  It states: 
As stated earlier each House of the Commonwealth Parliament may be regarded as exercising both a legislative and an advisory function. For these purposes it can inquire into the administration of Departments of State and into any aspect of the execution of laws of the Parliament. To exercise these functions it will, from time to time, need the evidence of informed public servants and of relevant documents. It may also need this evidence and relevant documents in relation to proposed legislation not directly connected with or aimed at departmental administration. 
The document stated further that the right to call for documents was unquestioned. I wish to quote paragraph 1 38, which has not been read by those who seek to rely on this document. It states: 
The power of each House of the Commonwealth Parliament to call for documents and oral evidence from the Executive is as wide as that of the Commons at 1901 whose power, although not exercised to the full in practice, was at least in theory unlimited. 
Honourable senators opposite should not try to distort the situation by putting the opinions of the authors as to whether the certificate of the Attorney-General should be conclusive. One may not agree with that. They were matters of opinion. Honourable senators opposite should have quoted from the document the matters which stated the law. 
The third thing that I say is a false claim of privilege relates to the law officers and their opinions. Today  Senator Button  once more went through the same dreary track. Nobody is suggesting that the law officers' opinions and their surrounding documents generally should be required by this Parliament to be produced, but there are many matters as to whether the facts were given to the law officers and when advice was sought. There are many other surrounding facts which ought to be the subject of investigation and on which one could then judge the decisions of the Government in accordance with advice. The fourth matter is the constant attempt to obscure the distinction between policy .questions, which the Government originally indicated it did not expect to be answered in this place, and questions of fact for public servants that are not policy questions. The Senate would easily have been able to distinguish those things. It has been denied that opportunity by the unilateral action of the Government. 
I support  Senator Withers  and the other speakers who have said that a royal commission is the right and proper body to deal with this matter. That is an opinion which you,  Mr President,  have expressed and which  Mr Hawke  expressed when he returned to Australia. They were proper judgments on the way in which this matter should be handled. It is not too late now. Unfortunately, the newspapers have had a slightly schizophrenic view in recent days. They have not noted altogether the fact that here we are endeavouring to do what is best in the circumstances. We call, as the  Age  does today, for the appointment of a royal commission. That newspaper stated today: 
This means nothing more or less than honesty with the people, for only by being frank and honest can the Government start to re-assert its right to govern. 
That is the position. The Government, by its cover-up, is endeavouring to avoid these matters coming out. It is not able to govern in those circumstances. I suggest that it is high time the Labor Party back benchers in this chamber realised these facts and realised that we cannot walk out of this morass, as  Senator Wriedt  described it today. We must step into it. We have seen it developing on the other side. We must not flinch from our duty. We in the Opposition will continue to fight for these things. 

 - Mr President, on a point of order, I have observed since the examination has been proceeding of  Mr Karidis  that, before he has asked to refer to his counsel, on every occasion his counsel has pointed to the writing on the paper in front of him. My point of order is that he is here to answer questions. When he wants to refer to his counsel he is entitled to do so. What I am submitting is that what he is doing now in relation to  Senator Greenwood's  questions and what happened repeatedly during  Senator Hall's  questions is that his counsel has pointed to matters written on that paper.  Mr President,  I do not know but I think you should see it. Then  Mr Karidis  has asked to refer to his counsel. I submit that he should not do that. 
I present the following petition from 1 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
1 ) That Parliament should reject the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance office. 
That while there is a need to establish in Australia a Natural Disaster Fund to provide compensation for property damage and other losses resulting from disasters such as earthquakes, floods and cyclones, such a Fund can be established, as in other countries, using the medium of the existing private enterprise insurance offices. 
That a plan for such a Fund was submitted to the Treasury in October 1974. 
That no reasons for the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office (other than the desire to provide non-commercial disaster insurance and Australian Government competition with private enterprise) have been given by the Government. 
That there is already intense competition between the existing 45 life assurance offices and between over 260 general insurance companies now operating in Australia, and that further competition from a Government Office would only be harmful. 
That the insurance industry is already faced with 
the effects of inflation, 
increased taxation on life assurance offices, 
the effects of recent natural disasters, 
other legislative measures already iri train or in prospect by the Government, e.g. the National Compensation Bill, a National Superannuation Plan and improved Commonwealth Public Service Superannuation. 
That as taxpayers your petitioners are greatly concerned at the huge costs (far more than the $2m initial capital and loan funds which it is proposed will be allocated) of establishing an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will reject the Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 

 -Mr President, as the petition exceeds 250 words in length and I should like it to be read, I ask that leave be given for it to be read by the  Clerk. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I draw the Minister's attention to the failure to invite  Senator Neville  Bonner, the only Aboriginal member of this Parliament, to the weekend ceremony at Wattie Creek when lands were officially handed over to the Aboriginal inhabitants. Was this failure due to inadvertence or did it represent deliberate Government policy? 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister detail those measures introduced by the Government since December 1 972 which have added to the development of 'open government'. 
Will the Minister describe and identify any action taken by the Government to create easier public access to official records. 
In particular, will the Minister state what has been done to give the Australian public greater access to the Australian Archives and what is intended to be done to improve the accessibility of the Archives. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) In view of the attempts of the Prime Minister to have the Minierals Research Laboratories and Solar Energy Studies Unit removed from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization to the Department of Minerals and Energy, why is the Government pursuing this policy of vandalism to the detriment of the nation and the future of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization. 
What power and what influence does the Minister for Minerals and Energy have in relation to the Prime Minister that he is able to effect this dissection of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization. 
What answer does the Minister make to the legal, moral and policy objections to the decision detailed by  Senator Missen  in his speech on the adjournment debate on 1 1 June 1975. 
Will the Government reconsider its decision in the light of the representations made by officers of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization and other responsible persons. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I refer to a complaint which appeared in the Melbourne  'Sun'  of 4 August last from a farmer in Penola, South Australia, that on applying for assistance under the Regional Employment Development scheme he was advised by a local council officer that his council had received instructions to place farmers at the bottom of the list. I ask: Were such instructions given by the Minister or officers administering the RED scheme, and what was the nature of such instructions? If so, on what basis and for what reason did such discrimination operate against farmers who may have little or no income under existing economic conditions? Does the Government propose to continue any such discriminatory practices against farmers in employment assistance schemes operating in this year? 
-We are resuming the second reading debate on the Purchasing Commission Bill. Already in this debate, if I may call it that, we have had a somewhat extraordinary situation. We have heard speeches from  Senator Cotton  and  Senator Maunsell  who have expressed clearly the objections which the Opposition has to this Bill and the belief which we have that it is a Bill of such dangerous proportions and containing such dangerous propositions that it should not receive a second reading. But we have not heard anything from the Government. Sitting across from us are the wilting lilies of the Government. We would have hoped that Government senators would have been revived by the recess. I assure  Senator Chaney  who is interjecting that when I refer to lilies I am not talking about the great cricketer; I am talking about the flowers. I do not know whether the Government's pitch has been dug up or how we are to explain its reason for not coming out to bat today. What is clear is that apparently no supporter of the Government proposes to defend a Bill which the Government considers of. great importance. The Bill will be left to some Government Minister to deal with in reply to the second reading debate. 
In that context it is perhaps worth recording that when this Bill was debated in the House of Representatives in May  Mr Lionel  Bowen who was then the Minister in charge of the Bill had this to say: 
It is very urgent that this Bill becomes1' law. We want to have it through this chamber this evening. We want to make the point here and now that this Purchasing Commission is vital for the efficient organisation and purchasing of all Government stores and equipment. 
To this  Mr Killen  then replied in his usual clear and gentle way: 'Rubbish'. I think that 'rubbish' was the correct description. In the House of 
Representatives we saw the extraordinary situation of a Bill being guillotined through its various stages without adequate debate. Now we have the opportunity for adequate debate on this Bill in this chamber. As  Senator Cotton  pointed out yesterday the Commission which the Bill seeks to establish would have the task of making purchases valued at something up to $20 billion. The control of those purchases would rest in the hands of one large Commission which it is proposed would handle these matters. One has only to look at the essential proposals of the Bill which propose to establish a commission called the Purchasing Commission to ascertain that it will be given functions not only of advising the Government on matters of policy, procedures and practices to be followed but also to effect the procurement of goods, the actual purchase of goods, on behalf of departments. In fact, it will act on behalf of nearly all of the departments of government. Consequently it is, as I have said, a most significant Bill and one for which one would expect Government senators to have some justification to put before this House and before the people of this country. 
The reason may be that they find it indefensible, but whatever is the reason I think that the silence of Government senators is significant. One finds that this Bill is based essentially on the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Government Procurement Policy which was delivered in May 1974 and known generally as the Scott Committee report. The Bill is not entirely based upon that report; a number of recommendations made by that Committee are not followed and a number of others are left to the regulations which would be made under this Bill if it were adopted. That in itself gives rise to some condemnation because in fact the important questions that are covered should be covered in the Bill and should not be left to regulations. If we look, as we should, at the Scott Committee report, we find that it contains nothing new. There is nothing new about procurement and purchasing policies in this country. These things have been the concern of government, of course, for a long time. In paragraph 4.10 of the Scott report the following is said about existing government policies: 
Australian Governments have long subscribed to a competitive procurement system with public tendering as a basic feature. There has been a general principle that the 'lowest suitable tender' should be accepted and that some clear justification is needed to depart from this approach. In accordance with this approach (and in support of it) the basis of Australian Government procurement policy has been explicitly stated, at least since 1 96 1 , as being 'to obtain the best value for money spent' and it has generally been accepted that this objective can be attained through the open tender system. 
The report further points out that there are exceptions in respect of small purchases in relation to which tenders may not be required, and that there are Treasury regulations which set out the way in which such purchases should be acquired. So it is not a matter of the country not having policies in this respect and not having, in certain cases, exceptions where the Ministers have a discretion not to carry out such procedures. 
Perhaps while one is referring to existing policies in this regard one might point out the statements made by the Scott Commission in dealing with preference for Australian ownership and control, because some changes occurred in that area when this present Government came into office. In paragraph 4.44 the Scott Committee report states: 
In December 1972, the incoming Government introduced a further element into purchasing policy. Following discussions between government departments, held to ensure that future purchasing arrangements for the Australian Government would take into account the question of Australian ownership and control, the Prime Minister directed that Australian Government contracts should be awarded to an Australia-owned company, in cases where Australian and overseas-owned firms submit tenders which meet specifications and are equal in respect of price and availability. 
In view of the fact that one of the objectives sought in this Bill is to introduce a number of policies that would be implemented under government purchasing programs, the Committee, in paragraph 4.45 , went on to say this: 
This directive - 
That is in regard to Australian ownership-  does not seem to have been as effective as might have been intended as there are few cases in which price and availability are equal. It has also raised problems in definition as between 'ownership' and 'control' and, in addition, it needs to be applied in conjunction with the existing Advising Department machinery which is based upon the Australian content in goods offered to the Government. 
I point out that, even if the Government were to have this Bill passed and were to introduce policies, there are difficulties in their implementation and, of course, there are grave doubts as to the wisdom of introducing and using such power as this Bill would give to implement various other social and political policies of the Government. In the course of its considerations the Scott Committee summarised the criticisms that have been made of existing government procedures in regard to purchasing. When one considers the mighty powerful nature of this Bill, the nature of the criticisms made in the recommendations of and the references to that Committee are significant. In paragraph 5.2 of its report the Committee says: 
In general it could be said that there were relatively few criticisms in departmental submissions either of the policies or the administrative arrangements presently in existence. 
So from the departments at least there was little suggestion that there was need for substantial change. In paragraph 5.3 the Committee said:  5.3 One of the most common criticisms made in submissions to this Committee concerned the lack of public knowledge of current purchasing policies. It was also pointed out in a number of submissions that there was no one focal point in the government departmental organisation from which authoritative information about current policies could be obtained or to which any disputed matter could be referred. Contractors dealing with a number of different departments indicated their impression that there was a diversity in interpretation of Government policy which they found confusing. Some departments also emphasised the need for better definition of policies and for some authoritative coordinating body to interpret policies. 
One will note that these statements and criticisms would not require the setting up of an all powerful commission. They are suggestions of lack of communication. They show the need for better knowledge of policies and do not show the need to direct purchasing to the hands of one overwhelming and overpowering government department. I suggest therefore that the report does not contain a great deal that justifies the conclusions which the Committee arrived at or the measures which this Bill seeks to implement. 
To finalise my reference to this report, when it came to the arguments for and against the centralising of the purchasing function, which is the essence of this Bill, the Committee pointed out at page 68 of its report that whilst there was almost universal support for a central group to establish and co-ordinate purchasing principles, there was only a measure- and that was its word, measure'- of support for centralising the purchasing functions. I do not know how big that measure was but obviously it could not have been very great for such a word to have been used as it was. At page 68 of the report the Committee summarises arguments, which I find of compelling worth, against a centralising purchasing function. The report states: 
Those against the concept centred their objections around the adverse factors likely to result from separating the user and the supplier. They advanced the view that something would be lost if a separating purchasing function were to be interposed between the desirable close association of user and supplier. More specifically, it was argued: First, a central agency might not be sufficiently responsive to the needs of operating departments. Secondly, it would lengthen the purchasing cycle and result in an increase in stockholdings and therefore expense. Thirdly, it might not respond fast enough when changes were necessary or in emergency situations. Fourthly, it would be more likely to add to 'red tape' than to eliminate it, as it was suggested that extra staff and paper work would be necessary. Fifthly, there would be a division of responsibilities which might increase the number of disputes between departments and so interfere with, rather than promote smooth working. Sixthly, in the case of Defence procurement there could be objections on security grounds. Finally the management of complex projects would be made more difficult, as Defence has argued, and that the lines of communication need to be shortened and improved. 
I know that those arguments were not persuasive so far as the Committee was concerned. The members of the Committee rejected them. I do not know for what reason they did so. It is not clear on the evidence or from the report why they rejected the arguments. So far as I am concerned the arguments I have just quoted are very strong and compelling reasons for our not wanting this centralised purchasing function. I am not satisfied that the Scott Committee was justified in arriving at its conclusions, nor am I satisfied that the Bill is justified. 
I turn to three of what, in my view, are the main objections to this dangerous Bill and to the reasons why we should feel compelled to reject it at this stage. In the first place, there is the danger of the creation of a great economic and centralised power operating in this community and operating with great power and influence over the private sector of the economy. We all know the power and control that an organisation such as the Myer Emporium, which has a very considerable amount of purchasing to do, has over its suppliers. We know the control that it can have over the supplier's prices and the demands it can make. These are demands which the supplier must comply with because he is so dependent upon such a company. How much greater would be the power of an organisation with up to $20 billion to pay for work in a year? What an effect it can have upon those who supply the organisation. I think this is a pretty compelling reason for opposing this measure. Even the Scott report alleges that the amount that would be controlled would be just on 23 per cent of the gross national expenditure in any one year. This represents a very heavy power in the area. 
The Scott report points out also that there was a great lack of* statistics in this area and that it was difficult for it to come to conclusions. This was indicated in paragraph 6.9 of the Committee's report and is another reason why one should have care before entering into a commitment of this nature. 
In addition to that, and again emphasising the power which would be involved in this measure, is the power in clause 1 7 to which reference has already been made in this debate. Clause 1 7 of the Bill, after all other things have been said, proceeds to state the following about the ministerial power in operating and controlling the Commission: 
The Minister may, by writing under his hand, give directions to the Commission with respect to the exercise of its powers or the performance of its functions, either generally or with respect to a particular case. 
This is a most sweeping power and would be used no doubt, so that Government policies could be forced upon the Commission when needed. This is a power which should not be placed in the hands of one centralised body. 
The second danger, as I see it, is the fact that the use of this power over procurement and purchasing will be used under the Bill for the promotion of government political and social policies. This is clear from the statements that have been made and it is obvious that we can expect the use of clause 17 and other powers in this Bill to give effect to Labor Party policies in the following areas: Urban and regional development, worker participation, compulsory unionism, compensation and insurance, import policies, environmental control, standards and efficiency in research, industry restructuring and so forth. One can imagine the use that could be made of such a power. This point is emphasised in the submission which was made by the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia in respect of this Bill. It stated in paragraphs 3.11 and 3. 12 of its submission: 
However, industry does object to the thought that the Government should use its purchasing power to enforce such matters as pollution control, industrial efficiency and safety standards in industry. In particular, industry objects to, in fact rejects entirely, any thought that the Government should use its purchasing power to enforce upon suppliers economic and social aspects of employment and the application of labour code. 
Desirable objectives though these and other matters may be, they are not objectives which should be pursued by any Government through its purchasing policies. There are dangers, in any event, in attempting to achieve too much by use of procurement as an instrument of policy. The greater the number of policy objectives aimed at, the more difficult it is to avoid conflict between them. And the introduction of socio-economic policies, as enumerated earlier, would result in utter chaos and jeopardise completely the basic and fundamental concept that the aim of all Government procurement should be aimed at receiving best value for money. 
One can see that best value for money might go altogether under this Bill and be supplanted by a number of policies which the Government desired to exploit and thought that this economic weapon could enable it to achieve. There are even powers within this Bill, under clause 9, to declare, by regulation, the policies that are to be adopted. Under clause 15 power is given to the Minister to demand information from anybody, including other departments. Perhaps it seems strange, but clause 45 even confers power to impose penalties- no doubt even penalties upon another department- if information is refused. This may appear to be far fetched but I think it is an obvious power which is allowed under this Bill to the Minister who has control of this great weapon of economic policy. 
The third danger in this Bill, as I see it, is in taking the responsibility away from departments that are responsible to Parliament and putting that responsibility in the hands of a Commission. A department has to explain to the Parliament in its estimates why it needs certain things, why it wants to achieve certain objectives and why it wants to buy certain articles. Now we will find that, whilst the department still does that, in fact the real decisions will be made outside its ranks; they will be made by the Purchasing Commission. Of course, the Commission will report annually to Parliament and it will give information. But it is a mistake to impose this Commission between the user and the supplier and it is a mistake to take away from the departments their real responsibility. 
That this is so is demonstrated to an extent by the fact that, for no real reason that is given, 3 departments- the Department of Housing and Construction, the Department of the Media and the Department of Services and Property- are excluded from the operation of this Bill. For some reason it is thought that they are sufficiently able to control their purchasing policies but, on the other hand, that all the other departments ought to be included. I suggest that the danger which perhaps caused the Government to exclude those 3 departments without giving proper information or explanation is a reason for excluding all departments from the power which this Bill would give. 
I suggest that the Bill should be rejected and that whatever changes are needed- there is no doubt that changes are needed and that there always will be changes occurring as a result of the success or failure of operations over the years- can be achieved quite successfully without going to the extent of creating a Commission which then has this centralised power of purchasing. 
It might be suggested that the advantages that need to be obtained could be obtained by a new approach in regard to procurement in which each department could act independently, under the guidelines and supervision of a co-ordinating body primarily concerned with purchasing policy. It would be a body or a committee of some sort, and not a commission. It would be nothing grand, but it would see that people knew what were common policies and what were the desirable objectives. It would be a body that could see, for example, that the documents used by different departments were, as far as possible, standardised so that they could be known and understood by the business community. It would be a body which could help in promotion and the education of persons in the departments as to suitable purchasing policies, but not one with the overwhelming power provided in this Bill. It would be a co-ordinating body but not a controlling body. The remarks  Senator Cotton  made yesterday contained an indication that when the Opposition comes to power it certainly will be considering the improvement of procurement and purchasing policies; but it will not do so in such a way as to create this great monolith with all the power that would be involved in this proposed Commission. 
I draw attention in this respect to one other point which the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia made in paragraph 3.5 of its submission in regard to the Purchasing Commission Bill. It stated: 
ACMA is firmly of the opinion that there needs to be a central body for establishing and co-ordinating policies, procedures and practices but ACMA is equally firm in its opposition to a centralised purchasing function. It is not the multiplicity of purchasing authorities which is the root cause of the present inadequacies of the Australian Government's purchasing policy but rather the fragmentary application of that policy among departments. Indeed, as the report, -  that is the Scott report-  at paragraph 5.6, rightly recognises,'. . . among departments, policies did not always appear to be applied in the same way and that some statutory authorities and agencies appear not to be required to follow government purchasing policy'. 
I trust that we will not be led, by the deficiencies in these detailed areas, to swallow what is proposed in this Bill. I believe that the Bill is not amendable because it proposes the establishment of an institution that would be dangerous to the economic future of this country. Of course, it is a body which accords with a number of other proposals which this Government makes to centralise and to sweep away powers so that the private sector will be thoroughly controlled by the Government. I trust that the Bill will be rejected, but I trust that this will not be the end in any way of consideration of improving the purchasing policies of the Government. I trust that we will not make the mistake of swallowing the establishment of this body in accepting this Bill and taking action which is dangerous for the future of this country. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (3.20)- I want to make only a few observations about the Purchasing Commission Bill. I state at the very beginning that I also am opposed to it. Yesterday afternoon when  Senator Cotton,  who led for the Opposition in this debate, was speaking I made the observation by way of interjection, to which he replied, that I thought it was extraordinary that a purchasing agent or a purchasing commission should be the body to lay down the specifications for which the procurement was desired.  Mr President,  let me say in a modest way that in my early days I was a personal assistant to the purchasing agents for Holden 's Motor Body Builders- that was in the 1920s- later on I was the purchasing agent for General Motors. I do not know what would have been the position if, in the operation of that industry, when the engineering department or the production department, through the supply department, placed an order with the purchasing agent- I am speaking off the top of my head- for a crown wheel for a Chevrolet motor car, the purchasing agent had said that it was difficult to make such a crown wheel, that we could not harden crown wheels in Australia up to that specification and that the departments would have to take crown wheels that could be hardened up to the capacity of the Australian industry. I suppose that the purchasing agent, under those circumstances, would have been sackedand properly so, too. Embedded in this Bill, of course, is a concept that the Purchasing Commission shall be responsible in a very substantial degree for the laying down of some of the specifications of the goods to be procured - 
I am sorry that  Senator Bishop,  the Postmaster-General, is not in the Senate chamber. 1 am sure that the 2 commissions that operate under his direction will not be very happy if, for example, the Purchasing Commission lays down the type of equipment to be used by the telecommunications people. 
There is much to be said for the Department of Defence viewpoint that the user has to live with the product and that this factor may be more important in the case of defence than in perhaps any other area. The Department of Defence has suggested an approach whereby some of the objections to placing defence purchasing under the Department of Defence can be met. This Committee - 
That is the Scott Committee-  gave the most careful consideration to the whole subject before it decided to recommend that the purchase of all defence requirements above the tender threshhold should not bc excluded from the scope of its recommendations. 
Later on I will give some illustrations of how this operates, but the important thing is to observe the words 'the equipment that the user has to live with'. That is why I drew your attention to some of the problems that you,  Mr President,  as a young officer of the Royal Australian Air Force, had to deal with while flying an aircraft. The purchasing agent or Purchasing Commission in this context will designate to the Department of Defence through the procurement authority the type of equipment that has to be used. This will not be done upon the basis of the user's requirements and the efficiency of the equipment which the defence people would want for their services, but simply on the basis that the Commission thinks it would be good for Australian industry if a piece of equipment were used which was produced in Australia with no acknowledgement as to its efficacy or its use. So on that ground I oppose this Bill utterly. If there is one thing that causes the men in the Navy, the Army or Air Force in the face of the enemy the most concern it is a lack of trust in their weapons. With my experience in war I can cite many such instances. Therefore the defence people have to have some more control over the procurement of their equipment. 
On page 7 of the Scott report there appears a 4-line paragraph headed 'World War II'. It reads: 
The Contract Board remained part of the Department of Defence until 1939 when the supply and production activities of that Department were transferred to the newlycreated Department of Supply and Development. The Contract Board was reconstituted under the Supply and Development Act 1939 and Regulations. 
I read that paragraph because it is the only observation in the whole of that report on the lessons that had to be learned from the war procurement of 1939-1945- a bare 4 lines. Yet the lessons in government and the lessons for the Department of Defence and for those who were involved- whether they liked it or not- in the war of 1939-1945 were a searing experience in the context of equipment. I recollect one example. The Army was ordered against its vehement protests to take delivery of a certain number of 25-pounder guns manufactured in Australia. The reason that the Army did not want to take these guns was quite simple. On proofing the breech blocks started to blow out. If anything scares hell out of a gunner more than anything else it is to get a breech burst. The reason that the breech blocks were not as effective as they should have been was that the Australian manufacturing involved by the Directorate of War Production was not of an order and nature of technology to be able to make a breech block up to the design requirements of the Australian Army. The Royal Australian Air Force had to accept aircraft produced by one of the echelons of Australian war production. I cannot recall the name of the aircraft.  Senator Cotton  was in the Air Force. The aircraft had a couple of Spitfire wings gummed on it. 
While reading this report one finds there is no reference to the actual experience of procurement in war. That is the nitty gritty of the whole business. As it was found out after the war the Contract Board which was taken away from the Department of Defence was not able to handle the procurement requirements of the defence forces from 1939 to 1945. It was then reinserted into the area of the Department of Supply where the defence people at least had a close liaison. The Department of Supply was charged with the procurement, technology, development, engineering know-how and a great deal of the design of equipment used for the defence forces in war time. It is proposed to go back over the tracks and to set up a vast bureaucracy for the control of defence force procurement. 
One other matter disturbs me even more. I have noticed in this Government over the last two and a half years a constant thrust in three or four directions at once, but every thrust has been interconnecting. Honourable senators who care to look at the Defence Force Re-organisation Bill which is in another place at present will find that the whole of the requirement for the defence force will be embodied in civilian control inside the Department of Defence. That civilian control obviously will be responsible to a civilian secretary of defence and will be under the control of a Defence Minister who will be under pressure from the  Chairman  of the Purchasing Commission, as a purchaser, laying down its own specifications to say that that is the equipment that the defence Services have to take. That is not good enough for me. Either we abolish the defence forces altogether on the basis that the United Nations will look after us, and then we can disband the defence Services, or we are to have a defence force which is maintained at the highest level with the equipment that is desirable for those people in the defence forces and that means sailors, soldiers and airmen who are charged with the defence of this country. On that basis alone- the proposed taking over of the defence procurement- I will not countenance any further discussion on this Bill. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. I refer to a question which I asked of the Minister on 28 May 1975 relating to the proposed Freedom of Information Bill, the machinations of an interdepartmental committee in relation to the Bill and to the Bill's disappearance from public view. The Minister then assured me that he had been raising the same question in the inner councils of his own Party and expressed the hope that I would soon see the Bill. After this further delay, I ask the Minister whether he has been successful in his inquiries, whether he can give any information as to the fate of the Bill and whether it is to be seen in its original form or in some emasculated form? 
-Thank you,  Mr President,  and thank you for your statement this morning. My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Has the Minister recently received or seen representations from an organisation named 'The Council to Stop Offensive Advertising Incorporated ' and /or from other organisations complaining about the failure of the Government to take action against the type of Press advertising of films which highlights and applauds promiscuous sexual activity, debauchery and violence? Does the Government have any power or opportunity to take action on such complaints? If it has, does it have any intention of doing so? 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Australian Government receive an offer from the Premier of Victoria,  Mr Hamer,  to administer the funds to be made available to Victoria under the Regional Employment Development Scheme to create new employment; if so, was it an offer to do so without any administrative cost to the Australian Government. 
Have funds to overcome unemployment been administered in Victoria for some years in this manner and in co-operation between the Federal and State Government; if so, has this system operated successfully. 
Will the Australian Government, in the interests of efficiency and economy, reconsider its refusal of the Premier of Victoria's offer. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. What specialist training courses are currently available for teachers in Aboriginal schools or schools with large Aboriginal enrolments? Which of these courses are supported by Australian Government funds? What steps, if any, are being taken by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to ensure that all teachers of Aboriginal children are specially trained for the task? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware of the recent reported statement by  Dr Gray  of the Victorian Anti-Cancer Council pointing out that efforts to discourage young people from smoking are failing because of the effect of glamorous advertising of certain brands of cigarettes which are now heavily purchased by the young? In view of this fact and the established link between lung cancer and heavy smoking, how does the Australian Government justify the savage reduction of Government contributions to anti-smoking campaign funds in this year's Budget from $500,000 to $100,000? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Services and Property. I refer to an advertisement appearing in the Melbourne  Age  on 4 September 1975 under the heading 'Office of the Purchasing Commission- Department of Services and Property' and detailing and requesting tenders for substantial equipment required for the Purchasing Commission. In view of the defeat some weeks ago of the legislation under which the proposed purchasing commission was to be created, I ask: Firstly, do these proposed acquisitions relate to the commission referred to in the Purchasing Commission Bill? Secondly, if so, under what power or authority and for what purpose is it proposed to acquire this equipment for a non-existent body? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction. Is it a fact that the funds to be made available to co-operative housing societies in Victoria in 1975-76 have been reduced from the amount of $69m sought by the Victorian Government to $29m? Does the Minister agree that the reduction of funds available will mean that many prospective home owners will have to wait an indefinite period before their applications can be considered? Does the reduction affect some 120 housing societies in Victoria which are providing loans for those people in the middle income group who are ineligible for housing commission homes and who are unable to service higher interest loans from other lending institutions? How does the Minister see the likely effect of this severe cut in funds on employment in the home building industry? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Science and Consumer. Affairs. Has the Minister received, or is he aware of, strong protests from eminent and responsible leaders of the 3 Victorian universities against the 66 per cent reduction in research funds provided in the Budget? Is this the most severe Budget cut affecting any group in the Australian community? Will it lead to widespread retrenchment of research projects and to the breakup of irreplaceable research teams? Does it not add to the criticism contained in the 1974 Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development examiners' study of the low level of government support in Australia for research in universities and other institutions? Does the Government propose to review this decision and, if so, to what extent? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) When is it expected that legislation will be introduced to regularise the structure and operation of the Australian Assistance Plan. 
How many regional councils for social development have been created since 1973. 
How many of these councils have received funds in excess of (a) $20,000; (b) $50,000; (c) $100,000; (d) $200,000; and (e) $300,000 in each of the years 1973-74 and 1974-75. 
On what basis are funds allocated  as  between regions for the Australian Assistance Plan. 
What was the total amount spent under the Australian Assistance Plan for (a) 1973-74 and (b) 1974-75. 
What is the total proposed allocation for 1975-76. 
How is the current operation of the Australian Assistance Plan being assessed and by whom and when will a report be presented upon which legislation can be based. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Which Australian ship building yards are currently capable of building ships of over 10 000 dwt. 
What is the current capacity of each major Australian ship building yard. 
Which major Australian ship building yards have ceased operation since 1 January 1973 and why did they close. and some serving members of the Forces, who also are required to live in premises provided by their employers and who wish to build or purchase a home in anticipation of their retirement. While, in view of the statutory requirements, it is not possible to assist persons in this position until they are in a position to take occupation of the home, arrangements are in operation under which, subject to certain conditions, approval may be given for them to complete the purchase or erection of a home with bridging finance. 
Approval to proceed with the acquisition of a home with temporary finance in the circumstances mentioned is subject to settlement within 5 years and to the condition that a Defence Service Homes loan to discharge the bridging finance will not be available until the applicant takes permanent occupation of the home, and then only if the policy in operation at the time permits such assistance to be granted. 
I think the last speech really should not go completely unanswered It seems to me that 3 points were made. It was probably one of the most disgraceful speeches heard during an adjournment debate for some time. Firstly, of course, it was not a speech in reply to  Senator Martin.  Quite obviously  Senator Georges  came in here determined to speak and determined to read his little extracts from the Queensland  Hansard.  We only need to recall that  Senator Martin  was here to answer an allegation which was patently stupid and false, namely, the work which the NationalLiberal Party Government in Queensland has done in the area of women and their advancement. To that allegation the honourable senator made an absolute reply. 
The two other parts of the speech were the things  Senator Georges  really wanted to speak about. I deplored in interjection to him- and I deplore now- his avid interest in what seems to be perhaps some of the silliest speeches and remarks made in a particular State Parliament. I suggest to the honourable senator that he does not do this Parliament any credit by filling up the Hansard of this Parliament with a certain amount of garbage. I think most of what he said was garbage. We do not always have an absolutely perfect standard of debate ourselves. It is not only in the Queensland Parliament that one finds members who use the advantages of Parliament to attack people under privilege, to attack people's records and so forth. I can see other honourable senators across the chamber who make a practice of doing that. I think it is a deplorable practice. Such honourable senators are really in no position to say to some members- I think they are very obscure members of the 
Queensland Parliament who were quoted- that they should not be doing the same thing. They should reflect on some of the less edifying remarks that are sometimes made in the Senate. 
Then, of course,  Senator Georges  chose to join these comments to the perfectly proper remarks, the perfectly proper criticisms of the misuse of the privilege of the Parliament. Privilege of the Parliament ought to be examined by this Parliament as well. There have been occasions in the past in this Parliament and often in the States on which parliamentary privilege has been used very badly. Its use has brought some discredit on the parliaments. Obviously in the case recently in Queensland, the attacks on  Dr Colston  were disgraceful and were so recognised by members on all sides of this Parliament. Nobody doubts that for one moment. The fact that the honourable senator revives the allegations here in the debate tonight can only cause further hurt. It was an action condemned by the people of this country as being a disgraceful misuse of excessive power. We have a great power in this Parliament which can be misused and can cause great damage to people. There was obviously no senator - 
I think that the honourable senator will find, even in the short period I have been here, that I have lived up to that. I will continue to live up to that. 
Oh no, senator. I am just pointing out that this 3-piece speech of  Senator Georges  started with a completely irrelevant attack on  Senator Martin  and then went on to a useless repetition of extracts from debates in the Queensland Parliament. Of course, if the honourable senator does not buy the  Hansard  reports of debates there, he will probably not be in a position to read them any further. That is a pity because he obviously has an avid interest in them. In the third part, he made very justified remarks except that he made them some weeks too late. Those remarks have been made already. The actions have been condemned by the Australian people and  Senator Georges  should not try to wrap himself now in some sort of moral attitude as though he is the only person in the Senate who feels as he does on that matter. I suggest that the speech was totally unnecessary and totally unwise. Much of it could well have been left out of the  Hansard  reports of the Senate. 
asked the Minister represent  ing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the present position, so far as can be publicly stated, of the development of the Australian Jindalee OTHradar system. 
What funds have been expended on this project in (a) 1973-74 and (b) 1974-75. 
What funds have been allocated to the project in 1975-76. 
What is (a) the estimated completion date of Jindalee research and development and (b) the planned initial entry of the developed radar into service. 
What Government and departmental press releases and publications record developments in project Jindalee. 
asked the Minister represent  ing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What surface-to-air guided missiles are presently in service, or planned to be in service by 1 July 1976, with the Australian armed forces. 
) What is the general form of guidance in each case. 
When did each type of surface-to-air guided missle enter service in Australia. 
Are further acquisitions of surface-to-air guided missiles planned before 31 December 1980 in (a) infantry portable and (b) other classes; if so, what are the broad options open to the Government; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
With respect to the purchase by Australia of new armoured fighting vehicles, (a) is Australia to procure any of the following versions of the Leopard tank- Leopard 1, Al, A2, A3, A4; (b) how many tanks of each version are to be procured and by what date or dates: (c) are any versions of the Leopard tank not listed in part (b) above to be procured; if so, how many other versions are to be procured, how many tanks of each such version are to be procured and by what date or dates; and (d) is any version of the tank to be acquired by Australia air portable in current RAAF aircraft without dissassembly. 
With respect to each version of Leopard tank to be procured by Australia, (a) what is the cost per tank to Australia exclusive of spares; (b) what is the cost of spares for each tank; and (c) what proportion of total cost will be spent in Australia. 
asked the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
l ) What anti-tank guided weapons are presently in service, or planned to be in service by 1 July 1976, with the Australian armed forces. 
) What is the general form of guidance in each case. 
When did each type of anti-tank guided weapon enter service in Australia. 
Are further acquisitions of anti-tank guided weapons planned before 3 1 December 1 980; if so, what are the broad options open to the Government; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of the recent reported statements by  Dr N.  Gray of the Victorian Anti-Cancer Council pointing out that efforts to discourage young people from smoking are failing, because of the effect of glamorous advertising of certain brands of cigarettes which are now heavily purchased by the young. 
In view of this fact and the established link between heavy smoking and lung cancer, how does the Australian 
Government justify the savage reduction of Government contribution to anti-cancer campaign funds in this year's Budget from $500,000 to $ 100,000. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Using the definition given in the Minister's answer to Question No. 4 1 7 (vide, Senate Hansard, 7 November 1 973, page 1632), what were the unserviceability rates for Centurion tanks on issue for each month from September 1973 to the latest complete month. 
How many Centurions were on issue in each of these months. 
Has the Army ordered spare parts for the Centurion tanks currently in service to last until 1983; if so, why. 
Does each 'serviceable' Centurion require four hours servicing for each hour of operation. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. Has the Minister seen or is he aware of the full page advertisement which appeared on page 23 of the  Australian Financial Review  of 16 September this year offering the General Motors-Holden's plant at Woodville in South Australia for outside contracts to make use of idle capacity? Is this the first time in history that Australia's largest manufacturer of motor vehicles has been forced to offer excess capacity to outsiders? What is the Government doing to alleviate the position that this discloses? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the Minister's statements regarding the establishment of a housing inspection service, has the service been established; if so, (a) when was it established and ( b ) how many inspections have been done since that date. 
What charges are being made for inspections and is the service financially self-supporting. 
How many persons are employed by the service and where are they based. 
What steps have been taken or are proposed to bc taken to make home buyers aware of the existence of the service. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister bring up to date the information contained in his answer to Question No. 1801 (Vide House of Representatives Hansard, 15 April, page 1656) with respect to Soviet warships operating in the Indian Ocean. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. Is he aware that exports of motor vehicles from Australia have fallen from 15 695 in June 1974 to 3733 in June 1975? What are the reasons for this decline in exports and what is the Government proposing to do to increase exports, particularly in the motor vehicle industry? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is it true that some drugs listed under the national health scheme are accompanied in Australia by less comprehensive literature than is required in the United States and other nations for exactly the same drugs? Does the Minister consider this to be a satisfactory situation? What is the Government doing to ensure that Australian doctors receive as much relevant information as possible about the drugs they are prescribing? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the proposed purchase of the Rumbalara property, near Mooroopna in Victoria, for a local Aboriginal group, have negotiations for the purchase been completed; if so, when were they completed. 
What is the expected cost to the Federal Government of the purchase. 
To whom and for what purchase will ownership of the land be transferred. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. What effect have the Budget proposals had on recruiting levels for the armed Services? Is it true that Army recruiting officers have recently been advised that there will be a reduction in the establishment of the Army, as previously announced? Is it true that there is now a waiting list for people wishing to join the armed Services? When was the last time that such a waiting list existed? 
I direct a question to  Senator Cavanagh,  the Minister for Police and Customs, particularly Customs. As the Prime Minister is noted for his profound interest in alliteration and other aspects of the English language, I draw the Minister's attention to the common sad experience connected with the names Cairns, Crean, Cope, Cameron, Cass and now Connor and ask: Does the Minister expect or fear uniformity of treatment for the remaining undiminished ministerial name of Cavanagh? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it not a fact that the Budget cuts will involve a considerable reduction in essential services overseas which are designed to assist our exports and other trading operations? In the light of this position, is it true that Australia is now extravagantly represented by 3 Ambassadors resident in France, namely, the Ambassador to France, the Ambassador to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and, lately,  Mr Oswin,  the former Secretary of the Department of the Media and now Ambassador to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural organisation. Is it a fact that the cost of maintaining the Ambassador to UNESCO alone is at least $200,000 a year? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. I remind him that on 30 July 1974, 28 May 1975 and again in August 1 975 I asked the AttorneyGeneral or his representative in the Senate why the Freedom of Information Bill promised by this Government since early 1973 had not been seen publicly and seems to have disappeared without trace. Does the Minister recall on the last two occasions undertaking to ascertain its fate and expressing expectations that it would soon be seen? Can he inform the Senate whether the Bill is a further victim of the abandonment of open government? 
-Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that public information about the confused position in East Timor and the source of the present conflict there is inadequate. What, if anything, is the Government doing to inform the public as to the present situation? Is the Government relieved at the lack of information as it enables it to avoid making or expressing any firm judgments? Notwithstanding this paucity of information, is it not still patently clear that the Indonesian authorities are using this cloak of obscurity to hide their militant support for defeated UDT and Apodeti groups, thus causing further deaths and distress in East Timor and the postponement of any settlement? 
I remind the Senate that we are debating the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation Bill. I am quite sure by the confused look on faces all around that this will come as something of a striking revelation. I must say this for  Senator Walsh  who has just resumed his seat: I am glad to see that he is back at his best nasty method of attack in the Parliament. Yesterday at one stage he sounded as if he was becoming a little reasonable. I think that had us all a little disturbed. But it is nice to know that he is back to the situation where he can face the position. He claims that if we quote a submission from the Chamber of Commerce it is because we are faceless men doing as our masters tell us.  Mr President,  he never thinks of his own masters. 
The point is that  Senator Walsh  has the idea that everybody has to have masters. He thinks that everybody in the Senate has to be speaking and using opinions which are put forward not because they are the views of people who are experienced in the area concerned, as the Chamber of Commerce and its export division are concerned with this area and know the position. He also has to assume therefore that when people quote from the experiences of people engaged in schemes and in this sort of work in their daily lives that submission should not be considered. I think that is one of the few relevant remarks that 1 gleaned from  Senator Walsh's  speech. The only other relevant remark he made was to suggest to the Opposition that it should go into the second reading of the Bill, take the Bill piece by piece and try to make a good Bill of it for the Government. As I understand it, that is not the job of the Opposition. It has a lot of other jobs but it is not the job of the Opposition to make Bills for the Government. Nor is it our job to try to go through the thicket of provisions, the unending suggestions and opportunities which this Bill gives to the Government and to try to reduce them to something in size that will satisfy us. I do not think we can do that in any event. 
I do not know what the honourable senator is suffering from. As  Senator Baume  is not here, I prefer to leave it until he returns to the chamber and can give a diagnosis. Before I go back to the arguments on the Bill, I wish to deal with one slightly relevant point made by  Senator Coleman  in the course of her long speech. She preferred to give us examples of New Zealand. She wanted to point out to us that in New Zealand where some similar scheme is in operation it was greatly resisted by the Chamber of Commerce and other bodies because of a threat of nationalisation. Then she said that now companies are using it, that now businessmen are prepared to work through it and try to get some gain. At least the businessmen are not mad. While that Government remains in New Zealand- I gather it is only a matter of weeks now before the Government faces its masters- of course businessmen will use the opportunities that are there. They would be crazy businessmen if they did not. But they have expressed their opposition to this proposal. Of course the proposal in Australia is under a great deal of attack by all those associated with it. A problem with this Bill is the problem which exists with so much of the administration of this Government. If the Government thinks a problem exists- and there certainly is a problem here- then it says that the answer to that problem is for it to get in and create a corporation and compete with industry. It thinks it should compete with the importers and exporters instead of giving them assistance by way of incentives, which would be more valuable. It could perhaps help with banking facilities and provide assistance which, through the running of a sound economy and through reducing inflation, would be of the most inestimable importance to the success of exporters and importers. Instead of that it makes the same old mistake that it made with the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill and other Bills, thinking that it can do better than private enterprise. History has proved that it is wrong. 
Is there in fact a need for this legislation? Has any development in the community indicated this? Have the organisations that are concerned with this measure been asked their opinion? The Minister for Overseas Trade,  Mr Crean,  referred in his second reading speech to consultations which had taken place with various industry groups. I think this is one of the few occasions of deceit, where the impression is given by the Minister that those were consultations in which the industry groups agreed with the proposal that was made. In fact, the Australian Chamber of Commerce, for example, and other bodies have expressed their total opposition to the proposed Corporation and on many occasions have made sure that their views were known and that other people in the community were able to express their views. Yet the Minister has referred to consultation having taken place and has given a quite false impression. 
I make the second point that there is no need for this Corporation. There is no lack of expertise in the importing and exporting part of our community. People have been doing these things for years. They have gone through a long process of developing contacts with other countries, including the centrally planned economies to which I shall refer in a moment. It is as a result of this work over the years by the many people who are engaged in exporting and importing that we have become the twelfth trading nation in the world. I do not know whether we still hold that position or whether we have slipped down the line by now. But certainly it is by the achievements largely of private enterprise that we attained that status. We are a country of small population that has developed a valuable trade. This must be borne in mind. 
On the question of whether there is a need for this proposed Corporation, I make reference now to that organisation which is so unhappily regarded by  Senator Walsh-  the Australian Chamber of Commerce. I remind honourable senators of the stand that Chamber has taken after investigating this issue and after receiving the reports from their export councils and so forth. I read from the August journal of the Australian Chamber of Commerce. It states: 
Following a special meeting of representatives of the Australian Chamber of Commerce and the Australian Chambers of Commerce Export Council and leading business houses, the following statement was unanimously adopted as representing the views of Australian Commerce on the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation Bill presently before Parliament. 
The Australian Chamber of Commerce holds firmly to the belief that the proposed Australian Overseas Trading Corporation is unnecessary and that the aims and objectives which have been attached to it can be achieved without further direct involvement of Government in overseas trading. 
I think what follows is the significant fact. The article continues: 
The factors which limit Australia's trade, both imports and exports, are the availability of products, services, finance and transport and not a lack of capacity, technology, or experience on the part of private traders themselves. 
Nothing that has been said in this debate today or in the debate in the other place has indicated any lack of ability in that area. It is rather the lack of Government policies- the lack of assistance which the Government has given to private traders- which has caused the difficulties and the lack of complete achievements. 
I want to speak also on the fact that it is not necessary for governments to do these things. I want to give an example of an analogous area. Appearing in the  Port Authority of New York and New Jersey Journal  of June-July 1975 is a description of the work being done by a private enterprise organisation called the AfroAmerican Purchasing Centre, Inc., which is situated in the World Trade Centre of New York. This organisation is one which helps international trade as a private organisation and finds it beneficial and profitable to do so. Among other things, it has organised a staff of technical experts- consultants and professional buyers with specialisations in most aspects of economic development. With speed and efficiency characteristic of buyers in highly competitive industries, AAPC delivers a wide variety of services to its clients. What it does, among other things, is to train and to bring across to America people who will be able to work in the foreign trade area and manage to obtain for their own countries good bargains and excellent trade with America. Without describing this at length, I will say that it does provide an example of what can be done and is being done in various parts of the world. The assistance which governments could give to the development of those organisations would be infinitely more valuable than the spending of money on a government body with all the deficiencies that have been pointed out in this debate. I have pointed out that this Bill provides a competitor for the industry rather than assistance in the development of better trade. 
Thirdly, I want to deny the allegation which has been made in support of this Bill that centrally planned economies require such a corporation; that they will not deal with the small organisations or with the private enterprise body; and that they insist somehow upon dealing with a government body. I think that the overwhelming percentage of people in this country believe in developing trade through private enterprise and not through the government sector. But leaving that aside where is the necessity for this Corporation?  Mr Crean  said in a Press statement issued before the Bill was introduced: 
Our trade with the Centrally Planned Economies was not being developed as it should. The percentage of Australia 's total exports going to the CPE's had actually declined quite sharply from 11.5 per cent in 1963-64 to 5.9 per cent in 1973-74. 
Of course, he has not shown why that has taken place. He puts down the facts and somehow plumps for the idea that the reduction is due to inefficiency. The Press release continues: 

 Mr Crean said that the proposed Overseas Trading Corporation was specifically designed to develop trade opportunities with these areas. The record showed that tradebecause of differences in the trading system- had not been developed in any significant way. 
One should compare that with the material which is produced by  Mr Crean  's own Department. We can turn to the journal of the Department of Overseas Trade. Let us bear in mind that what is incorrect about the allegation concerning the requirement of centrally planned economies is that there are numerous examples of centrally planned economies dealing with the private sector. Also, there are plenty of examples of where the CPE countries which have previously dealt with common board securities to the private sector, because of the poor service and delays experienced with the board, are now turning to the private sector. The Australian Meat Board is a prime example of this. But let us look at some of the countries one would expect would be most desirous, whether for political or economic reasons, to deal with some central body. Let us take Iraq, a socialist country, and see what is said in Volume 27, No. 5 of the journal of the Department of Overseas Trade. It states: 
Because Iraq is a State-controlled economy, business is often carried out by means of public tender, although there is an increasing trend to issue invitations to selected known and reliable manufacturers and consultants. 
Iraqi authorities prefer to conduct business on a principaltoprincipal basis and there are heavy penalties for the use of intermediaries in some cases. But, to identify possible opportunities and to follow-up offers which have been made, it can be very helpful to have a local representative in Iraq. 
In other words, Iraq is encouraging and requiring the dealing to be on a principal to principal basis and not through intermediaries. Why would it be suggested that it would not deal with us in that regard? Let us take the situation in Cuba as an example. It is unquestionably another socialist country. Let us see what is said in Volume 27, No. 6, about relations between trade and private enterprise in that country. It reads: 
To enter the Cuban market, it is first necessary to send to the appropriate importer complete information on the specifications and/or technical data relating to the product. The importer has to present a detailed case to end users, and other departments must be consulted. It is a time-consuming but thorough procedure conducted in a businesslike manner. 
As a result of the investigation, orders may be placed or an invitation issued to the exporter to visit Cuba for further discussions. 
So Cuba itself, with all its ideological views, is not relying on the fact that it wants to or does cut out the private enterprise exporter. Czechoslovakia is another example. This time I refer to Volume 27, No. 6, of the Department's journal, which states: 
Direct promotion to end users, distributors, and industry trusts is essential if a foreign supplier wants to effectively introduce his products. 
That refers not to dealing with massive government corporations but to dealing with the end users. Let us take the arch example of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. One would expect that the U.S.S.R., if anyone, would have this desire. The remarks in Volume 27, No. 9, on trading with the U.S.S.R. are as follows: 
Many Australian companies have established offices in these countries to cope with the increasing business being conducted. The fact that these offices are accepted is a good indication that government to government dealing is not one of the major considerations. 
Let me repeat that last sentence: 
The fact that these offices are accepted is a good indication that government to government dealing is not one of the major considerations. 
Those are not my words; those are the words of the Department of Overseas Trade. That is its advice to people dealing with the U.S.S.R. Quite frankly I prefer it very greatly to the words of the Minister on the subject. 
He probably does not listen to his Department. He probably has too many other things to listen to. 
I am not putting them forward as my argument; they are just examples which have been supplied to us by the Department. I am prepared to accept wise advice to exporters in this country but not deceptive advice. 
I did not say 'principles'. I said that they had ideologies and that they were socialists and so forth. I think one of the important principles they have is that they like to do a profitable deal. 
No, I have not mentioned Algeria and about 150 other countries. 
They might be used. Nonetheless I will leave the other 150 nations and so forth to some other person. I want to refer now to what another organisation that is closely concerned with overseas trade- that is, the Australian Industries Development Associationhad to say in its bulletin on this subject. It condemned the Bill as being unnecessary and said that it would bring a proportion of trade into government hands. It referred to the experience of trading companies in commenting on a passage from the Government's case which it found to be quite unacceptable. That passage reads: 
The different economic systems of the centrally planned economies and their lack of understanding of free enterprise market structures make it difficult for trade growth to occur and difficult for trade to be developed and promoted in the same way as with Western Countries. 
Australian traders generally are inexperienced in dealing with the centrally planned economics . . . 
In reply to that the AIDA said: 
As regards the claim that small manufacturing establishments are in need of the marketing research and skills of such a Corporation in order to build their exports, and are in need of its services as an import agent, the best that can be said about such a sweeping and unsubstantiated claim is that the voices of the small manufacturers have not been very loud in calling for those benefits, and that Australia is not without trading companies which can do the same job satisfactorily and efficiently. 
I think that makes this claim for it- an important claim that the Government has made- quite wrong and quite unnecessary. 
If one looks at the Bill- I shall look but briefly at some of the major points of it- one can demonstrate that there is no doubt that the Government seeks wide and vague claims for the expansion of its activities under this corporation and one can readily realise why the Opposition cannot find it possible to repair this Bill. The powers of the corporation under clause 7 of the Bill are so wide. It can export and import goods, buy and sell, and engage in arrangements with persons and organisations to work as an agent or to act as an agent for the corporation. That is a wide one indeed. There is no saying what sort of work it may want them to perform, what sort of matters it may require to be undertaken for it and what sort of factories it may need to set up to create something. Under Clause 12 it has not got the power to produce. It cannot produce or manufacture goods. But it can arrange for that to be done. It can go ahead with the processing or manufacturing through agents. Those powers ought to be appreciated. A flour mill could be created under this Bill. Any form of manufacture like that could be created because it would be part of the incidental powers, part of the things it would need, to export the flour which it had. The Bill is so wide and so vague. 
The so-called protective provision in clause 10 starts by saying that where the board knows that a person is carrying on an established and continuing business in the export of goods of a kind from Australia the corporation shall not arrange to export any goods of that kind to an importer in that country. Of course, how is the Government to know this? How is it going to be told this? Is some sort of record going to be kept or will some exporter suddenly find that that country has been flooded with goods from it and that it will not be exporting to the same person but perhaps will be exporting to some other person in that country. The board is all right; it does not know about it. It can then probably do as it likes. 
The last one- one could make many references to these clauses- is the power under clause 13, which is the national interest clause. This matter has been discussed quite thoroughly in the Parliament. This clause gives the board -of course, on the direction of the Minister- the power to buy things not on an economic basis and not in order to compete against existing exporters and importers on some fair basis but because the country considers, or the government considers, that it is a matter of national interest, lt is then empowered to go ahead and carry on an uneconomical undercutting sort of trade. If any private companies were to do this they would probably be subject to being dealt with under the Trade Practices Act. Those are some of the provisions that make this Bill a Bill of deception and one with unlimited powers which would be soon seen to be exercised with vigour by this Government. 
I conclude by saying that what is needed is special assistance- not this Bill- that will enable the experienced exporters in this country and the experienced importers to be able to trade better, to have the backing of the Government, to have the assistance of it through facilities, through incentives where that is necessary, and through assistance in banking facilities and for this country to get its inflation under control so that it can compete and its goods will be saleable on overseas markets. If the Government were to concentrate upon the real issues that are prevalent in this country today and were to try to find real solutions to them, that would be the way in which the exporters and importers would really gain. They will not benefit by this crazy idea of creating a corporation and letting it compete and hoping for the best, at the expense of this country. The Bill deserves to be rejected and I trust will be rejected because it is just another of the poor judgments of this Government which have brought it to such an unhappy pass. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Who are the current members of the Council of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies. 
Which of the members of the Council are Aboriginals. 
What does the Government see as the aims and purposes of the Institu te. 
Is it expected that more Aboriginals will become members of the Council of the Institute in the near future. 
What is the extent of Aboriginal involvement in the operations of the Institute, other than at Council level. 
How much was spent by the Institute in each of the years 1972-73, 1973-74 and 1974-75. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee made any policy recommendations to the Government in the past twelve months; if so, what were they, and which of them have been accepted and acted upon by the Government. 
When will the next report of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee be presented to Parliament. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I refer to the final report of the Committee on Community Relations recently delivered to the Minister and published by his Department which relates to the position of migrants in the community and in particular to discriminations against migrants in the work force. I ask whether the Minister's attention has been drawn to the following statement on page 22 of the report: 
Generally speaking, trade unions are failing to communicate effectively with non-English speaking migrant workers and cater to their needs. There is also a reluctance to acknowledge that migrants are a particular group of members within unions with special problems. This indifference extends to the ACTU where at its last 3 congresses little mention was made of the specific problems of migrants in industry. 
What is the Minister doing to change this highly undesirable attitude of unions towards migrants and to ensure that migrants are treated as equals in the work force? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. It relates to the acquisition of office space for Medibank in Victoria. Is the Minister aware that owners of office space in Melbourne suburbs and Victorian provincial cities have been offered rentals at the rate of $6.50 a square foot, without negotiation, for the provision of Medibank offices? Does not this practice contribute to inflation in this section of the economy? Is the practice of offering an inflated high price rather than negotiating extensively for the lowest priced suitable accommodation a standard practice of this Government? If so, how is it justified as a proper use of taxpayers' money? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Australian Government make a contribution towards the cost of the tour of the Daly Wilson Big Band to the Soviet Union under the cultural agreement with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics signed earlier this year; if so, what was the extent of the contribution. 
What other exchanges of a cultural nature have been undertaken or arranged under this agreement and what is the approximate cost to the Australian Government of such tours. 
asked  the  Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it the intention of the Australian Government, after the introduction of Medibank on1 July1975, that all medical and hospital expenses and health insurance premiums paid by taxpayers should continue to be concessional deductions for the purpose of taxation; if not, why not. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: What are the differences between benefits currently payable to single supporting fathers and single supporting mothers? What are the reasons for these differences? Does the Minister agree that in some cases single men who are responsible for the upbringing of their children are worse off than single mothers? What does the Minister propose to do to relieve the hardship of single supporting fathers and to ensure that Australian children who are without a mother's care can receive adequate attention from their fathers? 
-I support the motion that these -documents be tabled. It is an extraordinary thing today that although  Senator Everett  does not know what the documents contain- he is worried about that- there seems to be no trouble on the part of the 3 Ministers who have spoken already. They seem to have a very good idea that there may be something in these documents which they do not want to see tabled and publicised in the Senate. They even reached the situation where  Senator Douglas  McClelland queried the Standing Orders under which these documents are sought to be tabled and wondered whether they ought to be changed. He tried to read into the Standing Orders a reason for someone wanting to look at the documents, a reason for someone asking for them to be tabled.  Senator Chaney  has given another reason and, of course, there may be all kinds of reasons for a person who, having seen a document quoted from, wants to check it, wants to see it and wants to find out its date. There might be all kinds of reasons for him wanting it tabled so that it is open for the public. So there is no point in that minor suggestion which  Senator Douglas  McClelland made. 
He complained that the Opposition had a holding notice of motion and that we had not used it, that it is still there and can still be used. There is absolutely no point in him saying: 'It was not used last week and the Opposition should have used it'. In fact it is there and it is an opportunity to take a step from the position we are now in if, when these documents have been tabled, examined by senators and by members and by the public, it is found that it is worth while to examine the person who made the declaration. In this afternoon's debate there was one very significant point made by  Senator James  McClelland. He maintained that the Opposition had had a chance to look at these documents and came up with nothing. It fell flat on its face, he said. Why then is he protesting now? Why is he complaining about these documents and what I assume to be a chronology of events, among other things, being put before the Senate? Why is the Government so worried? I think the expression is: 'Me thinketh they protest too much'. 
Government senators have protested all the afternoon about the tabling of these documents and obviously they have no confidence that there is nothing in them. Why should they complain if there is nothing in them but that this man Khemlani, the Government's man, a man it negotiated with for a considerable amount of money over a considerable period of time, a man it trusted and a man whose involvement with the Government we have criticised, wants to clear his name. He has been involved throughout a long period and his name has been bandied about this country. He is in a special position where he seeks now to clear his name by putting all the facts before the public. If that is so, why should those facts not be put before the public? Why should we not have an opportunity to see them? It is no use interjecting and barking in the way that a little dog would all afternoon and as the senator who is interjecting now,  Senator Poyser,  has done throughout the afternoon, asking: 'Why don't you give it to the Press to publish; let the Press do it?'. I should have said a macaw or some kind of parrot. 
If  Senator Poyser  listens for a moment I will tell him. We are entitled to see the whole document, to see how this man sets out his case. We should not have to depend on reading tomorrow morning's  Age  or  Sun  or some other newspaper and see only the extracts which it chooses to publish. It is not for their judgment. This man sought to put material before the Senate so that he could clear his name. He subscribed to this material on oath and if he has done that we are entitled to see the whole of the documents and make our judgment not only on whether they are of value but also on what parts of them are significant. We should not be dependent upon what a newspaper tomorrow morning chooses to print of these documents. We have already seen selective tabling and printing of documents and we have not yet seen the whole story. It is of value to this Senate to see the whole of the documents. Although there could not be anything left of what  Senator Wheeldon  has said that  Senator Durack  has not already disposed of in his magnificent speech, there are one or two sludges that I want to pick up. In his attack, and this is something that has been said already,  Senator Wheeldon  talked of his petty sessions experience and the fact that in that jurisdiction documents are not used in this way. 
It was pointed out by  Senator Durack  that in the courts time and again in custody proceedings and all kinds of other cases proceedings are based on documents. Documents are produced. What is the particular value of that? Instead of coming into a jurisdiction and finding out the evidence piece by piece with no prior knowledge, the documents are there in which a person sets out his record and his evidence. There is the advantage that those concerned can look at it and cross-examine on it. There is the advantage of being able to tear it to pieces if it is not true. This is the situation here. The correct procedure for this Senate is not to have another grand type of investigation by having someone before the Bar of the Senate and having no knowledge of what he is going to say and then having Ministers, as has happened today, endeavouring to make a laughing stock of such proceedings. Obviously we ought to give this man the chance to have these documents tabled. One look at them shows how extensive they are. It is no use  Senator Wheeldon  asking us why we are cluttering up the Senate with these documents for one only has to look at  Hansard  to see that there has been a cluttering up of  Hansard  with documents, but not all the documents- just those that  Mr Connor,  the Prime Minister and others have chosen to put before us. 
-That is right.  Senator Chaney  points out to us that that is what  Senator James  McClelland said on television in a debate with  Senator Greenwood-  'The public knows all that it needs to know'- and he has since admitted that he was wrong in saying that and that sometimes one makes mistakes on television. I give him that to his credit. However, we want to know all that this man wants to put before the Senate so that we can then judge whether further investigation is needed. When we have all looked at the documents those of us who think there is something worth doing about what is contained in them can go ahead and do it. There is machinery to do that. It is no use saying here that this man should have been brought here next week, stood up in the back of the Senate and examined in a way which we have already seen demonstrated to be not very effective. It is obviously a matter where the facts should be looked at first. A man who has put his own words in writing can be judged by them and examined upon them. 
Finally, it is not just the case of an individual claiming to have been slandered and wanting to clear his name and put forward some views. The Senate could not cope with that sort of thing. This deals with a matter that has been in the Senate and in the other House of Parliament for something like 6 months now. It is a matter in which this man's name has been brought forward and in which all kinds of claims have been made. The Government relied so strongly on him and subsequently has gone cold on him. 
Surely the least that he is entitled to is to be able to present the documents and have the Senate do something about them if the documents warrant it, but with all the protests this afternoon, with all the screams, yells and the cackling of geese in this chamber, one can say only that there must be some truth hiding somewhere, there must be something which those honourable gentlemen and ladies opposite are unhappy about because they would not otherwise have put up such a performance to avoid the mere tabling of documents. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Is the Minister aware of a differential of up to 25 per cent in rates of pay for men and women in the Australian defence forces? Is the National Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation consulted in the formulation of rates of pay for members of the Services? If not, why not? Has the Department of Labor and Immigration been involved in any studies of the usefulness or work value of women in the defence forces? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) How many people accompanied the Prime Minister, on his most recent visit to Europe, aboard his chartered aircraft. 
How many of the people referred to in (1) (a) held official Government positions; (b ) were members of families of Government officials; and (c) were accredited Australian journalists. 
Did the Prime Minister, or members of his party, receive presentations from foreign governments; if so, who received them and what was the nature of the presentations. 
Did the Prime Minister, or members of his party, make any dutiable purchases on the trip; if so, did the Australian taxpayers pay for the transport of items purchased and was the normal duty paid by the purchasers. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction, or alternatively to the Postmaster-General. What proportion of the total value of public works constructed by the Department of Housing and Construction in the last 5 years was ordered by the PostmasterGeneral's Department? ls it expected that the establishment of 2 semi-autonomous commissions in place of the Australian Post Office will result in a decline in this proportion of work undertaken? Have there been any negotiations between the Department of Housing and Construction, the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission regarding the letting of construction contracts for the Commissions? If so, has agreement been reached and what is the nature of the agreement? 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President,  with pleasure. Has your attention been drawn to the oppressive atmospheric conditions prevailing over a long period, irrespective of season, but particularly this week, in the parliamentary dining rooms, Kings Hall, party rooms and especially in staff rooms in the Parliament building? Will you have inquiries carried out into complaints made by me and other honourable senators during the Estimates Committees hearings in October 1974- when another party was in government- as to the failure to complete the air conditioning work which was substantially done some years ago and to which the attention of the Joint House Department was drawn in 1974? Can the report of the Joint House Committee on this subject and action on it be expedited? 
Is the Minister for Science aware that the Interim Commission on Consumer Standards commissioned studies of dish washers, paints, and vinyl and linoleum floor coverings in 1974? Can the Minister tell the Senate what became of the reports of these studies? Is it true that the reports were intended for publication? If not, how can the expense incurred be justified? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Has the Minister any recent information regarding the Indonesian invasion of East Timor and the present military and political situation there? I ask the Minister in particular: Is it a fact that the Fretilin government of East Timor still maintains control of substantial territory and population despite the massive military resources of the invaders? Is there any new indication of willingness on the part of Indonesia and its allies in East Timor to allow free access to United Nations observers and the International Red Cross into the area? Is the Commonwealth Government undertaking any new or further initiatives to persuade our neighbours and allies to bring pressure to bear on the Indonesian Government to withdraw its alleged 'volunteers' in the face of widespread Australian and international opinion? 
-In speaking to the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply to the Speech of the Governor-General I wish, firstly, not just to pay a formal tribute to the newly-elected  President  but also to say how much I warmly regard his elevation to the office which he now holds and how, during the short period in which I have been a member of this Parliament, I have come to appreciate the unique qualities that he possesses and his sense of fairness and justice. It is very comforting to know that a person with those very qualities is in the Chair in this period when our democracy and our system of government are under some challenge.  Mr Deputy President,  I pay the same tribute to you and congratulate you on your elevation to the position that you now hold. I have the same confidence in you and the same regard for your capacity to carry out your functions in the Chair. 
I also congratulate the newly-elected senatorsthose who have made their maiden speeches and those who have not yet done so- and wish them well. I am sure that they will make a very fine contribution to the Senate. Already two of them-  Senator Knight  and  Senator Kilgariff-  have given a good indication of their knowledge and their appreciation of the great needs of the areas that are now being represented by them for the first time in this Parliament, and I am sure that they will look after the interests of their constituents.  Senator Messner  showed in his speech an appreciation and knowledge of the area of small business, which is of tremendous importance to this country. I think we all appreciated the thoughtfulness of his contribution to the debate. Finally, from the ghastly experience of my early term of office in this Parliament, I suggest to those newlyelected senators who have not already done so that they think carefully about making their maiden speeches fairly quickly and not being caught up in a succession of debates in which it is not so easy to do so. I do wish them well in their early periods in this Parliament. 
I believe that we are here among other things, to uphold Parliament and parliamentary traditions. As one who has heard a number of the speeches of Opposition senators in the last 2 days I feel that there is a need to remind ourselves of that point. I, like other supporters of the Government, deplore the boycott which took place in the early period of this Parliament and also the abuse of high officers of state that we have heard in some of the speeches. The course, the view and the narrow attitude that members of the Opposition have adopted at the moment is not one which even harms the individuals concerned, but it does harm and can harm the institutions that are necessary to keep together the fabric of this society. I urge them to bear that in mind because I believe that there is a danger that the office itself will be lessened in the public eye if they continue with the type of pettiness that has been displayed this week. In saying that, I do not wish in any way to denigrate what I know are genuine feelings and a feeling of injustice on the part of Opposition senators. I know that they hold those feelings, but I urge them to consider the way in which they express their cause. We need a responsible Opposition in this Parliament. I think that it is as necessary as a responsible government. Both things must go together. 
-No, I am not saying that. I say to  Senator Georges  that I believe that there is great value in a change of government occurring every so often. That is a matter which is beyond our cause and beyond our control, but I think that there is a healthiness in the fact that governments do change at reasonable intervals. 
-They have not, of course, been changing in that period. In that regard I want to say that I listened with some dismay to the speech made by  Senator James  McClelland last night.  Senator James  McClelland is a very effective and able  speaker  and, of course, he made a very effective speech last night. I greatly appreciate many of the things that he has done in this Parliament and many of his abilities, but I believe that he did himself much less than justice last evening.  Senator James  McClelland chose to do something which I think should be analysed carefully by honourable senators. Let us look carefully at the speech he made. Honourable senators will see, at page 56 of the Senate  Hansard,  that he disclosed what he alleged were conversations with the Governor-General in which he suggested certain proposals had been made. I deplore the fact that  Senator James  McClelland disclosed private conversations. He knows that it is quite unlikely and not to be expected that there will be any confirmation or otherwise of such conversations. We will not know any more about the matter because the Governor-General is not in a real position, nor should he be expected, to enter into a controversy on such matters. 
Insofar as  Senator James  McClelland speaks of his early friendships and of his associations and proceeds to disclose these remarks, I could not help bearing in my mind the expression 'he bites the hand that fed him '. It appeared to me to be an unworthy action on the honourable senator's part. Having disclosed what he said were conversations, it is interesting to read in  Hansard  how he proceeded to slide into another argument. He said: 
One wonders how many others he talked to. 

 Senator James McClelland then went on to speculate as to whom the Governor-General talked to. He went on to say, of course, that he believed certain decisions had been made in someone's mind. Then, after these few words, he came to this conclusion: 
That is why we talk of a coup and that is why we regard this incident as the most shameful single act in Australia's history. 
On the basis of no evidence, on the basis of nothing but his wondering and his expectations and his judgments, which  Senator Cavanagh  today does not go along with,  Senator James  McClelland came to that conclusion. It is unfortunate that these sorts of conspiracy theories are put forward without proof or justification but which, if they are believed, have the effect of denigrating an office which is held high in the eyes of the public. 
There are, analogous to this, constitutional problems which cannot be ignored by this Parliament or by the people of Australia. Nobody seeks to suggest that they do not remain problems. Nobody suggests that after a crisis which naturally imposed dangers and stresses on the system in operation in this country and which was prolonged there are not problems that are unresolved. I say 'unresolved' because I believe, as I think all honourable senators on this side of the chamber maintained throughout the election, that the election was not some type of referendum on the future of the Constitution or of the rights of the Senate. It was maintained fundamentally by honourable senators on this side of the chamber, and was upheld by the electorate, that it was a decision as to the economic management of this country, a decision as to which was to be the governing Party to get this country out of its economic problem in the best possible way. That judgment came across heavily in favour of the coalition parties. Therefore, I say that there should not be in our minds any idea that the various constitutional issues which have received attention and attracted importance in the last few months will just go away. 
Three matters are in question. The first is the power of the Senate, when it should be used, how extreme its use should be, and whether that power should be reduced in any way. Those questions are of fundamental importance. These 3 questions that I mention now cannot be resolved immediately. They are not matters which will be resolved in the type of heated debate which we have had in the last 2 days, lt would be well worth our while to put them aside for 6 to 9 months, but not much longer than that, so that they could then be considered, perhaps at the Constitutional Convention which will be recalled or in some other forum. This should not be swept under the carpet. 

 - Senator Georges, anything may be wishful thinking. This is what I wish, what I hope and what 1 work for. That is as much as one can do. The second question raised concerns the powers of a Governor-General in this country. Those powers were held in some obscurity. There is perhaps still some doubt, and of course there are differing views in the community as to what the precise powers should be. That is another question that ought to be the matter of rational public discussion. But, as I said, it will not happen just now. 
The third of these questions involves the filling of Senate vacancies. This has worried the Parliament for some 2 years now, and it must be resolved. I listened today to  Senator Mulvihill,  a man who is normally of a reasonable nature and who has compassion. Today he surprised me indeed when he said that he would get even on this question even if he spent 20 years doing it. He has greater confidence than I have of his ability to influence the affairs of State in 20 years time. Leaving that aside, I would suggest to him that that is not the way in which to tackle a subject like that. I do not believe that any honourable senator on either side of the Parliament wants to see the filling of vacancies in some random way as a matter of revenge or in line with the quirks of opinion in one particular State or of one particular politician. I do not think this matter will be resolved until it is resolved by a constitutional amendment. I believe that this is another matter which in time, when the heat has gone out of this debate and when rationality returns to it, will be looked into carefully by the people who are concerned with such matters in this country. 
I wish to deal with a different aspect of the matter. Surely we in this new Parliament should be giving a great deal of consideration to the future and the role of the Senate. I believe that all honourable senators in the 29th Parliament acted as a very efficient House of Review, particularly in the first year of the Parliament. I would say that as crisis fell upon the Parliament in the latter period and as the economy got into trouble there was perhaps some lessening of this efficiency and that some of the attitude of reasonableness which was to be found in this assembly was lost. Nonetheless, the House of Review function in the 29th Parliament was effective, coupled as it was with the committee system of the Senate which must be maintained. Thus we had in many important debates in the previous Parliament very useful debate and give and take which was not entirely on Party lines. I believe that the Senate has to maintain its position primarily as a House of Review but also as a House which develops effectively its committee system and which from that committee system comes forward with useful reports and debate. 
I think that we have the promise of some improvement. One of the failures of the last Government was the way in which it endeavoured to push so much legislation through the Parliament. We saw 220 to 230 Bills being passed in a year. I do not think that it did the previous Government much good and certainly it was not possible very often for the Parliament to consider that legislation with the effectiveness with which it should have considered it. I believe that in this new Parliament the ability of the Senate to act as a House of Review will be tested. It was argued by the previous Government in the last Parliament that there was something obstructive about the Opposition. I will not maintain for a moment that the Opposition did not make some mistakes in the last Parliament, that in the hurry and press to pass legislation it did not oppose some Bills which, if time had been available, might have been amended, or that it may have passed some legislation which it threw out. I am sure that in that period, with that mass of legislation, that could certainly be acknowledged. I hope that in this Parliament we will continue to act as a House of Review. It may be an important test of the long term success of the Senate that it should act in this way during a period in which there are big Government majorities in both Houses of the Parliament. I hope that we will perform in that way. If we do, part of the success will be due to the fact that we get together in committees and discover what areas of common ground exist. 
I recall reading some 2 years ago a book by Professor Harold Laski who, I think, would be an author acceptable to my socialist colleagues on the other side of the Senate. He made the point that Parliaments and the parliamentary system can survive only if there is a considerable consensus of view over a wide range of matters. There cannot be a consensus of view over many important matters but there must be an acceptance on the part of members on each side of the Parliament that in due course they will cease to form the Government, that there will be no revolution, that they will step out and someone will replace them. There is a continuity. Part of the consensus that is to be found is, I think, helped by the committee system developed in this chamber. I hope that we will have a continuance of that in this Parliament. 
I hope that the question time of this Parliament will not be dominated by Dorothy Dix questions which are passed to members. 1 have no intention of acting in such a role. I have no reason to think that Ministers intend trying to get me or other members to act in that role. I just make the point that I hope we will not see question time in this Parliament proceeding in that way. Nor will we find, I trust, ministerial statements taking the place of answers to questions. We saw that before. I hope we can have a new lease of life where those statements will take their right position as ministerial statements and not as answers to questions in the Parliament. I hope we will see as this Senate proceeds some improvement but certainly a continuance of the role which it has largely set. 
I turn now to the Governor-General 's Speech and to the motion that has been moved. I will not deal in this speech with the major questions which are covered in the Governor-General's Speech. But because I do not I do not want honourable senators to think that I do not think that those questions are of the greatest significance. The program is essentially based on the conquering of inflation which is ruinous and has been for some years. It is ruinous of the life and business of this community and is combined with the analogous question of unemployment which is damaging so many lives. The third and fourth aspects of the Speech are important- the question of the development of individualism and giving back to people the right to make their own decision and also the development of Federalism in a healthy state instead of what it has suffered recently. 
The 2 matters to which I want to turn briefly are referred to in the Governor-General's Speech. One relates to social welfare and income security. Part of the Speech as recorded on page 9 of Senate  Hansard  of 17 February 1976, reads: 
The Government will proceed with a review of the income security system as a whole, including the effectiveness of guaranteed minimum income proposals in overcoming poverty. 
I read with that statement the opening part of the social welfare policy of the joint parties at the recent election: 
The objective of a Liberal and National Country Party government will be to ensure that people are provided with a basic level of security below which no one can involuntarily fall. This security will be provided in ways permitting autonomy and choice to the individual. 
This tremendously important task which is before the Government should be given high priority. In this relation I wonder a little at the announced decision that the Social Welfare Commission is to be abolished. It seems to me that that Commission had an independent role in supervising a very large and conflicting area with different Ministries in which the interest in these questions could be seen to be not just a matter of the interest of a Department but one in which they should be compared one with another. In this connection I should like to refer to an extract from the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on clauses of the National Compensation Bill. The Senate Committee had considered evidence given by  Mrs Marie  Coleman on behalf of the Social Welfare Commission and concluded: 
The concern of the Social Welfare Commission, which was expressed in the first report of its Interim Committee, that the development of an integrated policy in the field of social welfare is of vital national importance', is understandable, especially in the light of the statutory functions of the Commission. 

 Mrs Coleman in evidence said things which I think are relevant, bearing in mind this proposed policy: 
I guess the point that I am making is that to my knowledge 3 separate reports in the last 12 months have gone to the Parliament which have highlighted problems as far as the present minimum income system is concerned, just gaps which are not handled at all. These gaps concern in particular the problems of lone fathers who are supporting families: the problems of large families in general who arc not helped by any present income maintenance system: and equally, the problems that most pensioners and beneficiaries of short term benefits with children have. These arc all groups which tend to fall into the poverty trap, even on the very austere definition of poverty that Professor Henderson has used. Now. we do see, as I said, that there are grave gups which at present are noi being mct, and wc think it may be very important to look at those gaps before wc move into ;in expansion in a dramatic sense in areas which are already receiving some kind of support however one might want to improve that support, lt is a question about what your relative priorities are, 1 think, in terms of developing national policy. 
I think it is correct to say that the Senate Committee, which was a Committee comprised of members from both sides of the Parliament, was greatly impressed with her insight, with the various proposals and with the view of an overall common feature to the social welfare question rather than the many different schemes that have prevailed for some time. I say, by way of a parenthesis, that I am sure the matter of national compensation- though the Bill has gone- cannot be ignored in this Parliament because there is undoubtedly a very mixed, obscure and costly situation in regard to the various forms of compensation around the country. 
That is not the point I am essentially making here. The point I am making is that it seems to me somewhat dubious that this Commission should go at this time. We in this Parliament remember that the Labor Government was proposing to abolish or bring the Commission under the control of the Department of Social Security. There was objection in this Parliament.  Senator Baume,  I and others raised objections at the time. I wonder whether the Department is not perhaps winning too much of a victory in having the sole say and having such a body entirely under its control. I say that by way of reservation and I want to see the policy outlined in the Governor-General's Speech adopted. While talking to  Senator Baume  this morning he expressed the view- I pay him tribute for it- that it was something like getting the lions to report on the Christians after they had swallowed them up. I wonder whether there might be something like that in getting the Department of Social Security to give reports and so forth after it has swallowed up this body which seems to have done quite a bit of valuable work. 
The second matter I want to mention in relation to the Governor-General's Speech is the statement made in it concerning the implementation of the Family Law Act which I regard as one of the major pieces of legislation of the former Parliament. I say 'the former Parliament' and not 'the former Government' because it was a matter in which there were great contributions from all sides of the Parliament. The GovernorGeneral 's Speech states that the Government will continue to implement the Family Law Act. A great deal of consideration has been given to this matter before the election and after it. In a similar vein  Senator Greenwood,  when he was caretaker Commonwealth Attorney-General in December last, said:   . . if the Government was returned to office on December 13, it would give top priority to setting up the Family  Court  of Australia. 
That has proceeded. I have had the opportunity in the last couple of months to observe very closely the development of the Family Law Court and also the very concerned interest which the new Attorney-General,  Mr Ellicott,  and  Senator Greenwood  before him have taken in the development of this new Court. It is an important and exciting venture. It is, of course, one not without some difficulties. Some honourable senators probably will know that there have been some challenges based on whether wigs are worn in the existing courts. There are some difficulties at the moment because some cases are dealt with in the various State supreme courts and some are dealt with in the Family Courts. I hope very strongly that the time will soon come when the State supreme courts cease to operate in this field. I know the supreme court judges have no great desire to continue. It is my experience in a couple of States that there is no desire and no interest to continue to operate. It is a highly undesirable feature that 2 courts should continue to deal with this matter. It is my hope that the continued development of these courts will go ahead with all speed and will have the top priority which was promised to them. 
Apart from the matters mentioned in the Speech of the Governor-General I think there are a couple of matters that are not completed. I suppose there are many things that are left over from the previous Parliament which are not completed. I will draw attention to 2 matters which I hope will not be lost sight of and which I am sure will not be neglected. The first is the matter of legal aid. As all honourable senators are aware there was a Bill before the Senate at the time the previous Parliament ceased. We have heard, from questions asked in this place, that the investigation into legal aid is proceeding and that the States are being advised. The opinions of the States on a desirable legal aid system are being sought. I believe that it is necessary to have a very full investigation. I believe there are still very complicated questions to be answered in relation to the proper legal aid system for Australia, such as the way in which the existing bodies that have done a lot of good work can be brought in without any duplication and waste of money, the extent to which a commission can be created that takes the control of legal aid out of the hands of the department and leaves it to develop, free of political control. Yet, at the same time, there must be control in a financial sense. There must also be some influence of government in regard to policies. 
The question is raised also of the extent to which the private profession can play a full part in this. A question not resolved is the extent to which salaried services will be required to supplement those services. I hope that in addition to the inquiries that are being carried out at the present time there will also be some further parliamentary investigation into this matter. I feel it is something highly suitable to examination by a joint committee of the Parliament or by a Senate committee. These matters should be considered in a parliamentary sense. I hope such an investigation will be carried out before the final scheme which will be applied in Australia is decided. 
Other areas which are unresolved are the reforms of administrative law and administrative relations which were partly dealt with in the last Parliament by the creation of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. Another unresolved matter is the appointment of an ombudsman for Australia. A Bill was brought before the Parliament and the Opposition, as we then were, pledged support for that Bill. We were going to amend it if we could do so to improve the Bill and strengthen the position of the ombudsman. Basically, it was a matter supported by my Party. I hope that will be a matter which will be given early consideration by the Government of this country. 
In addition to that is the vexed and critical question of open government which is much more than a cliche. During the last Parliament I took a lot of interest in the progress with the Freedom of Information Bill about which I have had a number of representations since the former Parliament was brought to an end. I believe that we need to introduce legislation along the lines of the legislation introduced in the United States of America. I believe there is a great need for information to be given to the public. I hope this will be a matter which will not be lost but which will be raised again in this Parliament. 
On this general question of information, may I pay tribute to our Leader, the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  for the booklet which has been given to members of Parliament today entitled  A Guide to Commonwealth Government Departments and A Authorities.  I think it is excellent that we have this full and detailed publication in our hands because it sets out a lot of information which not only honourable senators but others will want to know so that they can find out who is responsible for various activities. I do not want to carp about this but I draw attention to one thing the publication does not say and one thing we do not have in this Parliament. I am referring to a list of Ministers who represent Ministers in the other place. We have such a list in our drawer and it is useful to honourable senators when they are preparing questions. It would have been helpful if it had been incorporated in this publication. I hope this one-page document will be reprinted so that we will have this further information available to us. My main point here is that the guide which has been produced by the Government will be of great advantage and help to the members of this Senate. 
In conclusion I want to say that we have gone through a period of great polarisation of views. There must always be some polarisation of views. It is important that the Parliament should divide on important issues. But there are a lot of other issues that I think are unnecessarily polarised in this community. I believe we must try to find a lot of common ground if in this Parliament we are going to work effectively and have a great deal of success. 
I came into this Parliament and in my maiden speech I said that I hoped I would be able, above all things, to carry out constructive work in this Parliament. I maintain that hope today. I hope that I have had some success. I hope that this Parliament and this Senate chamber will set itself work of a constructive nature so that the Government's programs will succeed. I hope that inflation will not go through the roof as  Senator James  McClelland prophesied last night. He said he hoped that it would not go through the roof but he expected it to do so. I think we have to look for positive achievements and suggestions, whichever side of the Parliament we are on. I hope that in this chamber and in governing this country we will be able to do that. I have much pleasure in supporting the motion which is before the Chair. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Does the amnesty recently granted to prohibited or illegal immigrants cover persons who are in Australia legally as visitors and who wish to settle in this country? If not, why not? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to the proposed ban on the advertising of tobacco and tobacco products, planned to be introduced later this year. Since taking office has the Government received any information on this issue which would suggest that this proposed ban should not be imposed? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. On Tuesday I asked a question of the Minister relating to the amnesty for illegal migrants and its effect on visitors who are legally in the country. The Minister agreed to make inquiries. As I hope that the Minister may now have further information about this matter and it is a question of considerable interest and importance to many citizens and visitors I repeat the question I asked on Tuesday: 
Does the amnesty recently granted to prohibited or illegal immigrants cover persons who are in Australia legally as visitors and who wish to settle in this country? If not. why not? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. Has the Australian Law Reform Commission been requested to report on problems involved in the operation of varying laws in Australia relating to defamation? Has the Commission reported on such a reference? Have negotiations between the Commonwealth and the States been undertaken on this matter? If so, can the Minister report on the progress of those negotiations? 
You have no basis for saying that. 
I remember them very well. 
Department of Social Security of the Department of Health who are already engaged specifically in the area of the subsidised health benefits plan and administering the $2 and the $5 payments that will apply when the National Health Act is amended, will find themselves retrenched or transferred, or subsequently in some way either have to accept a downgrading from their present levels or ultimately become unemployed? Has the Government considered the amount of money to be saved by that action? I have no doubt that  Senator Baume  's figures would be correct. He said this action would save $8m to the the end of this financial year and $30m in a full year. If a great number of people working in these departments are to become unemployed and are therefore to receive unemployment benefits and the other assistance provided to those who are unemployed, is there any advantage in simply putting forward an amending Bill in respect of legislation which has not been successful since the outset? Might I suggest that the Bill be withdrawn in its entirety, be reconsidered and be replaced by proposals that will work for the benefit of those people in our society who need this assistance. 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of the practice which, I am informed, is common among some Public Service departments, including the Treasury, of unnecessarily using up overtime allocations in the present Budget period to ensure that similar allocations are made in future appropriations? If so, what is the Minister doing to cut down on this waste of taxpayers ' money? If not, will the Minister make a close inquiry into the matter? 
I do not want it to be felt that I am flogging a dead horse by resuming the debate and resuming the criticism of some of the remarks that have been made by the Opposition on this subject; but I believe that extraordinary factors have been raised already by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. I am grateful to  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack for his explanation of the true nature of the term 'godfather' in relation to the creation of the Senate committees. It relates to the claim that  Senator Douglas  McClelland made, namely, that the Australian Labor Party was the godfather of the Senate system of committees. These days the word 'godfather' sometimes has a rather sinister ring to it. I am assuming that it is not in that sense that the Labor Party makes its claim. However, I think it is quite interesting that  Senator Douglas  McClelland is claiming this role for the Labor Party. It is quite natural that he should want to do so. An important and valuable system such as the Senate committee system is one that any political party would like to claim the credit for originating. Of course, that is a strong argument for the restoration of the system and not for embarking on a new field of committees at this time. It was also very significant that the honourable senator referred to the interim report of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System. Of course, there was no doubt that the effect of that interim report was that we should continue the Senate system of committees and not embark in the meanwhile on a system of joint committees with both Houses- the Senate and the House of Representatives- contributing members to those committees. Why should we take away the existing system in the light of what that report has already stated to us? 
In addition, there was the argument that the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System has not yet been re-established. Then came the extraordinary conclusion from  Senator Douglas  McClelland that consequently in the meantime we should set up joint committees 'for the time being', to use his words. Why on earth would we destroy a system of committees which has references which we would expect to be returned to it? Why would we set up a new system of joint committees and then perhaps pull down that system as soon as we receive the report of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System? I suggest that there is no logic in that and no sense in it for the Senate. I recollect- I mention this for the benefit of new Senators- that at the time of the resumption of the Parliament in July 1 974 the same arguments were presented. We were presented with the same deja vu situation that we should not re-establish the existing committees, so the Labor Party said when it was in government, until we had received the report of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System. I ask honourable senators to think of all the reports of Senate committees of the last Parliament which would never have appeared and of all the debate which occurred on Bills and which was greatly advantaged by committee reports of the Parliament but which would not have occurred if we had taken notice of that advice at that time. We would not have had those reports because we were advised then- fortunately the Senate did not take that advice- that we should give away the committees until the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System had reported. Once again we are given this advice by the Australian Labor Party and it is just as foolish. We should proceed with the resurrection and complete establishment of committees, in their slightly amended form, in the context of the motion before the Chair. I say that, bearing in mind that, whatever might be said about the motion from the Labor Party, that motion accepts the nature and number of committees proposed in  Senator Withers  ' motion. 
It seems that the Australian Labor Party is just ignoring some of the facts which arise at this time and in the present Parliament. If honourable senators opposite are suggesting that we should establish joint committees, they should bear in mind, if they have not realised it, that there is a great disparity of numbers in the House of Representatives. They should realise the difficulty which their Party surely would have to face in filling the membership of those committees because the House of Representatives numbers are traditionally larger than the Senate numbers on joint committees. Consequently, we would have expected that they would find a great deal of difficulty in filling those committees. It may be that it has not come through to them yet that they have a very small number of representatives in the House of Representatives. After all, it took some time to come through to the members of the Labor Party on 1 1 November that they were no longer in government. I realise that in November for some hours they were left in the dark. 
-They may apply their full time to their parliamentary duties. But is the honourable senator suggesting that somehow Labor members in the House of Representatives are 3 times better as workers than members of the Liberal and National Country Parties? 
-That is not a modest suggestion which the honourable senator is making. I believe that the Australian people would find it very difficult to accept the proposition that a Labor member of Parliament is 3 times as good as a Liberal or National Country Party member. However, that may be a new reason why the Australian people elected a Parliament with only about one-third its members being members of the honourable senator's Party. As I say, I find it difficult to accept that argument. What the honourable senator is ignoring is the fact that Senate committees are small in number. If there are 3 members from each side of the Parliament, we can cope with that number. But, if we are to have joint committees, obviously the membership of those commutes will be much larger. In view of all the difficulties and for the reasons which have been explained by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and  Senator Withers  earlier in the debate but which I will not repeat, it would be difficult to set up and man joint committees as proposed by the Australian Labor Party. 
Two expressions came to my mind as I listened to the speech by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. The first one was that we should not give away the substance for the shadow. We have the substance of a committee system which has been recognised widely not only by the academics and others but also by the people who understand the position and who very recently in a poll indicated their enormous support for the Senate as a House of review and for its continuance. One of the things which in recent years has made the Senate much more acceptable in the eyes of the public is that it has operated a successful committee system. Why should we give away that substance for a shadow, which the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System says is a very unsatisfactory shadow? That Committee did not propose such an idea and does not yet recommend a change. For that reason I think we should not agree to the amendment. 
The second expression which immediately came to mind when I read the Opposition's amendment was this: Why should we buy a pig in a poke? The amendment does not describe how a joint committee system would operate. Clause 3 of the amendment states: 
Provisions relating to membership powers and proceedings of the committee be contained in a subsequent Resolution. 
We do not know whether that will be acceptable to the other House of the Parliament. We do not know what those terms will be. We will, as I say, be receiving a pig in a poke instead of the important and valuable system which has been tried in the last few Parliaments. 
My experience in the short period I have been here is that the standard of debate has been affected considerably by the fact that members sit together on committees. We have an opportunity of debating privately and fully many matters which are then of assistance to members in debate in this place. I listened to a lot of the debate on the Family Law Bill which, as we know, was a matter of substantial report and agreement by a committee of the Senate. There was a genuine debate on that matter in the Senate and at the Committee stage. We knew what we were talking about because senators on both sides had a great background of information on the subject. I see  Senator James  McClelland nodding in agreement. Under his chairmanship the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs carried out a very valuable exercise which was reflected in debate in the Senate. With the greatest of respect to our colleagues in the House of Representatives and having sat through a couple of days of debate in that chamber- members came in, made their contribution, their speech, a declaration of their views, and then walked out- I found that there was not a debate in the real sense because the members did not have the advantage that we had. 
I am not making imputations. Just because debate in one House may be superior to debate in the other does not mean I do not appreciate the very many things which are done in the other House, but the valuable work carried out by honourable senators on committees improved many debates in the past Parliament and will improve debates in future in this chamber. To throw that away and to become a mass of members, with honourable senators being submerged in joint committees, would, I think, be a very great loss. 
I say finally that I believe the Senate is a specialised House, both by virtue of its election and by virtue of the work which its members do. They have an opportunity of meeting together at particular times. They have the opportunity of devoting a lot of attention to committee work, which has not appealed so much to members of the House of Representatives. Of course members of the House of Representatives, with their enormous local electorate work, do not have the time to deal with such matters in an equal way. By all means let the House of Representatives set up policy committees. Of course it can do this. Nothing has stopped it from doing so for some years. Let us not abandon in any way the system of the Senate which has become one of the features of i*.s value and the resurrection of its acceptance in the community. I support strongly 

 Senator Wither 's motion, because the restoration of the committees is of great value and importance to this country. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. I refer to recent Press correspondence and speculation as to the continued implementation of the Australian Heritage Commission Act which was passed unanimously by the last Parliament. Can the Minister assure the Senate that the membership and staff of the Australian Heritage Commission will be speedily appointed and that the Act will be implemented fully and effectively so as to achieve the major objectives laid down in the report on the National Estate. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. With reference to a statement made on 31 August 1975 by the then Minister for Health,  Dr Everingham,  regarding the introduction of a requirement to include a warning against abuse on all radio and television advertisements for analgesics, has such a warning ever been required to be given by advertisers of analgesics? If not, why not? Will such a warning be required in future? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Has the Minister received representations from Hoechst Australia Ltd and other pharmaceutical companies in reference to the deletion of items from the schedule of pharmaceutical benefits as from 1 April 1976? If so, I ask: Is it a fact that when such items are included in the schedule the producing companies are expected to have ample supplies available for prescription throughout Australia? Has it been the practice previously to allow four to five months' notice of deletion of an item to enable producers, wholesalers and chemists to run down supplies? Is it a fact that in the case of the current 61 items to be deleted the notice given was just over one month? Does the Minister agree that such short notice will cause severe loss, particularly to producing companies which will be unable to use excess supplies in Australia or to market such finished products elsewhere? Is the Minister prepared to recommend in respect of such deletions from the list an extension for a further three or four months? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the present status of the National Disasters Organisation. 
Does the Government see any advantage in formalising the structure of the Organisation. 
What is the current, full-time staffof the Organisation. 
What is its current role. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. I refer to the Minister's answer to a question asked by me on 3 March 1976 concerning the continued implementation of the Australian Heritage Commission Act when the Minister assured the Senate 'that the Government is committed to the objectives of the Australian Heritage Commission'. Whilst I do not understand what the Minister means by the objectives of the Commission, I do understand the establishment, functions and powers provided under Part II of the Act. I therefore ask: Is it a fact that only one Commissioner,  Mr David  Yencken, has been appointed and that consequently the Commission cannot yet meet? Secondly, is it a fact that no employees of the Commission have been appointed under the Act? Thirdly, bearing in mind these delays in the implementation of the Act by the previous Government throughout 1975, what immediate action is to be taken to make operative the Australian Heritage Commission, which was supported by all parties in the Parliament and which was part of this Government's election policy commitment? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Are benefits still available under the Secondary Education Assistance Scheme. 
What conditions are imposed on the availability of such allowances, and what are the amounts involved. 
How many people will receive benefits under this scheme in 1976. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is the Government aware that the Overseas Telecommunications Commission has been using television commercials during prime viewing time for public relatons purposes rather than for the advertising of the services offered? Is it a fact that OTC has an Australian monopoly of international telecommunications? If so, what justification is there for the waste of these resources in creating a public image of a government monopoly enterprise? What does the Minister intend to do about the matter in the light of the present need for restriction on expenditure? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
With reference to a statement made on 17 August 1975 by the former Attorney-General,  Mr Enderby,  regarding the drafting of a code relating to offences committed at sea on Australian ships and by others subject to Australian jurisdiction. 
a ) is work on this code progressing, 
when will it be completed, and 
who is involved in the drafting. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to a joint statement made on 15 January 1976 by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and the Minister for Social Security, and subsequently reported in the  Canberra Times  of 16 January 1976, that information provided by the Taxation Office is available to and would be used by the Department of Social Security to prevent abuses in the unemployment benefit system. I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: Is information provided by citizens to the Taxation Office used for any other purposes apart from this and apart from those related to taxation? 
I desire to raise a matter before the Senate on this the first reading of the Dried Vine Fruits Levy Amendment Bill. Firstly, in relation to the matter that has just been raised by  Senator Sibraa  1 want to say that I think that there are just causes for the re-investigation and change of the National Employment and Training scheme under this Government. I think there is a need for more people to be dealt with under that scheme. Apparently that is what the Government has in mind in making its changes. In addition, I think it is important that those various examples quoted by  Senator Sibraa  of anomalies whereby we all know that the NEAT scheme has been abused over the last few years should be taken up by the Government and that money should not be spent in the wrong way. At the same time, I find I have sympathy in a particular sense for what  Senator Sibraa  said, and that is in the sense that retrospectivity comes into this issue. People have certain claims when they try to get further training through a scheme that they have entered. The situation is made difficult when the terms of that scheme are changed. I think that from that point of view the matter raised by the honourable senator is important. 
The point which I raise tonight in a completely different field is one which is concerned also with retrospectivity. It is the case of claims being made by people after they have taken certain action and then found that the Government has changed its policy and adopted a certain procedure. The particular matter I refer to tonight is in relation to the structural adjustment assistance scheme. My complaint arises in the first place in respect of a  Mr K.  B. Turner of 25 Park Crescent, Bentleigh, in the State of Victoria who has had correspondence with the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. This case relates to the retrenchment of a lot of people as a result of the previous Government's very unfortunate across the board changes in tariffs. This had an enormous and most unfortunate effect upon industry and upon a lot of people, including people who for many years had been in business and had found that that business fell from under them. This of course was a development which we knew of some year or so ago. 
I took the case of this particular gentleman as an example because he would be one of many who may be affected in the same way by this measure. He was employed by a company called Max Wilson Buttons Pty Ltd. It was a small private Australian company which manufactured buttons and buckles for the clothing trade. It was owned by 1 man who carried on business at Moorabbin. He employed approximately 50 people.  (Quorum formed)  I am grateful to my friends for providing a larger audience in the Senate to enable the important facts that I am endeavouring to display to be made known to honourable senators. Before the quorum was formed I was telling honourable senators that the man for whom I speak- I am sure that he is one of many who are affected- was working in a small company which made buttons and buckles for the clothing trade. During 1 974 some 50 persons who were employed by this company were progressively retrenched because the company was unable to produce goods which could be sold. It was not so much that the buttons were not being produced; it was the fact that the companies that were hit by the former Government's policies on tariffs were unable to buy the buttons. Therefore, this particular button company went to the wall and was completely closed down by 1974. 
The then Government paid to  Mr Turner,  the man of whom I spoke, and to other employees of the same company who were retrenched, maintenance assistance to enable them to make their way elsewhere in industry. This company had gone to the wall, and the clothing manufacturers in Victoria and New South Wales to whom it supplied goods also had gone to the wall during this period. From that time  Mr Turner  and other employees of the company were paid certain amounts by way of maintenance assistance. In fact, a sum of $2,895.36 was paid to  Mr Turner. Mr Turner  was paid this income assistance from that time until 15 March 1976 when he received a letter from  Mr M.  Gould, writing for the Director of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. The letter reads: 
Dear  Mr Turner 
I am writing to you in connection with your application Tor Structural Adjustment Assistance following your retrenchment from Max Wilson Buttons Pty Ltd on 1. 10.74. 
The Government's original decision provided income maintenance assistance to persons whose employment was terminated as a direct result of tariff reductions. 
It has recently been established that Max Wilson Buttons Pty Ltd was dependent on another company or companies for business, and it was the effect of lower tariffs on those companies that in turn, affected your employment. 
This means that your retrenchment could not be directly attributed to tariff reductions. 
The Government, after a careful consideration of persons like yourself who experienced these 'secondary effects', decided not to extend its original decision beyond paying persons directly affected. 
Accordingly, I regret that the income maintenance of $2895.36 paid to you was in error, and must be repaid in accordance with Treasury Regulations. 
However, you may have been entitled to Unemployment Benefit during this period. If this is so, the amount of Unemployment Benefit that you would have otherwise received can be off-set against the present overpayment figure, thus reducing the amount to be repaid. 
To this end, please complete the enclosed Unemployment Benefit claim in relation to the period 2.10.76 to 1.4.75 and return within fourteen days direct to  Mr M.  Gould, SAA Sub Section, Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, 151 Flinders Street, Melbourne. 
Yours sincerely. 
I wish to put to the Senate the proposition that this is an outrageous claim for a refund of money. I do not know how many people are affected by this matter. I have advised the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Senator Greenwood),  who in this place represents the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  of" the situation and I have sent a copy of this letter to him. I hope that 1 will receive an answer in respect of this matter. This is the case of a man who lost his employment. He did not know that it was a secondary matter. He knows that he lost his employment, as did everyone else employed by this company. Apparently, the purpose of the letter was to say that the money must be repaid because his was a secondary effect, not the primary effect, and therefore he must repay this money. 
I ask honourable senators to consider the position of the person concerned. He has received the money. He has spent the money. He has in fact paid tax on the money that he received by way of income assistance. Now he is told that maybe he will receive some money back as unemployment benefit, but that he has to repay the rest of the money at this stage. I do not know the basis upon which these demands are made. I do not know the nature of the claim that is made against this man. Whatever the legal claim is, I think it is an outrageous claim, it is an unfortunate claim and it should not be persisted with. People who have lost their jobs and have suffered unemployment should not be expected to repay money that they have received by way of income assistance because in this month of March 1976 it is now considered that a mistake was made in the assessment of the particular way in which this company went out of business and this man lost his long-standing job. 
I suggest that, irrespective of any legal claim, it is most unfortunate that the Government or this Department should now seek to get back money which unquestionably has been spent by this man on his particular needs. The money should not be claimed at this stage. This is one of those retrospective demands. Generally, whenever a retrospective claim is made it is an unfortunate one and one that involves injustice. We see this happen many times. We see it in this case. Suddenly a government department does some sums, makes a determination as to legal claims and then makes a demand for a very substantial sum on somebody who, I submit, should not be expected to meet it. I hope that the Minister will be able to give the chamber some reason why this claim is being made and some idea of how many people in the community, as a result of some reassessment of structural adjustment assistance, are now receiving demands of this nature. I suggest to the Government that, irrespective of the rights of claim, it should not make or attempt to make this type of claim on people who have suffered the misfortune of the loss of their jobs. I hope that the Government will give the whole matter a complete reconsideration.  ( Quorum formed.) 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. Is the Government doing anything to foster negotiations between tertiary institutions and employer groups to ensure that graduates are suitably qualified for private industry and to enable later year students to meet prospective employers so that each can better appreciate the other's needs and expectations? 
Has the Minister for Industry and Commerce considered utilising the skills of prematurely retired or retrenched executives for the counselling of small businesses in Australia? 
-I present the first report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Construction. Is it a fact that the Department of Construction has more than 1 5 000 employees on its payroll and that this is more than the employees of any Australian company with the exception of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and General MotorsHoldens Pty Ltd? Is it also a fact that this Department rarely constructs anything but is substantially engaged in supervising the work of outside contractors? Does there not appear to be more scope for reduction in expenditure in this Department than in most other areas of government activity? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is the National Health and Medical Research Council involved in analysing food samples to determine the level of pesticides and heavy metals. 
Was a preliminary report on such a survey presented to the Council's eighty-first session in November 1975; if so, when will that report be published. 
In addressing my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer I refer to a question on Public Service overtime which was asked by me on 2 March 1976 of the Minister representing the Treasurer. It reads as follows: 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of the practice which, I am informed, is common among some Public Service departments, including the Treasury, of unnecessarily using up overtime allocations in the present Budget period to ensure that similar allocations are made in future appropriations? If so, what is the Minister doing to cut down on this waste of taxpayers' money? If not, will the Minister make a close inquiry into the matter? 
The Minister then replied that if this was happening it was quite reprehensible. He undertook to take up the matter with the Treasurer. At the Minister's request, I supplied him with information that I properly could disclose without harm to my informants. I received no reply and inquire now as to when my question will be answered. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: Has the Cheynes Beach Whaling Station in Western Australia been granted a licence for 1976? If so, under what conditions, if any, has the licence been granted? Can the Government give an assurance that Australian representatives on the International Whaling Commission will continue to press for a total ban on all whaling? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to a report appearing on the front page of today's Melbourne  Age  alleging that the Federal Government has scrapped plans to finance a centre in Melbourne to give young people contraceptive advice and sex counselling and that the Family Planning Association of Victoria which was to run the centre has been so informed by the Federal Government. Is the report correct? Does it relate to the family planning 'action centres' which the previous Government proposed to establish in Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane? If so, can the Minister indicate when I can expect an answer to my question on this subject placed on the notice paper on 3 March 1976? 
I  present the following petition from 37 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that many Australians are concerned at the announced decision by the Australian Government to reduce the 1975/76 Overseas Development Assistance vote by $2 lm, and by the abolition of the Australian Development Assistance Agency. 
We your petitioners do therefore humbly pray that the Australian Government: 
as a matter of urgency, reverse the decision to cut the 1975/76 Overseas Development Assistance vote, so as to ensure that the full amount appropriated by Parliament for Overseas Development Assistance is spent this financial year to meet the pressing needs of those in the developing countries; 
reaffirm Australia's commitment of Overseas Development Assistance being a minimum of 0.7 per cent of GNP, and 
establish a fully independent statutory authority to administer Australia's official Overseas Development Assistance. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
In addressing my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Australian Capital Territory, I refer to an article which appeared in the  Melbourne Herald  on 1 April 1976- possibly an appropriate datewhich quoted a police report stating that a large amount of hallucinogenic mushrooms was being brought into Canberra. The mushrooms, known as 'blue meanies' or 'gold tops', are found, according to the report, about 130 kilometres from Canberra. The police report referred also to young Canberra people experimenting with a plant known as 'loco weed'. In view of these developments, can the Minister assure the Senate that added precautions will be taken to see that such delicacies are not introduced to the parliamentary cuisine, bearing in mind particularly some indications of unusual behaviour observed in this place last week? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) With regard to the previous Government's announced intention to create Family Planning 'Action Centres' in Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane, were these centres established; if so, where and when, and are they still operating. 
Is a report available on the value of such centres. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to an article appearing in the  Australian Financial Review  of 6 April which claims that the Department of Social Security is seeking to remove the maintenance provisions in the Family Law Act that require the court to take into account the entitlement of an applicant to a pension from the Department of Social Security in making maintenance orders. Is this claim correct? If so, is the Department aware of the salient arguments, based on principle and reduction of expense to the Government, which were advanced in favour of this provision by members of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and other speakers in debate on the Family Law Bill and which are written into the Family Law Act? On what basis is the Department endeavouring to reverse this provision of non-party political legislation adopted by the Twenty-ninth Parliament? 
-I bring up the second report from the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. I refer to recent reports that the French Government has resumed nuclear testing in the Pacific. Can the Minister advise the Senate of the effects, if any, of last week's detonation on Australia's environment which have already been detected or which are expected to occur? 
-I present a report on the outstanding references of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to make a brief statement in relation to the report. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to an earlier question asked by me on 23 March 1976. 1 now ask: Can the Minister tell the Senate the specific purposes for which information provided by the public in personal income tax returns is being used at this time and the authority for the use of such information by persons other than those employed by the Taxation Office? 
I present the following petition from 1 3 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that many Australians are concerned at the announced decision by the Australian Government to reduce the 1975-76 Overseas Development Assistance vote by $21 million, and by the abolition of the Australian Development Assistance Agency. 
We your petitioners do therefore humbly pray that the Australian Government: 
as a matter of urgency, reverse the decision to cut the 1975-76 Overseas Development Assistance vote, so as to ensure that the full amount appropriated by Parliament for Overseas Development Assistance is spent this financial year to meet the pressing needs of those in the developing countries; 
reaffirm Australia 's commitment of Overseas Development Assistance being a minimum of 0.7 per cent of GNP, and 
establish a fully independent statutory authority to administer Australia's official Overseas Development Assistance. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I also oppose clause 7. 1 believe that it is not necessary and that it would be an unwise act for the Senate, being the House of review of the Parliament, to proceed at this stage to abolish the funeral benefit for pensioners. I believe that we ought to look a little further than has so far been the case at the purpose behind this proposal. If we read a book by T. H. Kewley called  Social Security in Australia 1900-72  we find that the funeral benefits were in fact introduced in 1943 for a very real purpose. At that time it was thought that the contribution which people made to mortuary funds was often undesirable and was forced upon them by reason of the fears they had that they would not receive a decent burial. In fact, in this book it states: 
When introducing the amending legislation ... the Minister for Social Services,  Mr Holloway,  drew attention to the fact that many pensioners, because of the fear of being buried as paupers, contributed to pensioners' mortuary funds, which, in return for small weekly payments, guaranteed them an amount, usually of not more than 10, towards the cost of a 'decent burial'. The purpose of the legislation, he said, was to relieve the pensioners of this anxiety in their declining years and, at the same time, to make it possible for them to devote the full amount of their pension to their maintenance. Relatives of pensioners were to continue to make private arrangements for the funeral, but were to be reimbursed for its costs up to an amount of 10. 
The Government was of the opinion that the continuance of pensioners' mortuary funds would serve no useful purpose and so included a provision in the Act which forbade the making of any payment, except in the case of a friendly society, to a person administering a contributory funeral benefit fund. 
I am not satisfied that there has been a change in the reasons and fears which were felt by people at that time and which thereby induced them to enter into funds which might have been unwise economically in their economic circumstances. They then felt they had a very real need for these funds to make provision for their funerals. The feeling was there and it still continues to be a worry to pensioners, as far as I know. It has been said at some stage of the debate in one of the chambers that the 1968 benefit which enabled payments to be continued for 12 weeks, for a surviving member of a family was in some way an answer to this matter. Of course, that is not so. It was not introduced for that purpose. It does nothing whatsoever to cover the situation of a single pensioner, a person who is a widow or widower or one who has never married. From my experience this is the sort of person who is most concerned that he is likely to be a burden on his friends and relatives. Such a person has the desire and fear, and so he must make provision for his funeral. 
It has also been said in debate that this provision has not been increased for many years and, consequently, that it is an insignificant benefit. I do not hold with that as any argument. I realise from my reading of  Mr Kewley  's work that on at least 3 occasions- in 1958, 1961 and 1963- the Australian Labor Party in its policy promised to increase substantially the amount of the funeral benefit. When it came to power in 1972 it did not do so. I do not see the failure to introduce an increase in this benefit as any argument for its removal at the present time. 
Reference has been made to the policies which the Liberal-National Country Parties put forward prior to the previous election. As I read the policy there is no provision for the reduction or removal of the benefit. There is no reference to the benefit at all. The policy states: 
Our social welfare policy seeks to enhance the security, dignity, self-reliance and well-being of Australians. . . . The aim of this policy is to assist people to overcome hardship and insecurity in ways which ensure that they retain the maximum scope for independence and achievement. 
We have a desire and intention to ensure that the many miscellaneous benefits are brought together so that there is something more comprehensive and logical in them. I refer to the last of our objectives in this policy where we state that we will:  continuously examine the nature and causes of social deprivation and poverty, recognising that these are not only related to material difficulties, but also to social and emotional needs. 
I feel that this benefit is closely related to emotional need. Therefore I believe that this is an appropriate case in which the Committee should look again at this proposal. Of course I am aware that in January and February the Government put forward proposals for a saving of $360m in government expenditure. I applaud this effort and idea. There was a need to reduce government expenditure. But in the course of doing that it is most likely that there are some cases where a mistake has been made, where further examination of the request for such a cutback could show that it would cause a great deal of distress and annoyance in the community and that the costs saved would not be worth the loss of public confidence which is involved. I say that by hindsight, by reason of the fact that, as a House of review, we are entitled to use hindsight, not claiming for ourselves any great ability or knowledge, but claiming at least that we have the opportunity, some months later, to look at the effect of this action and at the reaction it has had on the public. 
I refer to last night's Melbourne  Herald  which spoke of the desire of the Government to reduce expenditure in a drive against waste. The editorial, under the heading 'Funeral aid should stay' stated: 
In this atmosphere, some economies, while looking fine on paper, have proved too zealous; too harsh in human terms. An example has been the abolition of the $40 pensioner funeral benefit. 
It went on to state: 

 Senator Guilfoyle endorsed this case, but now finds 'a lot of resentment in the community', as she said last night. This is hardly surprising. The $40 is not an immense payment. The change will save at most $ 1 .7m a year. 
Pensioners do not have an easy time of it, particularly under inflation. 
Other examples might be given. The New South Wales secretary of the Combined Pensioners Association had this to say: 
If there is one matter that concerns pensioners more than any other it is the question: 'Will I have enough money for my funeral expenses?' They go to no end of trouble to join funeral funds for a number of years in an endeavour to cover costs. They now find that because of inflation, the funds in no way cover the expenses, even when they take out a double coverage. 
I note that the South Melbourne Council proposes to pay the funeral benefit if it is not continued, presumably because it thinks it is a matter of significance and importance. 
It is also a matter of concern to me that during the debate in the House of Representatives at least 2 proposals were made by Liberal members of the Parliament, which I think were of sufficient importance to be given further consideration.  Mr Wentworth  made a proposal in these terms: He thought that perhaps there should be an extension of the current twelve weeks payments. That would be an alternative, of course, to the present method and that should be investigated. He thought that should be considered as a further alternative to abolishing these particular funeral benefits. Likewise  Mr Ian  Wilson, another Liberal member, made the point that investigations ought to be made in the States to see what were the situations of pensioners and in what way in particular they could be helped as an alternative to the present proposal. I put it to the Senate that we are here as a House of review entitled to look again at proposals such as this. We are dealing not actually with $ 1.7m. 
What I am proposing is that if these proposals are taken out of the Bill, tomorrow I shall give notice of a motion that the Senate should send to a committee of the Senate this whole proposal for investigation. My proposed notice of motion is in these terms: 
That, notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders, there be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare the substance of proposed clauses 7 and 1 1 of the Social Services Amendment Bill 1976. relating to the proposed abolition of funeral benefits. 
That the Committee report to the Senate by the first sitting day in August 1 976 advising as to the effect of the proposed abolition and /or whether any other alternative action might be taken to achieve government objectives in this regard. 
In other words, if we now abolish funeral benefits is there any real belief that they can somehow magically be restored after the Budget? No. I think that we should hold this position. I hope that the Government, having seen the public effect of these proposals, will have the wisdom to allow a continuing investigation. What more suitable way can we do that than with a committee of the Senate? Are not our committees most capable? I know that we have a committee of public servants looking into proposals for changes in the social security provisions, but I happen to be confident that a committee of this Senate, which could call before it various organisations and various people, could do it better and can do it before this proposal is withdrawn altogether. 
If we withhold this provision even for the period up to the Budget, the cost would not be $1.7m; it would be less than $500,000. We are talking in terms of a Budget of $22,000m or more. What is there in the amount that should not persuade us tonight that we should withhold the abolition of funeral benefits and that we as a Senate, with the desire and the obligation we have to judge these things in our own conscience, should consider whether the case is made out for an immediate abolition of this proposal. 
I believe that we must be a House for all seasons. Some of our colleagues opposite have suggested that the Senate would be a House which would review legislation only when they were in government. I believe- I said this in a much unreported speech on the AddressinReply that this is our duty to be a House of review at all times, at all seasons, no matter who is in government. Governments are not infallible. I hope that the Government will show resilience in this and will accept the proposal which I have put forward and which, I believe, other honourable senators in the chamber will support. I hope that at this stage we will not remove this provision, bearing in mind the feeling and the sensitivity which there is throughout the community, but that we will have a look at it in the best way we can, that is, by a Senate committee. For those reasons I oppose this clause and clause 1 1, and I give notice that I shall move in the Senate tomorrow as I have indicated. 
I rise to speak very briefly on the Social Services Amendment Bill at this stage. I rise to support the motion for the second reading of the Bill because I believe it is very necessary that those payments which are promised in this Bill for pensioners ought to be adopted at a very early period and ought to come into effect. I think that we all on this side of the chamber, are in agreement and I think our opponents are in agreement that the major proposals contained in this Bill, that is the increase in pension payments, ought to be adopted as soon as possible. It is all very well for our colleagues to make claims and to move an amendment to the motion for the second reading by which they request something further be done. But we know that as a Senate we do not have the power to make such increases. We know that under section  53  of the Constitution we have no power to increase the expenditures which are required to make further payments. 
The Budget is another matter which is to be considered some months hence, as the honourable senator well knows. But so far as this is concerned - 
As the honourable senator may remember, the last Budget was introduced by his Party. I should not go into that too deeply if I were the honourable senator because his Party did not make any changes in this regard. Therefore, I do not think the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition is anything other than a pious platitude. Many of us would wish that there were further increases and that better things were available in the economy at the moment for the pensioner. But the fact is that to carry a pious platitude here achieves nothing. At this stage I say nothing more about that. I support warmly the desire that this Bill will come into operation so far as the major matter, that is the pensions, are concerned. 
Other matters have been raised in this debate. When this Bill reaches the Committee stage honourable senators on this side of the chamber indeed will raise the question of funeral benefits covered by clauses  7  and  1 1  . When the debate on this Bill reaches the Committee stage we shall express our views on that subject but so far as the second reading is concerned, I too support the passing of this Bill because it is necessary and desirable in the interests of pensioners. 
I almost apologise for interrupting the conduct of the New South Wales election which has broken out, particularly in the last speech. I say to  Senator Walters,  who a few minutes ago expressed some shock at the extent to which the Senate would be so used by members of the Australian Labor Party to fight that election, that there is a curious feature about the matter. A feature of the last Victorian State election was that  Senator Button  rose so valiantly into the lists. We know the result of that election and we know the assistance which members of the Labor Party in this chamber gave. Today those honourable senators are endeavouring to support  Mr Wran  and his party in New South Wales. In fact, they are uninvited guests in the contest. I understand that there is nothing  Mr Wran  wants less than to have honourable senators contributing with their record, their ideas, their negative and defeatist views into the campaign in which he hopes to shine as some sort of bright well scrubbed example of a Labor Party which has some message. We all know that he is but a small cog in the Labor Party system and has enmeshed in the web which federal members of the Labor Party in the Senate and in the other place weave around the Labor Party. 
Of course, at this time  Mr Wran  may be saying, 'Save me from my friends', because it is his friends in this place who are imposing and who are insisting that they want to be in the election. They insist on making their contribution. Today they have put before us a propagandist proposal as a matter of urgency which states: 
The imposition of a double taxation system on the Australian people and the implications flowing therefrom. 
They describe something as double taxation. That sounds good. It engenders in the public mind the idea of something being repeated, something double or treble or more. In fact, we have lived for years under a system of taxation which could be called double, treble taxation, and so forth. It is a system which has broken down badly. It has meant that the State governments throughout the country have been forced to exploit every type of tax that they could and to impose on people who want to buy homes and who want to engage in this or that occupation. The State governments have had to impose over and over again on some people in various activities because we do not have a system which enables the States to impose a growth tax. Therefore the system has required the States more and more to squeeze certain areas contrary to the interests of the economy of the country and of those States. Today we have a negative, conservative Labor Party in this country clinging to a system of uniform taxation as the only answer. In fact, the new Government has brought forward a responsible system of taxation. 

 Senator James McClelland, in a terribly turgid and tedious repetition of arguments, unfortunately with no sound effects which makes it very difficult, has come out with selected quotations. He stated that the Government is handing over the dirty work' to the States. In other words, he says that the Federal Government is saying that the State governments should be responsible and should have to answer to their constituents. They should not be expected to go cap in hand to a Federal Government to get a grant and then have no responsibility. Sure, the State governments will have to answer for the dirty work, if the honourable senator likes to use those words. The people in the States will thereby be entitled to judge a State government and to compare it with another one. 
Of course they will next Saturday, ls there the slightest doubt that the decrepit Labor machine of New South Wales will not be elected but will once more find itself in defeat? We do not have any worries on our side of the fence. Honourable senators opposite have a great deal of worry on their side. That is why they are trying to buy in on the campaign. 
The unsatisfactory nature of uniform taxation has been recognised for a long time. Back in 1952  Mr Menzies,  as he then was, at a Premiers Conference- they have been difficult things for years- stated: 
I say at once that as a government we agree that the uniform tax is thoroughly unsatisfactory and that in principle it would be most desirable for the States to be in command of their tax revenues. Therefore, I tell all the States here represented that the Commonwealth Government is abundantly and promptly willing to discuss with them the return to the States of their taxing power. 
It has taken a long time for the States to recognise that fact and to reach the sort of agreement which this Government in the first phase has now successfully started. But that unsatisfactory system has lasted for a long time. 
I am glad to know that our federalism policy has been read, even in a somewhat separated way, by honourable senators opposite from the Labor Party. In that policy we set out that the Government must have a fair tax sharing program. The taxpayer must be able to identify clearly his individual payments to the Commonwealth, State and local authorities. This will bring responsibility back to the system. 
I turn in this argument to what is happening in other great federalist countries in a similar situation. Listening to  Senator Wriedt  one would think that countries which had more of a decentralised system would be hopeless and that they could not be successful in running their economic policies. But this is not the case in the United States of America or Canada. 
I refer to a very interesting piece of writing by Daniel J. Elazar of the United States. It is called  The new federalism: can the states be trusted.  He points out the tremendous difference which has occurred there. We are years behind but we will catch up under this Government.  Mr Elazar  points out what has happened in the United States since the Second World War and how the criticisms of the States as being incapable of doing various things and of exercising various powers are shown to be faulty. He states: 
There is more than enough evidence to show that the States and localities, far from being weak sisters, have actually been carrying the brunt of domestic governmental progress in the United States ever since the end of World War II, and have done so at an accelerated pace since the advent of America's direct combat involvement in Vietnam. Moreover, they have been largely responsible for undertaking the truly revolutionary change in the role of government in the United States that has occurred over the past decade. 
That statement is illustrated by figures relating to payments which have been made since World War II. He goes on to state: 
No matter what base period is used, the fiscal data confirm this. Since 1946, state and local revenues from their own sources have risen from under $10 billion to over $100 billion, or by more than 10 times, while federal revenues have only quadrupled. 
In other words, in the States and localities of the United States there is a real development away from federalism. It is a recognition, as this paper points out, that it is not possible to run large and vast countries on a basis of centralism, which the Opposition Party here would have us do. I shall read a little more from this most interesting paper. It states: 
There are clearly no grounds for believing that one plane of government is more wasteful than the others, though the way in which their wastefulness is manifested may differ ... It has become increasingly apparent that federal regulation has meant not higher standards in these areas but an adjustment of standards toward a national mean that suits the interests of the parties being regulated, often to the dismay of those who championed federal intervention in the first place on the ground that federal action would obviously mean higher standards. 
So- Federal activity- or, as we would say in our context, centralism, as we know it in Australia, has not guaranteed any better or higher standards. In fact, it is a system from which we must move away on the basis of what the United States found and has done for many years now. 
We should look also at the case of Canada. I refer in this case to a man who I think did more than anybody else to raise this issue and to inspire the new federalism policy of the Government parties. I refer to the present Prime Minister, the Right Honourable Malcolm Fraser. He in fact went to Canada in 1973. I wish to quote some extracts from an article which he wrote for the Melbourne  Herald  on 18 September 1973. In that article he pointed out: 
While the Commonwealth government has the responsibility and odium attached to raising funds spent by the States, experience shows that the Commonwealth finds the temptation to put tags on those funds irresistible. 
It should be remembered that he wrote that article in 1973. Of course, the proof was that it was so irresistible that those tags continued to the extent that more than half the moneys was handed to the States in that way. The article continued: 
If the States are to have continuing important functions, they will need access to funds and the responsibility for raising them. 
In the course of that article  Mr Fraser  also pointed out what I believe is one of the most salient facts, and that is the great difference between Canada and Australia. In Australia the 
Commonwealth collects more than 78 per cent of all revenue and the States collect about 17.5 per cent, while local government bodies raise less than 5 per cent. Then mention was made of the significant part played by specific purpose grants.  Mr Fraser  pointed out that in Canada the Federal government collects, in the first instance, only 50.6 per cent of all revenues, the provinces collect a little more than 40 per cent, and local government bodies collect a little less than 10 per cent. When it comes to spending, of course, the Commonwealth of Australia pays across to the States moneys which they have not had the responsibility of raising; whereas the Canadian Federal governments spends about 41.3 per cent of the revenue it raises and the provinces spend 41.4 per cent. So in Canada there is a much greater decentralisation of funds, both in collecting and in spending. Therefore the Canadians have a better system. We are now moving towards a similar system- something which has been tried and has been operating successfully in Canada and, as I said, also in the United States. 
The conservative Opposition in this Parliament, the Labor Party, is trying to hold back this progress. 
In the course of their criticisms the first 2 speakers for the Opposition in this debate made some extraordinary statements. There was the allegation that with this new system the Federal governments in other countries have been able to do that. They do not have to have all the moneys in their hands for that purpose. A Federal government has mighty economic powers apart from the raising of revenue. 
Then, of course, we had that extraordinary glasshouse-type statement that we have had stability in financial affairs in recent years and that we could not disturb that precious stability which we have had. That is what we were told by honourable senators opposite. Yet today we have a Budget deficit in the order of- what is it?- $7,000m. They are figures which I am afraid are often beyond my comprehension. Nonetheless, do we call what has prevailed under the federalism system over the last few years 'stability'? It has not been stability because there has been overweaning power on the part of the central government in this country. It has been so overweaning that at times the government was not satisfied with it and sought the most extraordinary loans from abroad in an effort to gain complete power. 
This particular stunt on the part of the Opposition today is well meant; it is meant to help to elect a somewhat sad and worried party in New 
South Wales. But, when one looks at the system and the changes which this Government recognises are needed, it is also an illustration that the Federal Opposition is a negative one. It is defeatist. It is old-fashioned and centralist in its whole approach. It has learnt nothing. It is like the Bourbons, who learnt nothing and forgot nothing. It is learning nothing about the way in which this country ought to be run and how there ought to be a decentralisation of power. 
For those reasons I oppose the matter of urgency, the piece of political propaganda, which is before the Senate today. I am quite sure that the listeners throughout Australia, including those in New South Wales, will not be fooled for one moment. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: With regard to recent expenditure cuts at Australia's overseas posts, is it true that there were 'across the board' cuts in expenditure at diplomatic missions? If so, what was the extent of these cuts? If there were no 'across the board' cuts, what basis was used to detemine areas where expenditure would be reduced? Were overseas posts requested to provide suggestions for expenditure reductions in their own budgets? If not, why not? 
I present the following petition from 222 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That since the Australian Assistance Plan is making it possible for citizens to help themselves, thereby ensuring best possible use of limited Government resources, as shown by the fact that over 200 community projects have been initiated or funded through the A.A.P. in the Outer Eastern Region. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament will take immediate steps to continue the Australian Assistance Plan as recommended in the Report tabled by the Honourable the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Margaret  Guilfoyle in Parliament on the 4th of March, 1 976. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is it true that inspectors from the International Air Transport Association are in 
Australia or will be coming to Australia to instruct the Commonwealth Police in enforcing conditions on the issue of international airline tickets? If so, why is this being done? Is it the Government's intention to place further restrictions on the price of international air travel that operators in Australia can offer? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. I refer to the 1975 interim report on criminal investigation by the Australian Law Reform Commission which contains figures of the ratio of arrests to proceedings by way of summons. The figures disclose that the ratio was one to two for the Commonwealth Police, one to 4 in the Australian Capital Territory and an extraordinary 5 to 1 in the Northern Territory- that is, 5 arrests to one summons. 
Comparative figures in South Australia show a ratio of one to 3. Figures for arrests in the Nothern Territory per head of population show them running approximately 7 times greater than other States and Territory figures. Is the Government concerned at these high discrepancies and taking steps to ascertain the reasons for, and/or taking action to remedy, this excessive incidence of arrests? Do the Government's investigations agree with recent American research which indicates that expense to the Government in proceeding by way of arrest is approximately 5 times the cost of proceeding by way of summons? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Government considering a proposal to amend the Prices Justification Act so as to lift the present level of turnover below which corporations are not required to justify price increases. 
How many corporations in Australia have an annual turnover in excess of (a) $20 million, (b) $30 million and (c) $40 million. 
What percentage of corporations in Australia have an annual turnover in excess of (a) $20 million, (b) $30 million and (c) $40 million and what is the total annual turnover in each category. 
I present the following petition from 2 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth that 
There is a growing interest and concern in all sections of Australian society for the conservation of the environment, natural and man-made. 
That there are also rapidly growing pressures by powerful forces tending towards the destruction of the Australian Heritage. 
That it is therefore urgent to appoint the Australian Heritage Commission, which was approved by both sides of this Parliament and to give the Commission sufficient independent staff, resources and funds. 
That Technical Assistance Grants and Administrative Support Grants to community organizations are needed to partially redress the gross imbalance in technical expertise and resources suffered by community groups in pressing the community's case against the exploiter. 
That a proper balance between the Government's programme of public austerity and the need for action in conservation would be a modest increase in the budget allocations in these areas over that of 1975/76. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Administrative Services. I refer to a question to him which I placed on the notice paper on 24 February 1976 in which I asked: 
1 ) What changes in Commonwealth Government procurement and disposal procedures have taken place in the last twelve months? ' 
Have any of the recommendations of the Scott Committee been put into effect; if so, which recommendations, and when? 
I now ask the Minister whether I can expect an early answer to this question. I further ask whether, quite apart from any legislation promoted by the previous Governmment, the Minister agrees that there are many recommendations in the May 1974 report of the Scott Committee which are relevant to efficient and economic development of procurement and disposal procedures, particularly in this period of financial stringency? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the average number of employees in each State office of the Australian Taxation Office in each of the last five financial years. 
What was the average number of employees in the Central Office of the Australian Taxation Office in each of the last five financial years. 
What was the distribution of staff between the Central Office and each State office, by number and percentage as at 31 December 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the average time taken in each State office of the Australian Taxation Office for the (a) assessment, (b) payment of refunds to individual taxpayers, and (c) collection of taxation assessed from the date of receipt of personal income taxation returns lodged in each of the months from January 1975 to March 1976. 
What measures are being taken to make this process more efficient. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the amount of personal income taxation assessed but not collected as at 30 June 1975. 
What is the expected amount of personal income tax that will be assessed but not received on 30 June 1976. 
Why is assessed income tax not collected. 
What is the Government doing to rectify the situation. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. I refer to a Press report in the  Australian Financial Review  of 1 1 May 1976 which claims that the Government is facing difficulties in finding suitable additional commissioners for the Australian Law Reform Commission. In view of the number of references recently sent to the Commission, which has at present only one full-time commissioner, is the Minister aware of any difficulties in obtaining additional commissioners? 

 -Mr President, I bring up the third report from the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
-I present the following petition from 13 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned members of community organisations respectfully showeth that 
There is a growing interest and concern in all sections of Australian society for the conservation of the environment, natural and man-made. 
That there are also rapidly growing pressures by powerful forces tending towards the destruction of the Australian heritage. 
That it is therefore urgent to appoint the Australian Heritage Commission which was approved by both sides of this Parliament and to give the Commission sufficient independent staff, resources and funds. 
That Technical Assistance Grants and Administrative Support Grants to community organisations are needed to partially redress the gross imbalance in technical expertise and resources suffered by community groups in pressing the community's case against the exploiter. 
That a proper balance between the Government programme of public austerity and the need for action in conservation would be a modest increase in the budget allocations in these areas over that of 1 975-76. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) What inducements are offered by the Government to tradesmen to encourage them to take on apprentices. 
How many master tradesmen have received such inducements in the last three years. 
Has the Government considered granting reducing taxation deductions to tradesmen as a means of encouraging them to take on apprentices, as is done in the United Kingdom. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it true that the Telecom Australia cable to the Radio Australia station on Cox Peninsula near Darwin was damaged late last year and has yet to be repaired? Is the Minister aware that reports have circulated saying that over 1000 gallons of special oil is being pumped into the cable and is leaking into Darwin harbour every day at a cost of over $300 a day? Can the Minister comment on these reports and give an assurance that if they are true the situation will be rectified immediately? 
I ask my question of the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. Does the Minister agree that for Australian industry to reach optimum production levels and thereby reduce unemployment a significant level of exports must be achieved? If he does agree with this broad statement, is he concerned that the recent Government decision to restrict export incentives may hamper Australian economic recovery? Is the Minister considering the introduction of new export incentives which will enable Australian products not only to find new markets but also more effectively to compete in our current export markets? 
I would like to say a few words about the matter which  Senator Douglas  McClelland raised in the early part of his speech. The matter should not be allowed to pass with comment from just one member of the Committee. I think there should be comment from another senator. I think that the recommendations which Estimates Committee A makes would ring a bell with many other honourable senators who feel that whatever good may be coming from the consideration of estimates- there is a lot of good- they are not entirely satisfactory and that in fact much of the work that is done disappears into the sand. Perhaps the examination before the Estimates Committee is not completely satisfactory. Sometimes this is partially due to a sense of decency on the part of honourable senators who have not had time to look into a particular aspect but feel that the officers of a department are present and that therefore they should be asked some questions. I do not think we get a thorough examination if the departmental documents are before honourable senators for only a short period before the examination takes place. 
I hope that the suggestions which this Committee makes do become of general application. I do not know whether it is entirely practical- it may not be- that all the explanations can be available at the time the Budget Estimates come forward, but I do think that the explanations could be available very much sooner than has been the custom in the past. I hope that the ideas which the Committee has put forward, including this pre-consideration and discussion as to what matters are to be dealt with and concentrated on, will be taken up and their practicality examined. I think we should bear in mind that in the short period I have been here there have been changes so far as honourable senators are concerned. Honourable senators have additional staff. They have people who can do an examination and collect material, therefore assisting honourable senators who are sitting on Estimates Committees to make a proper examination of the material before them. I think the staff cannot be properly used if the detailed material comes before us a day or two before the hearing. Obviously further time is required so that the best use can be made of this method. 
I certainly appreciate what this Committee has put forward. I hope it is not lost. I hope it in fact goes forward and becomes of general application. I believe that the Estimates procedure is a good one but one that is faulty in its examination and, in its final analysis, not as good as we can do. Therefore I add my commendation to the recommendations of the Committee. 
I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That- 
The following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs for inquiry and report: 
Whether the Constitution should be amended to provide that judges of Commonwealth Courts should be required to vacate their office upon the attainment of a fixed age. 
2 ) The Committee report to the Senate as soon as possible but not later than the first sitting day in November 1976. 
In addressing my question to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral I refer to the growing delays in the hearing of applications under the Family Law Act, particularly in Victoria and New South Wales. In view of the removal of some doubts by the High Court and the establishment of the basic validity of the Act, can the Attorney-General give an assurance that there will be additional appointments of judges to the family courts at an early date to meet the present critical situation? 
I present the following petition from 220 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That since the Australian Assistance Plan is making it possible for citizens to help themselves, thereby ensuring best possible use of limited Government resources, as shown by the fact that over 200 community projects have been initiated or funded through the AAP in the Outer Eastern Region. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament will take immediate steps to continue the Australian Assistance Plan as recommended in the Report tabled by the Honourable the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Margaret  Guilfoyle in Parliament on 4 March 1976. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the statement by the Minister for Transport of 28 May 1976 advising of Government approval of Concorde aircraft commencing regular services to Australia. In that statement, the Minister explained that one of the major reasons for this decision was based on an environmetal impact statement on planned Concorde operation to Australia prepared by the British Government in association with British Airways Ltd and the Concorde's manufacturers, the British Aircraft Corporation. Will the Minister advise the Senate whether this environmental impact statement has been or will be made available to the public and to those who are expressing concern at the Government's decision? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister report on the progress of the local ownership scheme for Australian airports. 
Is this scheme being used to save the Federal Government money at the expense of local communities. 
How many public aerodromes have been closed in the last five years and why were they closed. 
What public aerodromes are expected to close in the next 12 months and why are they expected to close. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Government concerned at the great discrepancy between the ratio of arrests to proceedings by way of summons in the Northern Territory of 5 to 1 referred to in the Interim Report of the Law Reform Commission on Criminal Investigation, which also revealed that in comparison to figures for the Territory, the proportion of arrests to summonses was 1 to 2 for the Commonwealth Police Force, 1 to 4 in the Australian Capital Territory and 1 to 3 in South Australia with figures for arrests in the Norther Territory, per head of population, running approximately 7V4 times greater than State and other Territory figures; if so, is the Government taking steps to (a) ascertain the reasons and/or (b) taking action to remedy the excessive incidence of arrests in the Northern Territory. 
Do the Government's investigations agree with recent American research which indicated that the expense to the Government of proceeding by way of arrest costs approximately five times that of the cost of proceeding by summons. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Government aware that the Overseas Telecommunications Commission has been using television commercials during prime viewing time for public relations purposes, rather than for the advertisement of the services. 
Has the Commission an Australian monopoly on international telecommunications; if so, what justification is there for the waste of these resources in creating a public- image of a Government monopoly enterprise. 
If the answer to ( 1 ) and (2) is in the affirmative, in the light of present needs for restrictions on expenditure, will the Minister take action to restrict this expenditure. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications a question which refers to the Melbourne yellow pages telephone directories which have in recent years replaced the previous pink pages and which are now the subject of considerable criticism in Melbourne. I ask: Is it a fact that the replacement Melbourne Buying Guide has been divided into 4 regions and the replacement Commercial/Industrial Guide has been divided into 2 regions thus constituting 6 separate directories of approximately 2Vi times the size of the previous pink pages? Has the Minister received complaints from Melbourne businessmen and other subscribers as to the inconvenience, added costs and illogicalities created by this new system? Is the Minister aware of the many difficulties experienced in obtaining additional directories from post offices in Melbourne? In view of the approaching closing date for entries, is the Minister recommending to Telecom Australia, as an urgent matter, the return to the previous pink pages system? 
-I present a report from the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on its inquiry into the reference involving the ordinary annual services of the Government. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to move a motion.  ii. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. On Tuesday, 1 June 1976, 1 asked a question about the availability of the British environmental impact study in regard to the use of the Concorde aircraft. Is the Minister able to advise the Senate now as to the availability of that report? 
I move: 
1 ) That the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs for inquiry and report: 
Whether the Constitution should be amended to provide that judges of Commonwealth Courts should be required to vacate their office upon the attainment of a fixed age. 
The Committee report to the Senate as soon as possible but not later than the first sitting day in November 1976. 
I desire to make some brief remarks in support of that motion which I move as a member of the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I hope that such an inquiry will be undertaken on the resolution of the Senate. As honourable senators will know, section 72 of the Constitution provides that Commonwealth judges will be removed only on an address from both Houses of the Parliament in the same session praying for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity. In other words, the judges generally have a lifetime tenure. 
This is a situation which has a long history. It was designed originally to ensure that judges did have security of tenure, were not subject to control by the Executive and, therefore, could go about their proper duties without any pressure being brought to bear on them. 
-Yes, it does. It applies to judges appointed to the Family Court because they have to be appointed for life under the Constitution. That has been one of the problems which, when the Family Law Bill was considered by the Senate Committee and by the Senate this was recognised as one of the difficulties and was one of the reasons the provision for State courts was inserted. It was thought that judges could then be appointed to a State court until a fixed age. This was generally satisfactory. I had intended to deal with that matter in any event. 
Questions have been raised in relation to this area and the problem has passed through the minds of members of the Senate but has not been subject to any specific resolution. One should realise, at the same time, that, in the States judges are not subjected to this lifetime tenure. In five States the age of 70 years is fixed and in Victoria it is 72 years. It can be said that the fact that there are fixed ages has not shown, in those courts, any lesser degree of independent judgment by judges. Perhaps the arguments that were raised originally for life appointments do not now apply in such a way that we may not need to retain this lifetime tenure. This is the question which has to be considered. 
Judges in the courts of the Territories are not subject to that restriction because they are appointed under Section 122 of the Constitution relating to Territories. So one might say that we have a certain inconsistency even between judges who operate in the Commonwealth sphere. 
We need to consider the arguments that may be advanced by both sides of opinion on this proposition. There may be some suggestion that the life terms lead to judges of advanced years sitting in Court and to difficulties because of an inability to continue to operate as actively as they might. It might be argued also that judges who are there for a very long time inhibit the appointment of other judges who in the best years of their life do not get the opportunity to serve on the bench. 
All these arguments need to be weighed up and considered by the Committee. Any decision would be a matter involving constitutional amendment but that is a matter for further consideration. I put to the Senate that it is high time this matter was given careful consideration by the Senate and this Senate Committee. 
It is a matter on which this Committee would expect to have brought before it the ideas and suggestions of persons both inside and outside the Senate. Law societies and other bodies who wish to make representations would be welcomed by the Senate Committee. 
I have been speaking in general terms but it is with these matters in mind that I suggest this motion be agreed to so that the reference can be sent to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and enable a full examination of the problem. Any recommendations that appeal to the Committee as being practical and sensible can be considered by the full Senate at a later date. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Is the motion seconded? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I present the fourth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 

 -The President has known that I intended to speak on this Bill, and I certainly intend to do so because it is a matter of considerable importance. It was known to the Whip that I would be speaking on this Bill. Certainly after some things that have been said it is necessary to say something about the Bill. I support both Bills. I support the Remuneration and Allowances Amendment Bill which deals with the remuneration of the judges, because that was a matter which, in the long period that it took for the Bill to go through the 2 Houses of Parliament, was not amended. The small amounts, and well outdated amounts, remained, and they did not accord with the other payments that are made to federal judges. I support this updating to a proper level of the amounts which are to be paid to the judges in this Federal Court. 
-I imagine they would catch up anyway. I imagine that they have not. But, whatever happens, I consider that this measure provides no more than justice to judges who have worked extremely hard and in very difficult circumstances since the time that this Bill was introduced. 
I now refer to 2 matters raised by  Senator Wright.  Neither is covered in this Bill, and therefore I will deal with them very shortly. However, they are matters which I think should not go without some answer. In the first place, he refers to the provisions of the Family Law Act which relate to social service entitlements and the taking into account of those entitlements in the fixing of maintenance orders. That, of course, was a deliberate policy of the original Bill and it is one which the Senate Committee advised, and on which, first, the Senate and subsequently the House of Representatives agreed; namely, that it was a provision which would stop what had previously been high orders made against husbands who disappeared so that the State finished up paying the whole amount. I have no doubt that when all the evidence is examined that this provision will remain. I am assured by judges that it has been found to be a just provision which is working well so far as the Act is concerned. 
The second matter to which I draw attention is in regard to closed courts. That, of course, is not a matter which is covered by this Bill but which, as the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  has said, is one of the matters to be considered in discussion with the States to see whether some uniformity can be found in regard to both sorts of courts. That again was a matter of policy which was put into this Act with deliberate intent; namely, that we should not have, insofar as  Mr Bentham  is concerned, the sort of statement that where there is no publicity there is no justice. Anyone who has had a long experience with family law and its operations over the years would know that where there is all this publicity there is no justice, there is no fairness, there is the scarifying of children and innocent persons because of newspapers and others- I do not need to name them- which over the years made a lot of money out of the embarrassment of people; and that was a very deliberate thing. Whether courts be open with an option to close or whether they close with an option to open is a matter which can be discussed and considered by the State Attorneys-General in trying to find some uniformity. 
-The community, of course, has an interest in settlements. To say that a court is closed is not to suggest that these matters are not the subject of knowledge; it is not to say that they are not subject to appeal. It is not to say that if a judge misbehaves his actions will not be known on appeal. Of course, there are people who are allowed into the courts. There are people who, by permission, can be there. I do not want to take the time at this stage because of the fact that this matter is not covered by the Bill. Therefore, I want to turn to the Bill that is before us. But I shall argue that matter with anybodywith  Senator Harradine  or anyone else at any other time. So far as the running of the Act is concerned, I believe this was the greatest social achievement of the Twenty-ninth Parliament. I believe that the Act has been operating in a most effective way. But when one takes into account the diffculties under which the judges have had to operate, we see that some problems have been found. The amendments contained in this Bill are actually wider than I think was suggested by  Senator Douglas  McClelland, although, of course, they cover the matters that he raised. 
They cover also the suggestions which the judges have made over the period that the Act nas operated. Many of the suggested amendments in this Bill are those that the judges have found necessary to overcome some obscurities. The amendments therefore cover matters in relation to the enforcement of maintenance orders. They cover important matters in regard to the enforcement of custody orders, where difficulties have been found. Of course, they also pick up some difficulties in regard to the appeals system which were not covered in the original Bill. The amendments cover another aspect- the facilitating of the formation of the State courts. A State court has been formed in Western Australia. It is desired to make several amendments in this Bill which relate to making State courts easier to operate- giving further facilities to the State courts and making it possible for State courts to operate in still other States should these States wish to have them. 
Thirdly, the amendments, by reason of the cases of Russell v. Russell and Farrelly v. Farrelly, have come through the judgment of the High Court which demonstrated that there are limitations to the powers which the Commonwealth has to make these laws. Jagged edges are left by reason of those judgments. I return therefore to say that this Bill is a patchwork job. Necessarily it has had to be so. It is designed to reduce the definitions so that it only covers those things that are within the constitutional power at the present time. Any suggestion that this would be a satisfactory long term solution is, I think, another matter altogether. In reading the debate on this Bill in the House of Representatives I find that this aspect does not come out clearly except in the speech of the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott).  In fact, I think that there are three or four areas where we must make sure that efforts are made to overcome the anomalies and the unfairness which now exist, even under this Bill. 
In regard to custody it has long been realised that it would only be with the support of the States that we could get a situation where exnuptial children would be treated in the same way and with the same facilities of the Family Court available to them as are enjoyed by children of a marriage. But it is worse than that when we consider who are illegitimate. They could be children of a wife and not the husband, but have been supported and treated as members of that family for years. Later, after the natural father has disappeared, we could find that the husband leaves the wife and he may not be responsible for the maintenance of the children. The wife may have difficulty and not be able to get an order for custody from the family court. She would have to go to another court. This means that there is a jagged edge in regard to the areas of custody and maintenance that needs to be smoothed in the interests of justice to all parties concerned. 
A similar situation exists in regard to property. This Bill means that people will have to go through divorce proceedings and that property proceedings can take place in the family court only if they are ancillary to a divorce. When the original Family Law Bill went through it was one of the measures designed by this Parliament to get away from the necessity to jump from State courts and Federal courts and to avoid the tactics and the costs which are involved. I hope that this will be another matter which, in co-operation with the States, can be avoided. 
Closed courts are another matter which calls for co-operation between States and Commonwealth. I believe that probably now more than ever it is essential that States should be persuaded to exercise the power to create State courts, or they should be persuaded to refer the power to the Commonwealth so that the gaps can be closed. This would prevent, for example, a situation where custody proceedings are undertaken and the family court can make no arrangements to give custody to an aunt or a grandparent. 
It must concern itself only with parents, the 2 parties to the marriage. That is the limit of our jurisdiction, whereas we know that in many cases the proper person to have custody may be an aunt, a grandparent or someone else. This is obviously an unsatisfactory area. I welcome the fact that the Attorney-General is approaching the States to see whether this can be clarified. 
I believe that in the 5 months that this Act has been operating we have seen a magnificent job done by too few judges. I believe that shortly more judges will be appointed, and they are obviously needed in a number of States. The j udges have worked diligently and worked overtime to minimise delays which would be most detrimental. I think the Parliament should pay them the credit they deserve. 
Today in the  Sydney Morning Herald  Mr Malcolm  D. Broun,  President  of the Family Law Practitioners Association of New South Wales pointed out the physical difficulties which judges have to undergo. He concluded by saying: 
Against that background, the judges have notably succeeded in maintaining proper dignity and respect in their courts as a result of two important factors: the personal dignity and manifest integrity of the judges themselves; the cooperation of all but a few of the barristers and solicitors that practise in those courts, and the respect which is both due and given by those lawyers to those courts. 
This was said by  Mr Malcolm  D. Broun,  President  of the Family Law Practitioners Association of New South Wales. I know from what I hear in Victoria that judges in that State, men of calibre and excellent appointments, are doing a magnificent job. 
The last thing I want to say in respect of this Bill which is concerned with the administration of family law is to pay a tribute to the AttorneyGeneral,  Mr Ellicott,  because since the beginning of this year I have seen the way in which he has taken an absorbed and constant interest in this very difficult area. I have seen his concern to see that the Act works as well as it possibly can. I believe that this is a useful Bill because it does in fact amend various matters which have come up in the course of practice. But I believe it is not the last word. We have to ensure that with the States justice is brought into all the areas I have mentioned. With those remarks, I support both of the Bills. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a second time. 
Remuneration Allowances Amendment Bill 1976 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
To which Departments and for what purposes was information contained in personal income taxation returns supplied, by the Australian Taxation Office under authority of section 16 of the Income Tax Assessment Act, during the period 1 October 1975 to 31 March 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What Committees, Boards and Corporations established under the auspices of the Commonwealth Government, and concerned with the production, or marketing, of primary produce, were operating at 1 February 1976. 
What were the operating expenses incurred by each of these bodies over each of the past three years, and what contribution to costs was received from beneficiaries of these bodies' services in each of those three years. 
What savings will be made by the Commonwealth Government in respect to these bodies in 1 976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
With regard to musical performing groups employed by the Australian Broadcasting Commission: 
What was the total operating cost incurred by such groups over the last two financial years; 
b ) what was the total revenue from public performances given by such groups over the last two financial years; 
what proportion of total broadcasting time was filled by live and recorded performances of such groups over the last two financial years; and 
d ) what other functions are performed by such groups. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the total number of musicians employed by musical performing groups maintained by the Australian Broadcasting Commission in the last two financial years. 
What proportion of these employees were recruited from, or trained in, foreign countries. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
What was the total expenditure of the Australian Broadcasting Commission on direct coverage of overseas sporting events in each of the last two financial years. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. I refer to the Budget proposal to impose a fee of $60 on the issue of applications for divorce and certain other remedies under the Family Law Act. I do not now canvass the advisability of this impost or the purpose of its application which, I trust, may be for better facilities and services for the Family Court. I ask the Minister whether the Government has considered methods of avoiding the setting up of bookkeeping, accountancy and auditing services in the family courts required to handle this single impost. Has the Government considered the provision of stamps, purchased at post offices, so as to avoid unnecessary administrative expense? 
I desire to bring before the Senate during the adjournment debate some matters which I think are of importance and which I think should be known to the Senate and to the public generally. They relate to information which I have obtained and brought back from the Soviet Union in the course of a trip I made some two or three weeks ago. They relate to the position of dissidents in the Soviet Union and to the Soviet's action in regard to the Helsinki Agreement to which it is a signatory. In the course of obtaining this information I was travelling in the Soviet Union after discussions with the Amnesty organisation, I being a member of the executive of the Parliamentary group here in Canberra. It was at the suggestion of members of Amnesty International headquarters that people who are in a position to do so ought to make visits to those who are struggling in the Soviet Union to obtain human rights and to ensure their enforcement. 
I did receive a very adequate briefing from Amnesty International in London, and some idea of the situation and of the great difficulty in communication which they were having with their embattled colleagues in Moscow. Consequently I went to both Leningrad and Moscow. I certainly recommend to other members of the Senate and to people generally that they go and see the situation in that country and particularly to give some solidarity and support to those who are endeavouring legally and openly to proclaim the need for human rights and civil liberties in the Soviet Union. I found that there was difficulty of contact, even in Leningrad, because the general position is that those who are involved in human rights groups in the Soviet Union do not have a telephone any longer. The telephone will ring but it is not answered. The telephone is not connected to them. This is a common feature of those who have taken rather outstanding parts in this human rights struggle in the Soviet Union. 
In Moscow I made contact and also spoke to  Dr Sakharov,  the Nobel Prize winner who is a leading member and of course an outstanding member of the human rights movement in the Soviet. He is one who has a telephone and whom the authorities do not dare, because of world opinion, to attack openly. Although I had a telephone conversation with him and his daughter it was interrupted on 2 occasions when I was cut off and had to ring again just to keep contact. But still, he has a telephone. 
Then by arrangement which had been conveyed to the Moscow group of Amnesty International I had a long discussion with  Dr Valentin  Turchin whom I regard as one of the great heroes of the modern world. He is the  Chairman  of the Moscow Amnesty group and a man who has been fighting for years, cheerfully and with courage to keep alive this battle in the Soviet. He has lost his job since he became associated with Amnesty. He is a leading scientist and a most eminent man in all respects. Although various organisations in the Soviet Union would readily employ him, they are not permitted to do so. He and other leading members of the Amnesty group are out of employment. As a result of this discussion, I have reported at length to the Amnesty organisation in London. 
I want to give to the Senate some idea of the problem and the organisations that exist at the moment in that country. There are 3 particular organisations, one of which is the Human Rights Movement. It has existed for some years and has produced documents, one of which is  The Chronicle of Current Events  which is not allowed to be distributed in the Soviet Union. These organisations support those of their members and others who are prosecuted on the sorts of charges that are prevalent in the Soviet Union- slander of the Soviet system and like charges. According to Amnesty's records no political trial of this nature ever fails. Criminal trials .may fail but nobody is ever other than convicted in a political trial. 
The Human Rights Movement is one group which has worked for years for those people who are victimised. Among these are the prisoners of conscience in the Soviet Union. 
There is another group now about which I shall say something. It is a committee that has been formed this year for the implementation of the undertakings of the Soviet Union under the Helsinki Agreement. I shall say more about that. A third group is the Moscow Amnesty Group. Many of these groups have interlocking memberships and are not completely separate but the Moscow Amnesty Group is a part of the worldwide Amnesty movement and is an organisation which also has a number of members who are prisoners of conscience. It had one Spanish prisoner assigned to it and it worked for that prisoner and wrote letters. 
It did not know, until 1 arrived and told them, that their Spanish prisoner had been released 2 months previously. It did not know because the letters from Amnesty International telling them this had not been delivered. They were pleased to know that their efforts had had some results. They want to have another prisoner and will have one. Part of their job, in all the difficulties that they have, is to fight not only for their own members who may be charged- some have been charged and have been dealt with- but also to fight as a normal Amnesty group for prisoners abroad. Their aim is to help in the cause of publicising and, if possible, freeing those who are prisoners of conscience- persons who are not men of violence but who appear to have been dealt with unjustly. 
In addition to these groups there are many other groups in the Soviet Union, known to the 
Amnesty groups, and others. There are groups concerned with or suffering religious persecutionthe dissident Baptists and the Catholics in Lithuania, the German groups and Jewish groups both of whom want to migrate from the country but who are not allowed to do so. Even the Tartars, 300 000 of them who were removed from the Crimea during the last war and who have never been allowed to return to their homeland, are the concern of some of these groups. They are all involved in a general movement towards freedom and the granting of human rights. 
I want to say something about the Helsinki group because I think it has done something strikingly important in recent times. People in Victoria know that I have taken some steps to publicise this in that State. The Helsinki group is concerned with the obligation of the Soviet Union under the Helsinki Agreement. They are aware, of course, as we all are, that under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights obligations are imposed upon the Soviet Union to carry out and to enforce rights of freedomrights of freedom of movement, rights to leave the country, rights to have a nationality and many other rights. These are the normal human rights which we enjoy in this country. In addition to this the Soviet Union was one of the signatories a year ago to the Helsinki Agreement, an agreement signed by 35 nations, mostly in Europe but including the United States of America and the Soviet Union. In some documents I read in the Soviet Union that were produced by the Government on the celebration of its first anniversary, no reference was made to the human rights provisions of the Agreement. The Helsinki Agreement, a copy of which I hold in my hand, contains very clear obligations which are headed in Part VII 'Respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the freedom of thought, conscience, religion or belief. I shall not read this as the obligations are familiar to members of this Senate. 
Additional obligations are imposed under the Helsinki Agreement upon its signatories. They call for better communication of written material from one country to another, improvement of tourism, and improvement ofthe rights of people to move from one country to another. 
The Helsinki group has analysed the failure of the Soviet Union to implement in any way the duties it has undertaken under the Helsinki Agreement. I brought from the Soviet Union a document written in the Russian language. It is headed: 'Evaluation of the influence of Conference on Safety and Co-operation in Europe in part relating to human rights in U.S.S.R.- 1 August 1975-1 August 1976'. I desire to have that document incorporated in  Hansard.  I spoke with and delivered a copy of this document to the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  today. I have in my possession and shall table a copy of the document in the Russian language which may not be familiar to all members of the Senate. I would like a translation which I have to be incorporated in  Hansard.  I ask leave to incorporate it. 
That document is one that I believe honourable senators and others who read it will find striking for it is in strong language and was signed by 9 citizens of the Soviet Union who have endeavoured to publicise the material in it. Of those people who have signed it- nine in all- I will refer just to three of them. The  chairman  of the Helsinki group is  Dr Jun  Orlof,  a man of great scientific achievement, a man who, of course because of these human rights activities, now has no job. He has been out of work for  2lA  years. He is also the Acting Secretary of Amnesty in Moscow and a great fighter for human rights. Another, A. Ginsburg, is a person well known as a human rights fighter. General Petr.  Grigovenko-  a man who has suffered for his convictions. Since the Czechoslovakian invasion in 1 968 when he was arrested he has been placed in a psychiatric hospital, quite wrongly of course, but he was later released, He is a man who has fought consistently for human rights. 
These 9 men have prepared this document in which they set out, among other things, the conclusion that, the Soviet Union does not intend to carry out its international obligations relating to the human rights of man and refer, to Article VII. In addition to this, they say that the repressions  since Helsinki are more ferocious than ever and are continuing. They give examples of this and they set out the names of persons who have been dealt with. They deal, of course with the 2 members of Amnesty who were arrested and tried, when there was not much public pressure from abroad. The first of them, Sergei Kovalev, has been tried since the Helsinki Agreement, on trumped up charges. He has been sentenced to 7 years and a period of exile. The secretary of Amnesty, Andrej Tverdokhlebov, over whom there was international pressure, is now exiled for 5 years in Northern Siberia. While he has been there another man whose name I have brought to Amnesty from the Soviet Union is Pavel Bashkirov a man who travelled to Jakutsk to see the exiled Amnesty secretary. He was a physicist, a man of great experience, but now working on an electric saw. Since he saw Tverdoklebov, this man, Bashkirov has been arrested and his friends do not know what has happened to him. He has not been tried. So there is an attempt to put a wall around those members of Amnesty who are in prison or in exile. 
The situation is such that it is necessary for groups like this to get publicity for violation of human rights. This particular group of 9 people sent by registered post a copy of the document I have now presented to the Senate to all the embassies in Moscow of the countries that signed the Helsinki Agreement. None apparently was delivered. They have received no receipts back and although some information might have got to some of the embassies, they have not been able, by the ordinary proper channels, to make their complaint. 
I have done what I can to remedy that. Copies of this document have now gone to all the embassies in Australia or, where there is no embassy in Australia, then to the foreign ministries of all the countries that were signatories at Helsinki. This is by all accounts the way in which I can best help these people who are fighting for liberty in the Soviet Union. 
The great man who leads and inspires these groups.  Dr Andre  Sakharov, has written about the need for people in the West to point out things. In his Nobel Prize lecture, which of course he could not deliver personally because he could not leave the country, but which his wife delivered, he said: 
Freedom to travel, freedom to choose where one wishes to work and live, these are still violated in the case of millions of collective farmers and in the case of hundreds of thousands of Crimean Tatars, who 30 years ago were brutally deponed from the Crimea and who to this day have been denied the right to return to their native land. 
He went on to say: 
The ' Final Act of the Helsinki conference confirms yet again the principle of freedom of conscience. However, a stern and relentless struggle will have to be carried on if the contents of this treaty are to be given reality. In the Soviet Union today many thousands of people are persecuted because of their convictions, both by judicial and extrajuridical means; for their religious beliefs and for their desire to bring their children up in the spirit of religion; for reading and circulating- often to only a few acquaintances- literature which is unwelcome to the State, but which in accordance with ordinary democratic practice is absolutely legitimate, e.g. religious literature; and for attempts to leave the country. 
Those are only some of the things that are complained about. In summary, I wish to give some examples of the troubles these Soviet people have. They have restrictions on their telephones and mail. A scientific conference was to be held in a house in Moscow. But the owners of the house were arrested and the people were driven away, the scientific conference could not be held. It was something which the State did not wish to see happen. Threats of action and of punishment are made against people, designed to frighten and drive them away from working for human rights. Jewish people who want to migrate from the country in many cases are denied jobs or lose their jobs and are called up for army service if they come within the age group. Many of these people lose their employment or are incarcerated in psychiatric hospitals because they believe in human rights. The document which has been incorporated indicates that such use of psychiatry is continuing to this day- a cruelty which I think parallels that of the regime of Hitler in its absolutely disgraceful performance. 
Material is available and documents have been produced by Amnesty over the last few years indicating that, in the Soviet Union, there are 330 prisons or prison camps to their knowledge where political prisoners are known to be incarcerated. The number of prisoners is not known with any exactitude, but it is believed that, with the inclusion of religious groups, there are something like 10 000 prisoners of this typeprisoners of conscience- remaining in the Soviet Union. 
In conclusion, I wish to say that I believe there is an obligation on those of us who work in a free community, whether we be members of Parliament or businessmen or ordinary tourists, who have the opportunity to go not only to the Soviet Union but also to other countries in the world where this type of persecution is going on. For example, I draw attention to the tortures referred to very graphically in a  Time  article last week. We do have a duty to take advantage of such opportunities of revealing such behaviour or helping prisoners. I do not expect to have the opportunity of going to the Soviet Union again, but I do hope that others will make use of such an opportunity to highlight the fact that these people live in a state of injustice. 
It is regarded, and I say this with authority, as being most important that we highlight and bring to public notice the persecution of these individuals. That is the sort of thing which makes punishment less likely. It makes the operations of such people more valuable and gives them a sense that they are not alone in the world, and tells them that there are many other people who believe in the same values that they have. 
I feel that it is my duty to put this matter before the Senate. I hope that all honourable senators will read the document which has been incorporated and will take an ever-increasing interest in the concern being shown for prisoners of conscience in the Soviet Union. 
I present the following petition from 24 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
Objection to the Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Has the Minister for Education received representations from the Sydney University Postgraduate Representative Association claiming injustice or inconsistency in the introduction of fees for second or higher degree courses while pre-school teacher trainees are to be exempt from such austerity measures? Does he agree that modern technological society requires graduates with multi-disciplinary training? Does he feel that some injustice or hardship will be imposed on those graduates who had already entered upon second or higher degrees before the reintroduction of fees was announced? 
-Does the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations agree that incentives should be given to employers to utilise the services of tertiary students at vacation times in occupations of value to the students and to industry and commerce generally? Would not such incentives help to reduce the lag time before a graduate becomes productive in his chosen career? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to the recent appointment by the Prime Minister of the  Hon.  A. A. Street, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, as Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in women's affairs matters and to the proposed creation of a women's advisory committee. Will the Minister inform the Senate when it is expected that such a body will be set up, what will be its composition and what is its anticipated role. 
-I present the fifth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I refer to the articles appearing in this morning's  Age  newspaper and in the  Financial Review  yesterday purporting to describe the recommendations of the Hay report on Aboriginal land and enterprises and other administrative and departmental responsibilities. Are these newspaper reports correct summaries of the Hay report and its findings? 
-Is it a fact that the Hay report has not been released? 
-I think I would prefer answers from the Minister. Is it intended that it be released shortly? Does the Minister agree that the release of the Hay report in full is essential if the Senate and the public generally are to be in a position to assess properly the wisdom of any reductions or increases in expenditure or other changes in Aboriginal policies that are to be implemented in the coming months? 
I present the following petition from 300 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That the Ethnic Radio Hour in N.S.W. broadcast in Croatian is controlled and run by members of the Yugoslav community and that the Australian-Croatian ethnic community is' given no say. 
That Australian passports have been denied to some Australian citizens of Croatian origin without explanation or possibility of appeal. 
That discrimination has been exercised in the granting of citizenship privileges to migrants of Croatian origin. 
That discrimination is being exercised by the Australian Parliament in the negation and non-recognition of Croatian nationality. 
That discrimination is being exercised by the Australian Government in Ethnic Schools and University courses when it permits only the teaching of Serbo-Croat and not of the Croatian language as an alternative. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government will consider these facts in the light of justice toward a people who came as strangers to this land, and that appropriate action will be taken to remedy the present situation. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General: Is it a fact that although the Administrative Appeals Tribunal commenced work on 1 July 1976 under the presidency of  Mr Justice  Brennan, fewer than 150 inquiries have been received by the officers of the Tribunal and none of them falls within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal? Did the Minister and other senators then in opposition unsuccessfully advocate the extensive widening of the Tribunal 's powers when the Bill was debated in the Senate? Does the Minister agree that sound evidence now exists for the extensive expansion of the jurisdiction of the Tribunal so that it may render substantial justice to the citizen in his battle against bureaucracy? 
In addressing my question to the Minister for Social Security I refer to representations made over a considerable period to the previous Government and the present Government, and to senators, by organisations seeking the alleviation of the hardships suffered by one-parent families, including motherless families, in Australia, with which problem I know the Minister is concerned. My question is related to the undertaking in the Government's 1975 policy speech to introduce, as an urgent matter as economic circumstances allow, a benefit described in the following terms: 
For single parent families, or families where one parent is an invalid, we will introduce a special child care rebate. 
Will the Minister inform the Senate of the extent of inquiries made and the information received as to the need for this benefit and the progress that has been reached in implementing this undertaking? 
-I have always had some doubts about entering into the Budget debate, because, in many ways, it is a very curious debate. It is perhaps not a debate at all. If it is one, it is a very discursive one, and, if you are not careful, you can travel along running after hares and following them down holes. 
It is true that honourable senators speak on very diverse issues in the course of a Budget debate. It is a pleasure to follow  Senator Mulvihill  in these debates because, although he may not be reasonable on many of the things he says, he is always interesting. Today I felt that in his early statements there was an air of reason which was quite unusual coming from the Opposition, and many suggestions he made appealed to me. I must say, though, that, in his criticism of Government senators for presenting petitions about Croatians he seemed to feel that these petitions were related to some individual or another. Of course, they are not. They are petitions signed by many citizens claiming various grievances. It is not just our pleasure to present them, it is our duty to present them so that those people have a voice in this assembly. He said that he would like to see a tribunal set up with 9 members and he suggested various people for those positions. He proposed that the tribunal would look at such matters as the refusal to grant passports. I and many others in this chamber have been pressing for that sort of change for some time. This should not be a matter of division across the chamber. It is a matter on which there ought to be a lot of agreement. There ought to be a better means of review so that care is taken - 
I have no doubt that that is the case and I accept  Senator Mulvihill  's sincere interest in this matter. I am just saying that a lot of people, on both sides of the Parliament and in the community, feel that these sorts of suggestions are worthy of a lot more consideration. 
I must say that in the latter part of the honourable senator's speech I had some difficulty in finding the logic of some of his propositions. I did not understand his suggestions about subsidies for ships and for armaments. He used the example of between the wars and it appeared that this was the reason why we should maintain, at its full strength, an industry which is costing $13,000 a worker a year. I do not think that we can sustain that logic in the community and I do not think he should use war scares. He is using war scares to suggest that we, on this side of the chamber, ought to put economics to the wind and agree to his subsidy proposal. He may not have meant that, but that is how it sounded to me and I am afraid that that is where the logic of his speech escaped me. 
It is with pleasure that I support the Budget and the general lines which the Government is pursuing. Nobody suggests that all the things in the Budget will be immutable or that they will necessarily work. It is always a matter on which flexibility and change must be considered by government. With my knowledge of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  over many years, with my great respect and affection for him and with my knowledge of his work and his intelligence, I have no doubt that he is going to watch the continuing progress of this Budget and be ready to change or supplement it where it becomes necessary. 

 Senator Wheeldon, in a speech earlier today, I think very wisely assured us that he was not one who subscribed to theories of conspiracy. It was unfortunate that, a little later, he went on to expand some of the conspiracy theories which have been prevalent in this debate. Nonetheless, taking the wish for the deed, I must say that one would have expected him, with the experience which he had in government, not to have come so happily to the conclusions which are to be found in the Opposition 's case and in the amendment which it has moved. 
We must realise that the amendment is the same amendment as was moved in the House of Representatives. I suppose that is a great economy of effort and I suppose the amendment originated in the other place. But one must realise that in the course of the amendment there are conspiracy theories. There are allegations which suggest, for example, that this Government is desirous of promoting a policy of unemployment for various purposes. Even in the amendment of the Opposition, pride of place is given to the statement that the Government pursues a policy of unemployment as a weapon to reduce real wages and salaries. I refute that suggestion. I do not believe it. I do not believe for one moment that members of the Australian community expect any government, and certainly not this one, to pursue any such policy. I think the community is greatly concerned at the problems which are arising. 
Before I go on to develop that matter I refer once more to  Senator Wheeldon  's statements. He contended that one thing the Government was doing was 'demolishing the social service system'. I ask honourable senators to look at the Budget in order to see whether it accords with what  Senator Wheeldon  has said. We have to look not only at the Budget document which was brought down in August but also at the forecast reforms which were brought forward in May. Firstly, let us look at the family allowances which were presented to the community in May. That vast increase in the allowances was designed to give dignity to people on low incomes. It was also designed to ensure that wives in particular had some moneys of their own in order to make their own judgments as to expenditure. It is shown that 300 000 families will benefit by this and 800 000 children are to be beneficiaries,  ls this  the type of reform which can be described as demolishing the social service system? Is it not something which has expanded and widened enormously the effect of the social service system? Secondly, we see that full personal income tax indexation, was a feature brought forward from May. The middle income group, which has seen taxation taking a bigger and bigger bite of income over many years, is given an opportunity to see some normality. This is another expression which has crept into this debate. Yesterday  Senator Button  in criticising our wages policy seemed to object to normality. Yet this is a way in which normality can be brought to the incomes of people in the community so that they can see their future, knowing that it will not be eaten up by taxation. Is this action something which is demolishing the social service system or demolishing the ordinary living conditions of the people? 
Thirdly, the pension rate is to be adjusted automatically, taking into account movements in the consumer price index. That is a major and important reform in this era of austerity when it is difficult to imagine that a great deal of progress can be undertaken. But I suggest that this is an important area of social service. It is certainly not something which demolishes the social service system. Fourthly, we have new exemption from estate duty on estates passing to the surviving spouse. This is a matter of justice which, I suppose, should have been done years ago. It has now been done. This means that, at the very time when the surviving spouse is most worried, most affected and likely to be in danger, that spouse knows that justice will be done. Duty, in all normal cases, will not have to be paid at that time. I say to  Senator Wheeldon  that /  wish he would  stick to his statement that he does not believe in conspiracy theories. I wish he would not come before this chamber and make a sweeping statement that we are demolishing the social service system when, in fact, we have greatly improved it in this Budget. 
This is a Budget which concentrates on inflation and it makes no apology for regarding that as the major menace to the community. The Treasurer made significant statements in relation to this matter and in relation to unemployment, which is grave in the community. This is a matter to which I hope to devote some time of my speech. In his Budget statement after dealing with the economic strategy he said:  lt is inflation that is at the heart of the problem. This Government yields to none in its concern for the genuinely unemployed. But, whether they know it or not, those who, in the name of reducing unemployment, call for higher government spending, or bigger deficits, or full wage indexation, or devaluation of the Australia dollar, are calling for highernot lower- unemployment in this country. The overwhelming weight of evidence is against such courses. They have been tried both here and abroad: and they have failed. 
I think those are the terms on which the sincerity of the Government should be judged. The fact is that evidence shows that the Government has to get control of the inflationary problem and thereby take the major attack on unemployment. I suggest that there are some other things which ought to be looked at. These are matters which may, because of special circumstances, be needed to supplement unemployment, or unemployment in certain sections of the community. But there are not matters which go to the whole basis of unemployment. Clearly, as was said yesterday by  Senator Durack  in the paper on Wages Policy, which he tabled here, there is a nexus between inflation and unemployment and that nexus must be recognised. 
There is a limited amount of money which can be used. Those under 18 years of age are very often still at home. They still have help from parents and so forth. It is impossible to cope with benefits for all people at all times. I think this area is one where we must restrict the benefits. Likewise, it might be very nice if the child who leaves school received benefits in the period before the school resumes. But that is one of the options the Government has not been able to undertake. Therefore, I think we cannot expect at this stage that benefits will be adequate for all groups. We must choose those of most urgency. In regard to the position of unemployment, I refer to the fact that there is, of course, no policy of unemployment. A policy has been designed so to strengthen and improve the community that unemployment will wither as time goes on. I believe that great care must be exercised in the forthcoming 6 months or so in relation to the state of unemployment and of various groups in the community, particularly school leavers. 
In relation to the unemployed in the community, I hope I am not misunderstood; I recognise that this is an enormous problem. Many people are suffering considerably. But there are curious features of unemployment in the community and there are curious difficulties which many employers have in getting staff to serve them. Jobs are waiting unfilled. Of course, there is some desire by people to wait and choose some better job. Yesterday I received figures on unfilled vacancies in the Victorian Tramways organisation. There are 264 positions which cannot be filled. These jobs do not require great skill. But the organisation cannot find staff to fill them. Likewise I received figures yesterday from the Victorian Railways. In that service there are 215 unfilled jobs, including apprenticeships, at the present time. They cannot get people to fill those vacancies. This is a curious feature. 
Because included in our unemployed are many people who are choosy. There are people who prefer to stay on unemployment relief until something better comes up. That is not said to be the overall position or anything of the sort. I am making the point that it is most curious that time and again honourable senators hear of employers who cannot fill unskilled jobs. Sometimes they are jobs which require some shift work or something which is not terribly agreeable, but, in a situation of grave unemployment, it is surprising that people will not come forward to take these jobs. I make that point without over-emphasising it, but it is a point we have to remember. I do not think unions in this country are very concerned about their ex-members but, unemployment, unemployed. In their demands, many of which have been criticised, they do very often have a desire to look after their members, but very little thought is given to those who have left the ranks and lost their jobs and for whom the high demands that are made for wages sometimes makes it more difficult. 
One must take into account also that there will be 200 000 school leavers who will want jobs at the end of this year. In this area particularly, I think there will have to be some special measures. Unemployment of school leavers presents very grave dangers. There are dangers of demoralisation of people who are ready to work but find there is nothing to be done. The social dangers, the dangers to their morale, are matters which require special treatment. I am going to suggest some things that ought to be looked at, not as major programs but as extra programs to cover this area. There is a great danger that if school leavers are out of work for long periods they will lose the incentive to work, will not expect to work and it will be more difficult for them eventually to get into work. 
Because of the shortage of time, although I will not go down any rabbit holes I want to suggest some possibilities that ought to be looked at very closely. One of these possibilities is the extension of vocational training. A number of people leave school at an early age and a few years later realise that they want further training. We have to do our best to give them an opportunity to try again for a more useful way of life. We must find socially valuable work. 
There are roads to be made and other things that need to be done in this community and, where those projects are labour intensive and present an opportunity for employment, we have to concentrate on them. We have the National Employment and Training Scheme and we will no doubt need some extension of it to cater for school leavers. There is in the community idle building capacity and idle capital. It is not being used at present. In areas like this which may be non-inflationary and can lead to the using up of capital equipment, the Government needs to concentrate on trying to use up on a temporary basis these facilities in order to provide employment for school leavers. Rather than have people on unemployment relief it would be better if employers, who cannot economically employ someone, could be persuaded to employ people at a lower rate- this, of course, is if the unions would be prepared not to obstruct- as a temporary measure with the wages and salaries being supplemented by benefits being paid to the employees. In this way they would have jobs and employers would be playing their pan by subsidising employment. 
I also believe, and I referred to this in a question I asked in the Senate recently, that students who are completing courses of tertiary education and need experience ought to be able to get jobs with employers. Through contributions provided by the Government, employers could be persuaded to take them on and to give them training before they finish their degrees or courses of tertiary education. That is one area that ought to be looked at. 
It has been suggested to me that there are penalties on employers which discourage them from putting people on their staffs. For example, I do not think the payroll tax which the States now have, ought to be bigger. There is a case for grants to the States to enable them to move out of that area so that that type of tax, which I have always found in my experience to oe regressive and useless and one that discourages employers from putting on staff, can be eliminated. That would be a useful device. 1 put those suggestions forward in brief. 1 have no doubt that most of them have been heard by Ministers before but I record them because in regard to school leavers particularly, there will probably need to be some special extra measures while the economy improves and unemployment is decreasing. I do not think we can allow school leavers to be out of work for long periods. 1 turn very briefly to 3 aspects of the Budget where, I think there are matters unresolved and uncompleted and where perhaps the worst conclusions have been drawn by members of the Press and, of course, members of the Opposition. These areas are subject to reviews and consideration, and in a public relations sense, the Government has not gained the best publicity for its proposals. 
In the first place, I refer to grants to Aborigines and to what was immediately the conclusion of the Opposition and the Press that an amount of $33m was to be removed, that there was to be a reduction. One only has to read what was said in the Budget Speech to realise that what is happening is a reassessment of the efficacies of some of the approaches of the past. The Government will have the benefit of the Hay report and I, like other honourable senators, hope that the Hay report will be released. I hope that we will have it. Most members of the Opposition have copies of it but we do not. As we see changes taking place in Aboriginal programs, we will be able to judge them by the opinions of  Mr Hay.  1 hope also that the very solid opinions which have come forward in that massive and tremendously long-considered report of the committee headed by  Senator Bonner  will also be available. If we have that document we can judge the needs and I have no doubt that it will lead to additional expenditures and additional programs. However, it would be useful if we also had the Hay report. Although it was compiled in a much shorter time 1 hope the Government will release that document so that we can judge changes in policy on the basis of the evidence which is before the Government. 
I mention, in passing, that I have noted the submissions of the Aboriginal Advancement League of Victoria which sought $ 1 98,000 for its work and is apparently to receive only $64,000 in the Budget. Many honourable senators have received representations from that organisation and it does seem, on the surface, that the cut is very severe. There is good reason for thinking that organisations such as that which can practice self-help and work closely in the Aboriginal community ought to be treated generously and to be provided with reasonable funds with which to carry out their works. 
However, there is no suggestion of a $33m cut in programs. There are many programs being examined and although I think that, when we come to the final wash, this figure will probably be different, for the moment people have assumed that there will be a reduction of $33m. I hope that the examination of the programs is quickly done by the Government so that that assumption can be disabused. 
The second matter I raise is that of growth centres in which I have a great deal of interest. I will not go into detail except to say something about the Albury-Wodonga area which I visited not long ago and which I regard as one of the most promising and important developments in the history of this country. The Government has this project under review as part of a comprehensive review of all major urban and regional development programs. For the moment certain sums have been specified, including $15m for Albury-Wodonga. But I think we must bear in mind that the concept is not one that can sit in cold storage for any length of time at all. It is a concept of raising there a city of 300 000 people by the year 2000. It is an area which already has had much less unemployment than many other parts of Australia. It is an area in which there has been a great deal of interest. If one visits that site, one realises that it is a magnificent area in which a fine new series of satellite cities could be developed; in which experimentation in all kinds of areas could be undertaken; and which, I believe, would be a success under its own steam in a matter of a few years. 
I would like to quote at this stage from a report made by  Sir John  Overall in February this year, because I think this summarises the position rather well.  Sir John  made certain observations which I think are important. He said: 
Considerable financial investment has already been made both in physical commitments and in the acquisition of land. A firm on-going commitment is essential to promote full confidence in the public mind both nationally and locally and with private enterprise. 
He went on to say: 
Stop-go' financing of the new growth centre should be clearly avoided. This is costly to the taxpayer, destroys confidence and involves heavier costs in the long term, lt has been demonstrated elsewhere that once the 'take-off' point has been reached in a new centre the cost per head of housing an Australian family is considerably less than is the case in housing that family in a capital city. The  'take-off'  point in the Albury-Wodonga area should be achieved within the first 5 years of the Corporation 's operations. 
Already, of course, something like $90m has been spent. Already, of course, the Commonwealth has contributed substantially to that project and the States have contributed all kinds of services and so forth, although I think it is suggested that the States actually should contribute more. I find it a little sad to see that the Victorian Budget provision for this growth centre this year is only $1,100,000. I believe that it is important, as  Sir John  Overall says, that there should not be an interregnum. 
I have seen there the industrial sites which people, at the moment, are waiting to decide whether they will take up. This is a situation that requires confidence and statements by all the governments involved. I hope that in fact the project will proceed. I point out to the Senate that the businessmen of Albury-Wodonga recently were reported as receiving a massive groundswell of support in their fight for the growth centre. The report stated: 
Today's meeting was much bigger than our inaugural meeting on Monday, ' . . . 
Both meetings have given unequivocal support to the growth centre'. 
The spokesman for the group pointed out the damage that could be done by delay. The report concluded: 

 Mr Wallace the leader of the groupstressed  that the Albury/Wodonga complex did not want grants- it required some long-term loan funds to provide a framework in which private enterprise could develop the area. 
I think that is indicative of that area. I hope that the project will not be allowed to fall between the 2 stools of Federal and State governments, but that both areas quickly will accept the responsibility for keeping the growth centre going. 
I come to my third example of areas which are of some worry because they are uncertain areas under the Budget, namely, the community health centres area. For example, the amount included in the Budget for such centres in Victoria is $15m, which is an increase from $10m. The States have indicated to the community health centre organisations, which want to build and which have been promised money for some years now, that no further ventures will be financed this year. One cannot go into detail on this. Last week I visited a centre at St Albans which has plans to build- plans which it has changed over the years to accord with a more limited development prescribed by the Commonwealth and State governments. This organisation has been promised moneys and is operating in most temporary and unsatisfactory premises. It would be a great shame if money were not used in such areas, in a non-inflationary way, to encourage the building of community health centres which could be operative in the relatively near future. One should speak at length to do justice to such a subject. This is an area which is being transferred from the Commonwealth to the States. I hope that in the process it does not fail to realise the expectations of the people involved. 
Finally, I want to say a word about Australia's position in respect of foreign trade. Having recently been abroad and seen and heard from one country after another of the difficulties that this country has in not being able to sell its products and in it being able to compete so well on international markets, I worry about suggestions such as that made by  Mr Hawke  the other day to the effect that our trade unions might block our trade with New Zealand, not for any political reason in Australia but for a political reason in New Zealand. This amounts to a double offence to the community. It is proposed that there be a political strike, but a political strike about another country. It is clear that inflation should be the really important issue in this community when our exports are as dependent on our solving this problem at an early stage. It is important that we build up new markets, for example in Israel, and not submit to the boycotts which the Arabs are insisting on imposing on many countries. We need expansion in Europe and even, as suggested to me in Russia, trade ought to be possible with Siberia. There are probably many areas in which more adventure is needed. But, above all, if we are ever to succeed we have to stop the escalation of our prices which is excluding us from all world markets. 
I hope that in this short period, I have indicated some constructive suggestions, general support for the whole venture which this Government is about in this Budget, and a belief that the Budget should succeed. But that success will depend on some goodwill on all sides of the community. Long term recovery will mean that we will have the money to return to a much more generous provision of" social welfare schemes which many of us on both sides of the chamber find extremely important. Therefore, I support the Budget and urge the Government to maintain a flexible position. I believe that the Budget strategy generally will succeed. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Durack)  adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to the matter of differential pay rates in the Australian defence forces, which I raised in this House on 5 November last year. Is the Minister aware that a pay rate differential of 20 per cent still exists between male and female Army officers? In view of the policy of equal pay in the defence forces recommended in 1971, can the Minister give an assurance that this matter will receive urgent consideration? 
I address my question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I refer to a statement made by the Minister in which he said that the Australian Tourist Commission should be able to reduce the rapidly increasing gap between Australia's foreign exchange earnings from tourism and the amounts spent by Australian 's travelling overseas. I ask: What measures does the Minister envisage that the Commission could undertake to decrease this differential? What are the terms of reference of the committee which the Minister indicated he would appoint to study the problems of the tourist industry? When can the first report of that committee be expected? 
It has been my fate recently in debates to follow  Senator Mulvihill.  (Quorum formed.)  I am thankful to have such a huge audience to listen to my speech. As I said, it is my fate on occasions to follow  Senator Mulvihill.  Unfortunately tonight I can follow him in one sense but not in another because his speech had very little relevance to this debate and for that I am heartily thankful. I was very interested to hear from him that the shape of a soccer ball has no political context. I am also pleased to know that he has nothing against  Sir Henry  Bland. In that situation he puts himself in a category different from members on that side of the chamber and that puts him on a higher plane altogether. 
In the course of this debate one has heard Opposition speakers generally commence their speeches by reading out the motion before the Chair. It is necessary that this should be done because the rest of their speeches have borne no resemblance to the motion. I will read the motion as well to remind those who have come into the chamber what we are talking about. The motion states: 
The failure - 
The alleged failure-  of the Government to ensure the independence, integrity and high repute of Australia's National Broadcasting Service. 
During the night we have heard some denigrationOpposition senators were encouraged in this- of  Sir Henry  Bland who is one of the great public servants of this country. It may be unnecessary at this late stage of the debate to go completely through the arguments, such as they are, that have been advanced by the Opposition. To a great extent  Senator Button's  arguments were knocked down by  Senator Carrick.  Perhaps if we throw away one or two of the  Alvin Purple  patches in  Senator Button's  speech and look again, there are one or two things that ought to be said in reply to what I think was one of the very disgraceful statements that have been heard in this chamber this year. 
We heard  Senator Button  say that you judge a  Chairman  of the ABC by the fact that there have been 25 cartoons about him recently. It has been pointed out that many illustrious leaders of the Labor Party have scored so much better in that way and that during the period that the ABC has been established it has been quite customary and quite healthy for newspapers and other people in the community to poke fun occasionally at the ABC and to criticise that body. It is believed that this is one of the healthy signs of democracy in this country. If  Senator Button  is trying to plant upon us some new gallup poll whereby we judge according to the number of cartoons of leading public figures in this country that we like or dislike, this new idea is interesting but not useful. 
I do not like you to refer to  Senator Button  in that way. 
I do agree with you that Mickey Mouse would win. In addition,  Senator Button  did not quite have the courage to go on, although he did tend to refer to  Sir Henry  Bland's fine public record in this community over many, many years as perhaps a past which was a fable. But he did not proceed so far as did courageous senators like  Senator Walsh  and  Senator Ryan  who attacked and derogated from the actual public performance as a public servant of this man who has served his country for many years on a public platform where things were known, where activities were known by the people and where in fact those activities were judged to be suitable and desirable. The record is open to the public. 

 Senator Button in concluding his speech endeavoured to tell the Senate that the commissioners who are meeting tomorrow ought to consider the morale and the disputes in the ABC and endeavour to ascertain what are the matters in respect of which they have discretion and power to deal with under the Act. The whole of this debate today, of course, is predicated on the situation that the members of the Opposition hope to influence the Commissioners and hope to influence the  Chairman  by reason of the scurrilous attacks which they have made today. Nobody, for one moment, will ignore the timing of this debate and the fact that the ABC- undirected and unadvised by the Government- will proceed tomorrow to have a meeting to make what decisions it thinks fit. 
The case put forward in the opening of this debate was disgraceful and one of which the Senate cannot be proud. In the reply which the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  made to the opening case of the Opposition, a significant event took place- that is, some interjections made by  Senator Georges  disclosed what was in fact the reality of the Opposition's argument.  Senator Georges  said that it was the appointment of  Sir Henry  Bland about which he was concerned. He said: 'It is the incompetence of the appointee that we are complaining about. ' 

 - Senator Georges said that it was the incompetence of the appointee. What I have just said was said by  Senator Baume  and it was not disputed when he said it.  Senator Georges  made it clear that that was what he was complaining about. 
-I thought that  Senator Georges  said that it was the incompetence of the appointee but  Senator Georges  now says that it is not so, that it was in fact the incompetence of the appointment. Now, some months later, the Opposition has decided that this is what it particularly wants to attack. It has attacked someone who has great ability, who was appointed to this job and who follows a line of many other  chairman  of the ABC who have not been weak men, have not been insignificant men and have not been the sort of men on whom we would expect governments to put pressure. People who have been appointed to this position- 1 include  Sir Henry  Bland in this- are people who have been shown to have character, some ability and minds of their own and who will not be susceptible to pressures by governments or Oppositions in this way. 
In the course of this debate we also heard from  Senator Douglas  McClelland, who gave, I suppose, what one might describe as an obituary for the ABC. It was a sad account but  Senator Douglas  McClelland managed to point out how much he had done for the ABC in his period of ministry. 
My friend says 'modesty'. Perhaps it was not modesty but none the less, we heard from  Senator Douglas  McClelland an attack again on the basis that the  Chairman  of the ABC was engaged in polarisation and division in the Commission. The  Chairman  of the 
ABC is one of many Commissioners. The Commissioners have been appointed by successive governments. Most of those Commissioners have been appointed by the Labor Government. They are the people who control and determine the standards and carry out the functions which they are given under the Act. To suggest that one person in the Commission is somehow predominant or a dictator, as one honourable senator said, is nonsense. The Commission meets tomorrow to make determinations as it normally does and it will, I trust, continue to guide well the fortunes of the ABC. 
The next  speaker  from the Opposition was  Senator Walsh.  He came to us with his usual parade of abuse and his claims of behaviour- of which he has a great stock- which he constantly brings to our attention.  Senator Walsh  was concerned because we criticised his abuse of privilege in this House- the fact that he was as determined as his other colleagues to attack the  Chairman  of the ABC who, of course, could not at this time or in this place in any way answer those criticisms.  Sir Henry  Bland could not be expected to enter into a public debate in this issue. But this did not stop  Senator Walsh.  This did not stop him from calling the  Chairman  of the ABC an  ipso facto  dictator of the ABC who was put there to stifle criticism. It is this very idea that the Labor Party in this Senate must get over. It must get over the idea that everything is done for a sinister reason and that someone who is appointed to such a position as this- a man who has been an eminent public servant, who has served his country well and who has been on companies and on boards- is appointed only for a sinister purpose.  His  membership of companies and boards has been the subject of criticism, but I put it that it was because of his experience that he was appointed.  Senator Walsh,  of course, went through a catalogue of criticism and I think the most puerile of all was his attack on  Sir Henry  Bland's Garran memorial lecture in 1975 when he said that in the ABC one must be sensitive of political thought and action.  Senator Walsh  thinks this is bad whereas I would suggest that any person who is  chairman  of the ABC must obviously be sensitive and understanding of political thought and action. He could not go into such a position unless he was familiar with the currents and the problems of the community. That is a qualification and not a disqualification. 
I say to  Senator Ryan,  who was so concerned with the Chairman's possible political activities, that I do not know of  Sir Henry  Bland's political activities. In fact, he has not had any active political life. Professor Downing,  Sir Henry  Bland 's predecessor who is now deceased, was a man who, in fact, signed the advice for a change of government in 1 972.I do not criticise him. I think that that was his public right to do so. Professor Downing had political ideas and at that stage had a political view. He obviously voted in a certain political way and made it known publicly. The Opposition did not criticise Professor Downing. He was of course, also sensitive of political thought and action.  Sir Henry  Bland did not make that sort of public statement at any time in his long public career. 
In this debate we ought to remember certain salient factors. We ought to remember that we have an independent ABC. Parties on this side of the Chamber in their platforms about which  Senator Baume  has spoken, in their statements in this House, in a statement made yesterday by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  have indicated that they stand for the independence and integrity of the ABC and that they will not try to interfere with its running. The Government is aware of the obligations which are imposed upon the ABC Commissioners under the Act and it will not try to interfere. We realise that other statutory corporations like this are set up in the community. They are set up for various important purposes. I should like to refer to something that was said by the Rt  Hon.  Herbert Morrison, M.P. I would think that his remarks would be acceptable to the Opposition. In speaking about the reasons for establishing statutory corporations he said: 
We seek to combine the principle of public ownership, of a broad but not too detailed public accountability, of a consciousness on the part of the undertaking that it is working for the nation and not for sectional interests, with the liveliness, initiative and considerable degree of freedom of a quick-moving and progressive business enterprise. 
I believe that the ABC is capable of doing that. It has been doing that and it will continue to do that. I believe, therefore, that in this rather long and somewhat deplorable debate today we have heard enough criticism, we have heard enough of attempts to stand over a leading public figure, we have heard enough of the Oppositions ' miserable case against the ABC, and, apparently of the Government in this instance. I move: 
That the question be now put. 

<graphic href="069232197609153_44_1_3_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="069232197609153_44_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="069232197609153_44_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put- 
That the motion  (Senator Button's)  be agreed to. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. No doubt he would agree that it is very desirable, if we are to have strong government, that we also have strong opposition, and opposition where we can clearly understand where the leadership is. He will probably agree also that we need choice as far as possible in this community, as our Liberal philosophy advocates. Does he see any reference or possible reference to this aspect in the current predicament of  Mr Robert  Hawke who appears to find no possibility of getting into these august chambers? Has the Government considered in any way the possibility, since the Labor Party will not make any supreme sacrifices, that we on this side might make a sacrifice to find a place for  Mr Hawke  so that the Labor Party may have some choice in leadership? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I believe that yesterday similar questions were asked by honourable senators from the other side of the House. In fact, I prevented  Senator McLaren  from asking a supplementary question of this nature. I do not like them any more than honourable senators do. I leave it to the good sense of honourable senators. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the new announcement by Indonesia that it has closed off waters around East Timor and that it will fire on any trespassing foreign ships. I refer to recent reports in London and Australian newspapers of continued heavy fighting in East Timor, new atrocities, and casualties and unrest in the Indonesian armed forces engaged in fighting the Fretilin forces. Does this Government's inquiries indicate that these statements are correct? Are substantial teritories and a substantial part of the population still under the control of" the Fretilin Government? In the circumstances, does the Government intend to reinforce its previously expressed attitude towards the invasion of East Timor, the removal of Indonesian forces, the need for a genuine act of free choice by the inhabitants and the humanitarian need for the immediate presence of the impartial International Red Cross and other aids to the suffering population? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Have complaints been made that the viability of the leather goods, carpet, and freezer industries appear to have been severely jeopardised by New Zealand imports and that the New Zealand commodities are imported under most advantageous conditions created by the exchange rate and export incentives. 
Can the Minister give an assurance, in view of the recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission for a tariff protection made over a year ago, that the Government will give immediate attention to this inequitable situation. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I ask: Is it a fact that last week's report by Professor E. S. R. Hughes on behalf of a working party on the organisation of clinical services in Canberra hospitals has not recommended any solution to the personal animosity extending over 2 years between private doctors and salaried doctors in the Australian Capital Territory? Is it true, as claimed in the  Canberra Times  this morning, that decisions as to new medical equipment could be vetoed because of political differences between doctors rather than on medical grounds, and that personal animosities are likely to continue under the working party's proposals? What is the Minister for Health proposing to do in the near future to avoid dangers arising out of this civil war between doctors to the health of Canberra residents, not to mention any member of this Parliament who may have the misfortune to fall sick in this city? 
-I present the sixth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
I present a report on the outstanding references of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and move: 
That the report be printed. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to move a motion for an extension of time for the Committee to report on the alterations of the law made by the Misrepresentation Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory and the Manufacturers Warranties Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory. 
-This is the second Bill this year which seeks to amend the Family Law Act.  Senator Button  has made a case against some parts of the Bill. I do not think that he made a very good case, but he put forward some arguments against the provisions in regard to costs. That is not to say that this legislation, which of course is non-party legislation and which in my opinion in all its basic principles is a non-party measure, should not be considered. It must be considered, as must its amendments, in that style. Any important provisions or any amendment which went against the principles of the Act would be something that members of this chamber would certainly be entitled to consider and not agree with if they saw fit to do so. 

 Senator Button bases his argument particularly against court fees on the view that this is the thin end of the wedge. I do not accept this for one moment. I recognise that what will have to follow this Act is a regulation to impose, as we are told by the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott),  a fee of $60. I think that can be said to be somewhat equivalent to fees that did apply in earlier times. If in fact another regulation came along proposing greatly increased fees I for one would find very great difficulty in accepting or supporting such a proposition. It would be a matter, of course, which we in this chamber would be entided to consider. 
We see that in fact a fee of $60 is proposed. So far as the imposition of the fee is concerned I probably more than any other person would have some reservations about the reintroduction of fees in this jurisdiction. One problem which I hope will at least be overcome when the amendment is passed is the probability that only one fee will apply and therefore there will be the risk that a considerable amount of machinery will be required for audit and other accounting services. I am assured that this is not expected to be very great but I think it should be watched carefully. 
Suggestions have been made to the AttorneyGeneral that this fee should be imposed in some way by stamp and that it should not be something requiring the setting up of some financial organisation in the family courts at considerable expense. I hope that those suggestions will be taken very carefully into consideration. I certainly have some reservations about the expression of the court fee in the second reading speech. I thought that  Senator Button  would have at least come to this point because the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Durack)  in his second reading speech said: 
The Government decided to impose this fee in order to provide funds which will contribute to meeting the rising cost of legal aid. 
I do not regard that as a sound reason. I do not regard it as desirable and just that people who are instituting proceedings should be expected to bear the cost of someone else 's legal aid. If in this community there is a need- and there is a needfor a great deal of legal aid, whether it is $ 10m a year or $ 100m a year, to help people who otherwise are not able to get to a court the community has an obligation to provide this aid. Take the case of  Mrs Smith  who applies for a divorce and is able to pay a fee which under this legislation is not to be paid by some people who are in need or who are legal aid customers. If she is able to afford the fee, in my view she is under no obligation to pay the legal aid of  Mrs Jones  who is a legal aid customer and who is not able to pay the fee. There is no reason why one citizen in this situation, because he or she is instituting divorce proceedings, should be obliged to pay for the legal aid of some other people. 
I have said that, senator. I have said that the community must pay for legal aid. You and I must do that. The people in this community who believe in justice and equality before the law have an obligation to pay our share of it. But the woman or man who is instituting a divorce case is under no extra obligation to provide for the legal aid of the community. I would have thought that  Senator Button  would have come to that principle and would have been critical. 
-That is true, senator. But the trouble is that I am afraid there are other reasons - 
Of course there are fees in some areas and no fees in others. As we know, there is no regularity about this question through the various courts of the land. But as I say, the reason given for the size of the fee is to pay for legal aid. I do not regard that as a sound reason advanced in the second reading speech. The Minister went on to say in his second reading speech: 
It is normal to pay a fee for being married, sometimes in excess of $30. 
I do not know whether that is an argument. That amount for being divorced is twice as much. I do not know whether that justifies the differential between the two. The Minister then stated some words which I think are important. He said: 
Having in mind the facilities provided by the Family Court, a fee of $60 is not regarded as excessive. 
There I think must surely be the reason why this fee is imposed. It is a fee that is imposed under the Budget. The Government has made a decision that certain extra moneys need to be collected. I may not like the particular fee. I may not like various impositions. But it is a judgment by the Government as to where moneys are to come from. I would suggest that there is reason when one takes into account that the cost of maintaining this court with all of the new facilities is something like $ 1 lm a year. In view of this there is a reason for saying that those facilities may have to be paid for by those who have the ability to do so. For that reason and because it is a Budget Bill I would find this charge acceptable and one which one would support in this particular case. 
I would like to say that the other reforms that are in this Bill are, of course, desirable. These reforms are set out in the second reading speech. They are designed to pick up problems which have arisen and where changes have been found to be necessary. I think that they cover two or three of the problems quite efficiently. In general it is necessary to have the family court operating in the best possible way, as I think this Bill provides. It is necessary that we should also remember that a great deal of difficulty has been caused as a result of a recent High Court decision. There is the problem that one can no longer say that custody can entirely be dealt with in the Family Court. There is a split between the Family Court and the State courts. This situation surely cannot be left in its present situation. I hope that the negotiations which the Attorney-General is having with the States will lead to a very sensible and broad view. 

 Senator Button, of course, hopes that the States can give the reference of power to the Commonwealth. But it might be years before that happens. It is much more likely that some of the States will decide that there ought to be State courts operating with a full jurisdiction and that they therefore should be able to deal with children whether they be legitimate or illegitimate, deal in cases involving property, whether that property is involved in the marriage or not, and deal with rights to maintenance by illegitimate children so that children are not distinguished in their dealings with the courts. Despite all the facilities which are being provided by the Family Court I believe that there is a need for more courts and for more judges to go out into the country and provide services closer to home. These things will take money. The courts will cost money. The Government has determined that there ought to be a fee of $60. 1 hope it will be applied logically towards the costs of the courts and not in any way ascribed to legal aid. With that reservation, I support the Bill. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the recent action by Telecom officials and other Government officers at Darwin in confiscating the transmitter which provided communication with the resisting Fretilin forces in Timor. Does the Government agree that such government action may well lead to the false assumption by the Indonesian authorities that the Australian Government desires to suppress the disclosure, to Australians and the world, of continued fierce resistance by the East Timorese and of continued Indonesian atrocities in East Timor? What does the Government intend to do to ensure that the Australian public has full access to facts relating to the Timor situation and is not dependent on Indonesian propaganda for news of the war in East Timor? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, or the Minister for Health, or the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, all of whom may be involved in this matter. Is the Minister aware that duty free shops at Australian airports stock only a few brands of cigarettes, all of which have extremely high tar content? In view of the Government's consistent policy of discouraging the promotion of tobacco sales because of tobacco's association with lung cancer, will the Minister take steps to see that the duty free shops at least stock competing popular brands of cigarettes which have an acknowledged low tar content? 
I would also like to say a few words on the matter raised by  Senator Wheeldon.  As I did not know the matter was to be raised tonight, I am afraid my contribution must be expressions without much consideration. I think all in this Parliament have been concerned in general for a year now about what is happening to what was one of the most important democracies in the world- India. I recall discussing with the head of Amnesty International only a few weeks ago while I was in the Soviet Union the situation in which people who believe in democracy in that country found themselves. The point was made to me that in fact they may be a very small minority in the Soviet Union but also that those who believe in democratic rights are now in a minority in the world. We in the world in that category are in a minority now and therefore there is more need for us to raise our voice when we see another country unfortunately removing itself from the democratic process. 
I believe that all members, particularly those in the Amnesty organisation in this Parliament, have been concerned for some considerable time at what is obviously a train of events which we have seen time and again in other countries. We see it happening in India. Perhaps one should emphasise the fact that the right of free speech and the right of the Press in India- it was an important and valuable Press- are being quickly taken away from the Indian people. It is clear that in a country of that size the opportunity the Press was able to give of expressing all kinds of different views- political, religious and otherwiseis terribly vital to the people of that country. Obviously it is a matter which is under complete challenge. 
I congratulate  Senator Wheeldon  on raising this matter tonight in the calm and sensible way in which he has done. He is quite right in saying that no good is to be served by our berating the Indians at this time. It is important that we press them firmly though, pointing out what was possible, what were the traditions under which that country was formed, and what were those things which its first leaders regarded as vital to the Indian people. I think it is important that those of us who live in a part of the world where democracy continues should be making a lot of noiseconstructive noise- and getting in touch with India and other countries in which this retreat from democracy is taking place. Therefore, as one Government senator representing, I believe,, the views of most honourable senators on this side of the chamber, I join in saying that these matters are well raised tonight by  Senator Wheeldon.  I hope that we will be quite active in our fight for democracy in India. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I refer to reports claiming that the practice of petrol sniffing is becoming a major drug addiction problem among Aboriginal children and adolescents in the Northern Territory. Is the Minister aware that this practice, evidently aggravated considerably by a sense of cultural disorientation, is believed to account for over 90 per cent of juvenile crime in that area? Are measures such as counselling and rehabilitation programs being considered to alleviate this serious problem? 
(Victoria)- I ask leave to make a personal explanation. I claim to have been misrepresented. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce who may answer it either in his substantive role or as Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. I refer to the recent controversy in the United States of America where, it is reported, some 1 1 000 American companies have been threatened by the Arab boycott arising out of trade with Israel and where it is further reported that some 10 000 of those companies have given in to the threat. I ask the Minister whether there is information available as to the number of Australian companies that have been likewise threatened by boycott because of trade or possible trade with Israel, including the names of companies that have in fact given way to such threats. I ask the Minister to make available to the public the names of all companies that have given way to such threats made by extremists and terrorists groups so that the public can judge whether it should give support to such companies or rather to other companies which have withstood the threat of boycott 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the number of motherless families living in Australia and, in particular, families with children under 16 years of age. 
If this information is not available, are similar figures available in respect to the United States of America or the United Kingdom for recent years. 
Under the Family Law Act, since it came into operation on 5 January 1976, how many actions for maintenance have been undertaken by husbands against wives in respect to maintenance of children and how many have succeeded. 
In respect to such motherless families, how many parents have (a) sought and (b) received a special benefit under the Social Services Act during the last two years in respect to assistance in the maintenance of their children, specifying the numbers in each State where such benefits have been obtained. 
-I am very pleased to join in this motion of condolence today, and to pay tribute to my long-standing friend and colleague,  Senator Greenwood.  I do not repeat the things which have been said about his fine career and his political career in this chamber because they have been well said by members of this chamber and by the leaders of the parties.  His  achievements are known to us and I think they are known to Australians. 
I would like to say a few words about Ivor Greenwood personally and record them at this time because I think I can claim to have known him probably longer than any member of this chamber, to have been his friend for over 30 years and to have been associated with him for so many years of his life, prior to the short period we were together in this chamber. We met as students at Melbourne University, where he succeeded me as  President  of the University Liberal Club and went on to have a very successful university career and including a full involvement in student politics generally. I saw then that he had the determination and the great desire to serve his country in the way in which he thought was best for the country. Later in the Young Liberal movement, in which I enjoyed a very close association with him for many years, I saw not only his intense interest in politics and political issues and causes for which we fought together for so many years but also his very great enjoyment of social life and sporting life- because he was, all round, a man who was capable of enjoying life and its various aspects. He was no narrow person in any sense at all. 
Later, on the Liberal Party executive, one saw again the way in which he fought for principles and causes. For years, before he became a member of Parliament, as an organisation man, he was at all times intensely interested in the Liberal organisation and its future and he worked for it at all times. Over 10 years he competed with success in interstate debating competitions, winning with his colleagues State and national championships. This laid the foundation for a great debating career which, of course, he was also exploiting in a career in law, with great credit to him. 
In the course of all the various associations that I had with Ivor Greenwood I noticed qualities that I think stood out, and they have been mentioned in part today. He was always of the belief that he could serve his country and do something useful for his country. He believed in the ideas he was speaking about and he fought for them to the extent of his strength, and unfortunately beyond his strength, as we have seen. But it is to his credit that he tried and did achieve the things he sought to achieve. His integrity has been spoken of a number of times today and it is good to repeat it because it was a fundamental feature of Ivor Greenwood that he had integrity- that in his intellectual ability and his arguments there was integrity. In his personal life there was integrity. His personal life was based, I think, fundamentally on the fact that he came from a very fine family. His parents are most worthy Australian citizens and fine people whom I numbered among my friends. They and other members of his family helped to make him the man he was in the community and the man he was in politics. He had a strong Christian belief. This has been mentioned. He at all times maintained that belief and he lived worthily by it. I think it will certainly be to his credit in the eyes of us all and in the eyes of someone who probably has a greater power to do something about it. 
Apart from these things there was about him kindness and consideration which might not have been seen so easily by the public because that was not a side that was open to the public gaze. He was thoughtful about people. He performed many acts of kindness to people. He was very popular in his circle of friends. He was greatly thought of. It was not just because he was a political figure that he was liked; he was liked because of the man that he indeed was. He had a conscientiousness which I think was so great that one saw its effects in the days before he took sick. At that time he was indeed very exhausted and he was working harder than he should but he was determined to make a success and carry out valuable work both in his portfolio and in the Parliament. This wore him beyond the strength which anyone could muster. 
I knew him well as a lawyer and I knew the respect in which he was held as a lawyer in Victoria and also outside Victoria as a result of his work on the Law Council. As a lawyer, he was conscientious in his work. He was not a man who probably made a lot of money out of the law. He was a very conscientious lawyer who worked extremely quickly and effectively. Therefore, he took cases which involved a lot of work but were not necessarily those that brought one easy fortune. In all these areas he was a man who worked extremely hard and he earned very great credit from those who were associated with him in the law. I believe he will be remembered for the things he has done. I think and I hope he will be remembered by us in this Parliament, and by those who have been associated with him, for his integrity and for all we have gained from knowing him. 
My wife, friends and associates in Melbourne and the people in Victoria generally will pay to his wife, Lola, great tribute. We feel for her today. We have felt for her during the long period of sickness which she has seen and which she has suffered with such bravery and with such wonderful spirit. She is a great credit to the country and a great credit to Ivor. We all extend to her our deepest feelings in this great time of need. Ivor's life was short but it was a good life worthy of being remembered by all those who had any association with him. I hope it will be remembered as a fine example of a fine Australian. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. Is it a fact that delays in the hearings of applications by the Family Courts are increasing and that the number of unheard applications is increasing in Melbourne at the rate of approximately 60 a month? Is the same situation developing in other Family Courts? Is it also a fact that the estimated delay in the hearing of defended cases is now approaching 2 years, which is nearly as long as the delays under the old Matrimonial Causes Act? What is the Government proposing to do by way of further appointments to the Family Court of Australia to alleviate this situation? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Is he aware of complaints by Amnesty International and other organisations concerning the actions of the military regime in the Philippines and the imprisonment and torture of political opponents, including the treatment of the Opposition Leader,  Senator Aquinos?  Has the Australian Government made any representations in respect of these complaints? Does the Minister envisage any action that Australia might take to influence the regime 's treatment of political prisoners, including a review of any foreign aid or other assistance to the Philippines? 
-Has the Minister representing the Treasurer noted the suggestions made by  Mr E.  G. Whitlam in the last week or so about a 5-point program to cure the economic ills of this country? Has the Government given any thought to the program? Has the Minister also noted that as of yesterday the 5-point program appeared to be reduced by one point, with the elimination of the proposed constitutional amendment in relation to prices under the benign influence of  Mr Hawke?  Is the Government impressed by this example of deflation in action by reducing his program so quickly? Is the Government impressed at all? 
Is the Minister for Science aware of the  Four Corners  program on Saturday, 16 October, regarding the declining level of expenditure in Australia on industrial research and development? Is he concerned about this situation, and is any action proposed to arrest this trend? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware of reports that several doctors are currently being prosecuted for defrauding Medibank? I ask generally whether the Minister envisages alterations to the regulations, such as a provision for closer scrutiny of billing procedures, to ensure that fraudulent activities are prevented or made less likely to succeed. 
I present the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on its inquiry into the retiring age of judges. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 Senator MISSEN (Victoria)-by leave-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
In considering the reference the Committee had to consider, firstly, whether it was necessary to amend the Constitution in order to introduce a retiring age for Commonwealth judges and, secondly, whether it was appropriate to fix a retiring age. While one member of the Committee felt that the Parliament might be able to legislate successfully to impose a retiring age for Commonwealth judges, the majority of the Committee was of the opinion that it was essential to amend the Constitution to achieve this purpose. 
The Committee, having reviewed the practice in Australia and in other countries, concluded that there was a growing acceptance of the need for a compulsory retiring age for judges. The Committee was unanimous in its recommendations that the Constitution should be amended to fix a retiring age of 70 for judges of the High Court and that Parliament should be empowered to prescribe a retiring age forjudges of the other Federal courts. The Committee recommended that an appropriate retiring age for the other Federal courts would be 65. The Committee recommended that these changes should not affect existing judges but should apply to all judges appointed after the amendment to the Constitution was made. The Committee noted that it was not necessary for the Constitution to be amended in order to prescribe the retiring age for judges of the Territory courts and recommended that the provisions for the appointment and retirement of Territory judges be made uniform. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Devitt)  adjourned. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware that the National Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation has not met since May 1976 and that a backlog of work is accumulating? When does the Minister envisage the Committee will next meet to deal with that backlog? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Have reports emanating from the National Congress of the Returned Services League of Australia urged the Government to (a) build a nuclear reactor so that it can manufacture nuclear weapons, (b) reintroduce conscription to raise the strength of the Army to 38 000 men, and (c) double defence expenditure so that not less than 5 per cent of gross domestic product is spent on defence; if so, has a reply been made on behalf of the Government. 
What was the content of any such reply. 
-I present the 7th report from the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Is the Minister aware of recent criticisms by environmental groups that the National Parks and Wildlife Service has been stripped of most of its staff and 'restricted to being purely an advisory body to State authorities'? Can the Minister comment on those criticisms and can he assure the Senate that this service will play an increasing and positive role in developing national parks and preserving the wildlife of this country? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to reports that certain companies require their executives to undergo compulsory health checks and that these companies then avoid payment by subsequently requiring the employee concerned to pay the bill and seek reimbursement from Medibank. Is the Minister aware of this practice? If so, are steps being taken to stop its occurrence? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the turnover of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission in the last financial year and what was the monetary cost of its advertising expenditure. 
On a cost benefit basis what increase in usage of the Commission's services can in any way be attributed to such advertising expenses. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community 
Development. I refer to the report in the  Australian  of 9 November regarding the catching by Taiwanese operators of more than 1 million giant clams per year from an area within the Great Barrier Reef and the estimate by  Dr Endean,  vice-president of the Great Barrier Reef Committee, that at least 40 Taiwanese boats have been operating regularly in this area. What action is proposed to safeguard the ecology of the Great Barrier Reef and to avoid the extinction of these giant clams? What action can the Government take to prevent this continued poaching in Australian waters? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. Can he inform the Senate whether the applications for export development grants applicable for the year 1975-76 are being approved? If so, can the Minister say when these payments to exporters will commence? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware that the annual conference of the National Organisation for Reform of Marihuana Law is being held in Washington, District of Columbia, United States of America on 10 and 12 December 1976? Have any steps been taken to send a suitably qualified Australian delegate to attend this conference' to gather the latest information available from the United States of America at this centrally organised forum? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of complaints by Amnesty International and other organisations concerning the actions of the military regime in the Philippines and the imprisonment and torture of political opponents, including the treatment of the Opposition Leader,  Senator Aquino. 
Has the Australian Government made any representations in respect of these complaints. 
Does the Minister envisage any action that Australia might take to influence the regime's treatment of political prisoners, including a review of any foreign aid or other assistance to the Philippines. 
-Did the Minister for Social Security read a report in the  Australian  newspaper of 15 November that the New South Wales Minister for Youth and Community Services,  Mr Jackson,  has called a meeting next Friday of State Ministers responsible for social welfare to discuss the future of the Australian Assistance Plan? Is the Minister aware of the concern of several of the State Ministers that the Australian Assistance Plan or an equivalent State plan will fail unless there is a continued financial contribution by the Commonwealth to its support? Is the Minister considering making a positive response to the States to ensure that this 3-year experiment in community involvement in social development will not be destroyed? 
I enter this debate briefly to say that I do not think for one moment that the proposition  Senator Cavanagh  has just put is a reasonable one. Quite apart from what the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  said - 
-No, I do not agree with that. I do not think it is in any way a reasonable interpretation. It is quite clear, I suggest, that under this part of the clause there must be a real association with local government. It is intended to have somebody who has such an association. Clause 4(b) (i) uses the words: 
Associated with local government . . . whether as a member of a local governing body or otherwise. 
I think it would be reasonable to assume that somebody who had been on a local council, who had gone off the council and who was not at the time on the local council would come within the meaning of the word 'otherwise'. To suggest that the word 'otherwise' means any other person with no association at all - 
No, I am not assuming anything. I am saying that it is stretching the meaning of these words far too much to say that on any normal interpretation of a provision that such a person must be associated with local government and also that he may be a member of local government or otherwise means that it - 
-That is true. The Minister has explained why it has been left - 
-I think any Minister would be satisfied and would be advised by his advisers that this clause meant that it had to be a real association with local government- some experience- although it does not necessarily mean - 
Such as someone who has been on a local council for 20 years but is not on it now. 
-It does not say that, but it also includes some people who perhaps were employed for some period; people who were not in fact members of the council but perhaps were leading officials, such as the town clerk. 
-Yes, that could be. I think that any interpretation of this part of the clause as including a garbage man, or somebody who has no association with the administration of local government, is a quite absurd and extreme interpretation. I do not think the clause is entitled to be considered in that way. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs who is also the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Women's Affairs. I refer to the report in the  Australian  of 15 November 1976 which alleges that women are being discriminated against in their dealings with banks, especially by the imposition of discriminatory interest rates on loans. Does the Minister intend to inquire into this matter in any way? 
-I bring up the eighth report from the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
I note that  Senator Mulvihill  started and completed his speech with analogies. The first related to cricket. He expressed some difficulty about getting to the pitch- it did not seem to me that he had much of a problem. After all, this debate had been postponed for some time. I remind him that it was not postponed overnight, as is an ordinary cricket match. The second day was washed out by rain- by a veritable flood of education Bills. Therefore it is quite a long time since we tried to get this debate under way. I thought he, in his speech, particularly 2 nights ago, showed a very fair attitude to the Bill. He spoke about some of the delays. He said that the Bill to establish the Australian Heritage Commission was passed last year, but that the Commission came into operation only in July of this year. He said: 
It may be argued that the Whitlam Government was slow in finalising appointments to the Commission. I know that  Mr Uren  spent a considerable time seeking ideal personnel. Because people whom a government may want to appoint to a body are not immediately available and because of a desire to blend in a whole host of experts, it takes time to tool up. 
I, as a Government senator, feel inclined to be generous and made a similar admission. I feel a little anxious that this year there was a delay before the Commission came into operation. The commission did not come into operation until July. There was a period in which the new Government was determining the future composition of and its attitude towards the Commission. It is now in operation. 
This Bill makes a number of relatively minor and, I think, fairly useful amendments to the original legislation. They will be useful because, above all other things, they will finalise, for the time being anyway, the way in which the Commission will operate. One may expect that from now on the Commission can proceed with evergreater speed and efficiency in doing the things which are set out for it in the Act.  Senator Mulvihill  described himself as a conservative, I believe. He said that he believes in conserving land. Perhaps that is the only field in which he and I could be described as conservatives. I join with him in saying that in the conservation of many things which are part of the history of this country it is important that the Heritage Commission operate successfully. The history of the action of the National Estate goes back to 1972. We signed an international convention at the end of 1972. Then there was that magnificent report of the Hope inquiry which was the basis of the legislation. I think the legislation fairly faithfully records  Mr Justice  Hope 's desires. 
I think it is worth while to remind ourselves of the purposes set out for the Australian Heritage Commission. They were set out in the report. The first was to: 
Set up an Australian Heritage Commission on a broad and representative basis ... to advise the Government and the Parliament on the condition of the National Estate and how it should be protected. 
The second purpose, a very important purpose, was to: 
Establish and maintain a register of the things that make up the National Estate. 
That register will tell us the assets that are valuable, the assets that need to be preserved- some at all costs, other perhaps of a lesser significance -and those matters which are part of the tradition of this country and which could easily disappear. The third purpose was to: 
Require that the Australian Government departments and agencies and those acting on its behalf respect the National Estate and do all they can to preserve it. 
This Bill sets out the ways in which those purposes should be achieved. The final purpose was to: 
. work in co-operation with the States to ensure that complementary legislation and actions were implemented on behalf of the future generations in Australia. 
I think it is important for us to have in mind these objectives. 
I agree with  Senator Mulvihill  that the people already appointed to the Commission have a great deal of ability and should be capable of carrying out the purposes for which it was established. It is headed by  Mr David  Yencken who is accepted as a man of great experience and great competence. Many members of this Parliament have had the opportunity of discussing with him the purposes and work of the Commission. Earlier this year, when there was some state of uncertainty,  Mr Yencken  said: 
The future of the Heritage Commission, which was being established by the Labor Government before its dismissal, had been in doubt for months because of uncertainty about its acceptance by the Fraser Government. 
At the time that this Bill, which brought forward these changes, was introduced, he said: 
Amendments to the Act introduced by the Prime Minister 2 weeks ago had not removed or affected any of the important roles or powers of the Commission. 
I do not think  Senator Mulvihill  suggested for one moment that that is so, although in the perhaps more vigorous and emotional atmosphere of the other place there was some tendency to suggest that the amendments had greater significance that they in fact have. 
The amendments contained in the Bill do change the functions of the Commission. Clause 4 changes section 7 of the Act. The Commission is not expected now to make proposals for example, in regard to financial assistance an expenditure. That is not to be within its express compass. Its new function is to be 'to furnish advice to the Minister, either of its own motion or upon request made to it by the Minister, on matters relating to the national estate, including advice relating to action to conserve, improve and present the national estate'. Although this body is not expected to be an expert financial body or to determine or to recommend taxes or financial matters, I take it that naturally its advice will have to deal to some extent with the economics of conservation and the area and way in which action will be taken. I take it that in the general compass of the powers that the Commission has there naturally will be some consideration of the economics, but the Commission will not be expected to be an expert body in respect to the financing of conservation. The amendment to section 8 is a useful amendment. It provides that one of the objectives and works of the Commission shall be to 'consult with the Director of National Parks and Wildlife in relation to any matter that concerns the establishment or management of a park or reserve under the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 1975'. That is a very useful provision. It is obviously necessary that these 2 separate bodies should work in consultation and co-operation, because there is some overlap in the spheres in which they are involved. 
In regard to the amendments to section 12,  Senator Mulvihill  had something to say about the effect of reducing the number of commissioners. Now there will be 7 commissioners instead of something like 19 commissioners in all. The Government has found it necessary to economise on the cost involved in the size and activities of a commission with a great number of commissioners. Obviously this is a matter which is not immutable or not for all time. It will depend on what turns out to be the work of this Commission. I suppose that it would be well within the power of the Government to increase the number of commissioners if it were found that they could not manage. I thought it very queer that  Senator Mulvihill  should say that it is numbers that count. That is a proposition in regard to the appointment of commissioners and boards that I would not accept. 
-Senator Mulvihill is not suggesting that there is any more efficiency in a commission of 19 than in a commission of seven, is he? 
-I will come to the representation later, but let me deal with  Senator Mulvihill  's statement that it is the numbers that count, whichever way he puts it. We in this Senate, when we compare our numbers with the numbers in the House of Representatives, would not be inclined to suggest that the numbers count and that double the size makes for any greater efficiency or ability. I would warn against that argument. 

 Senator Mulvihill said that there ought to be State representation. The curious thing about this is that the original Bill had no provision in this regard. When 19 commissioners were proposed there was no suggestion that there should be State government representation. Sub-section (5) of section 12 of the Act which provides for 19 commissioners says that in the appointment of commissioners the Minister 'shall have regard to the desirability of the membership of the Commission including persons resident in the several States and in the Northern Territory'. But even in the original Bill providing for the larger number, which was proposed by the Labor Government and which went through the Parliament, there was no suggestion that there would be State government representation on the Commission. So if  Senator Mulvihill  was attempting to beguile the Minister with this touch of federalism, I am afraid that I must inform him that the original Act did not provide for State representation, and I doubt that the Minister will be beguiled. 
I suggest that, in the present state of affairs and with the work now being done, commissioners can carry out the work of the Commission satisfactorily. No doubt as far as possible the membership will cover persons from different States and persons of different interests in the field of the National Estate. 
The other amendments to the Act likewise are useful. They deal, among other matters, with the situation of Aboriginal places. They obviously need to be tied up closely with the sites that are protected under laws of the States or Territories. Section 23 of the Act, as now amended, will allow action to be taken in accordance with a recommendation to the Minister of an approved person or organisation. That is a useful addition to the legislation. Another important provision of the Bill relates to the staff of the Commission. The  Chairman  is not a permanent head of a department. The Bill provides that the use of the services of the staff of the Commission by commissioners shall be subject to the control of the  Chairman.  I believe that that is necessary. 
In the debate in the House of Representatives there was emphasis-  Senator Mulvihill  referred to it also- the most urgent task of the Commission, namely, that it should complete a register of the National Estate and that that should be the major work with which it should deal. What I do not entirely agree with is  Senator Mulvihill's  statement that there must be speed in completing the register so that acquisitions can then take place. Quite frankly, I think the completion of the register of the National Estate will take a considerable time, and of course it will be a continuing operation. I would think that the time would not be so far distant when there would be some items of the National Estate that required to be taken over, to be acquired, or required action for their preservation. I do not think the Heritage Commission will be doing just one job and that there will not be urgent needs of various types in the various States to preserve pans of our heritage that are likely to be damaged beyond repair. There was some reference to this urgency. It was said that funds must be available and that it would be something which one would hope the Government would have in mind. It was said that funds to deal with aspects of our heritage that were in danger should be considered by the Government and made available in the near future. With this in mind I would like to refer to statements made in the House of Representatives by  Mr Barry  Simon, the honourable member for McMillan, who pointed out that we are aware of the present difficulties of the Government in the necessity to restrain public spending and to the fact that new ventures are not easy to contemplate in the present economic conditions. As recorded at page 320 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 18 August 1976, he said: 
However, the restriction of expenditure to the Australian Heritage Commission can be justified only if by so doing the National Estate is not thereby prejudiced. If any commitment of the natural environment which would form part of the National Estate and appear on the register in accordance with the terms of the Act is in danger of destruction, despoliation or is in any way adversely affected, the Government must take immediate and urgent steps, on the advice of the Commission, to preserve or maintain that component. 
I believe that there will be cases where it will be a matter of sheer necessity to expend moneys to ensure that some things are not destroyed. A similar point was made in an article written earlier this year, on 9 March, in the  Age  newspaper by John Messer dealing with the Australian Heritage Commission's 'plight'. At that stage there was uncertainty as to what would be the further action of the Government in relation to the Commission. He was pointing out among other interesting matters that the functions of the Commission may well have to be delegated to the States to be operated by them. He said that they should not be surrendered but should be delegated to the extent that that could be done. He then referred to a statement by the  Chairman  of the Australian Heritage Commission,  Mr Yencken.  The article said: 

 Chairman of the Australian Heritage Commission,  Mr Yencken,  makes one further argument on the economic scale, although it registers on the social and political spectrum as well. 
This is the immense cost that the Australian Heritage Commission will save the community by heading off major resource conflicts before they occur. 
One of its particular aims would be to identify areas of potential resource conflict early enough so that people can readjust their programs', he said. 'For a relatively small cost you can find an alternative for the developing agency. 
The argument for preservation should be an incredibly strong one. The conservation argument runs forever. What you destroy is gone forever. In a case of conflict, if you develop you destroy the potential for conserving. ' 
It should be borne in mind that it may well be that the saving to the community in many areas will be by early action rather than by waiting until people have made decisions and have committed themselves to all kinds of economic development. It would be better for the Heritage Commission to step in, put items on the register and let people know well in advance before they are confused and before they have incurred unnecessary expenditure. 
I feel that the recent decision in regard to Fraser Island falls into this category. I believe that it will be an island which very soon will be in the category of particular world's heritage. Actions there need to be taken, and were taken, at an early stage. This is one example of the way in which the heritage of this country is being preserved. 
The Government has a policy and a commitment from the last election which I think is well worth reading in regard to the preservation of the National Estate and other conservation measures. Under the heading 'National Estate' it said: 
To preserve areas and buildings of historical, social, cultural, ecological or environmental significance, the Liberal and National Country Parties will: 
Support the Australian Heritage Commission. 
Preserve Commonwealth buildings, structures and areas which have unique historical value and wide community appreciation. 
Confer with States on the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry on the National Estate. 
Provide funds for the States to assist in the preservation of areas and buildings of historical, social, cultural, ecological and environmental significance. 
I think perhaps it refers to areas. There may be a slight grammatical defect in that statement but I think the purposes are clear. I believe that this should continue to be the objective of the Government. 
This Bill is really a machinery Bill which provides some streamlining and some additional certainty in the area in which the Heritage Commission is proceeding. I believe that it is important that this area should not become insignificant, that we should not in any circumstances think there will not be costly involvement in the heritage position. I know that at the present time there are financial limitations, but I hope and believe that this area will continue to be a matter of most major concern to the Government and that we shall adopt and continue to foster the development of the Heritage Commission. 
by leave- I move: 
That the time for presentation of the report of the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on: 
1 ) The alterations of the law made by the Misrepresentation Ordinance 197S, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 40 of 1975, and as amended by the Misrepresentation Ordinance 1976 contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 17 of 1976; and 
The alterations of the law made by the Manufacturers Warranties Ordinance 1975, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 41 of 1975, be extended till 9 December 1 976. 
The reason for this is that the Committee is just finishing its deliberations in respect of this ordinance. It is not ready to report today. It expects to be able to report before 9 December but desires that period to be quite sure that the report is printed in that time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Administrative Services. Is it true that the Government proposes to close the Australian Government Publishing Service Bookshop at Albury? If so, why? In view of the Prime Minister's statements on open access to government information, have alternative arrangements to closure been considered, such as incorporating the facilities offered into the services of the Upper Murray Regional Libraries at Albury or Wodonga? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Commonwealth Government committed to the internationally accepted target of providing 0.7 per cent of 
Australia's gross national product as development assistance. 
Has the proportion achieved in recent years been reducing. 
Is the anticipated percentage for 1976-77 now 0.49 per cent of forecast gross national product and does this include some deferments from 1975-76. 
What are the total increases in aid to developing countries in 1976-77 excluding aid to Papua New Guinea. 
What action is the Government proposing to achieve the accepted target of 0.7 percent. 
Does the development assistance include aid to Vietnam, and what aid has been supplied to Vietnam since the termination of hostilities. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Minister list all civil and military projects involving Australian Government aid in any form to Indonesia since 1965, including (a) the detailed description and cost of each such project and the period over which it operated; (b) the varieties and scale of training provided to civil and military personnel involved in each project; and (c) the varieties and amounts of equipment and materials for civil and military purposes. 
Will the Minister advise the extent to which such projects are currently operating. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. As he is aware, in the past Federal estate duty has been levied on the residue of a deceased estate after State death duty has been deducted? Is it true that in those States where death duty is being abolished as between spouses, or the exemption level is being raised, the Federal Government has decided to levy the duty on the full value of estates, thus reducing the benefit to the surviving spouse? Is consideration being given to any proposals to alleviate the position of surviving spouses in respect of death duties? 
I rise to join in the remarks made by  Senator Primmer.  I was not aware that  Senator Primmer  was raising this matter in the adjournment debate this evening. As I have been in communication with a number of Thai students in recent times and as I have been in correspondence with both the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  and the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  in respect of this matter, I want to add some comments to what  Senator Primmer  has said and generally to support the plea which he makes for a number of students who are now left in a dangerous situation, for reasons which I think have not been entirely covered by  Senator Primmer,  and who should now have the benefit of being able to stay in this country. 
We know what happened to many students in Thailand at the time of the overthrow of the government. We know that those students in this country who may have taken a political stance which was not friendly to the present Thai Government would be in very great danger if they are forced to return to their country. I am satisfied that those students to whom I have spoken are in genuine fear and are in a genuinely difficult situation and that the Government ought to greet them with a great deal of sympathy and concern. There are many of them. There is one in particular on whose behalf I have made a plea in relation to his application for permanent residence. I made that plea by letter to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on 25 November of this year. I am not surprised that I have not yet had a reply about the whole matter. In that letter to  Mr Peacock,  amongst other things, I said: 
I have also been informed that there are a number of sponsored students under your ministerial responsibility, who are reluctant to lodge their applications for permanent residence, as they feel that this may speed up requests from the Thai authorities for their return to Thailand. I am aware that, if they fail to observe their bonds, they will be held responsible by the Thai Government for twice the cost of their education, and it obviously will be impossible for them to meet such claims. 
I want to say something later about the question of bonds. As to the activities of the Thai Government, I have seen a translation of the letter which  Senator Primmer  has read tonight. It seems to me that, if that Government is prepared to go to such deep degrees of surveillance of students here, it is likely to do something to students who return home. Students are fearful that even if they put in the application this may lead to some speeding up. Obviously they will have to do something about that and put in applications. At least one student whom I saw and on whose behalf I have written has put in an application for permanent residence. 
I want to say something also about the difficulty which these students have with respect to bonds. Well before this matter arose and before the overthrow of the Government I had cause to write again to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in a matter which is not in any way completed, on behalf of a young Thai girl who is now married to an Australian, who in fact has broken the bond and who is not returning to take up work as a teacher in Thailand. It was brought to my notice then- I think this is the typical position in which students find themselves- that on breaking the bond students are required to pay twice the amount of the cost of their education in Australian terms. In the particular case about which I wrote on 6 September and which is unresolved there is a claim against the girl for $ 1 8,000, which she will not be able to meet. 
She came here as a Colombo Plan student in 1971; she graduated in 1974; she did a post-graduate computer course in 1975; and she married in January 1976. So she was here as a student for about 4 or 5 years. Apparently twice the cost of the education has to be paid, and I am informed by the students that if it is not paid the Government will bankrupt the guarantor back in Thailand, who would be a parent. Therefore there is another pressure on students to return. Not only might they be treated badly physically or imprisoned but there is also a question of financial cost. I hope that this Government will intervene and try to reach some accommodation with the Thai Government as to students who cannot go back because of the danger they will face. 
Two Ministers are involved in this matter. The Colombo Plan students are the concern of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the private students are the concern of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. On 25 November I wrote to  Mr MacKellar  in regard to Professor Apichai Puntasen who escaped from Thailand at the time of the  coup.  He seems to me to be a genuine man He was an adviser to the Democratic Party Government which was overthrown. He is here now and he is seeking permanent residency. He has not been granted it yet.  His  time has expired and he has been given some extension. I have joined with another organisation which wrote to him. The New South Wales Association of Immigration Reform took up his case and wrote to the Minister on 1 1 November, asking that permanent residency be granted to the professor. I have written to the Minister supporting that application in the hope that it will be granted, because obviously he is a political refugee who has no hope of going back. If he did go back he obviously would suffer a certain fate at the hands of the new Government. That is another exception. There may be more people who have escaped from Thailand and who have managed to get here. There are obviously many students in Victoria, and no doubt in other States as well, who are concerned and who are in genuine danger and under genuine threat from the present Thai Government. I join with  Senator Primmer  in hoping that our Government will give the most sympathetic consideration to the students ' request for permanent residence in this country. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Minister aware of complaints by Amnesty International and other organisations concerning the actions of the military regime in Paraguay and the imprisonment and torture of political opponents, including  Dr Dino  Tomas Acosta, held without trial for 12 years and now said to have been tortured to death? Does the Minister have any knowledge of the current state of  Dr Acosta  's health, his treatment by the regime and whether he is still alive? Has the Australian Government made any representations in respect of these complaints? Does the Minister envisage any action that 
Australia might take to influence the Paraguay regime 's treatment of political prisoners? 
I think  Senator James  McClelland is mistaken. Clause 5 (2) (d) is very restrictive. It relates only to action taken in relation to that employment, including action taken with respect to the promotion', and so forth. To that extent it is a limited restriction on the Public Service of the Northern Territory, but  Senator Kilgariff's  amendment seeks to put employees of the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory in the same position as employees of departments of this Parliament who are excluded under this Bill. It is true that it is done in a different way because our own departments of the Federal Parliament do not come within the purview of the Ombudsman at all, as is provided for in clause 5 ( 1 ) (a), because there is no department by definition. All  Senator Kilgariff  is doing by adding this provision to sub-clause (2) of clause 5 is putting the same type of parliamentary department of the Northern Territory in the same situation. I suggest that it is necessary to do that. 
I rise to support this Bill with a great deal of enthusiasm and perhaps with less worry than  Senator Mulvihill  has as to the way in which it is likely to operate. I rise with enthusiasm because I have advocated for the last 15 years that there should be an ombudsman for Australia and in the States. I can claim that in the State of Victoria I was responsible for the first resolution to persuade the Victorian Liberal Party that we should have an ombudsman. Victoria was the first State to achieve this. We had a certain Premier in VictoriaSir Henry Bolte- who had a considerable strength of mind and a feeling that it was not necessary to have anyone but politicians to look after the problems of citizens. He did not feel that there was any need for an ombudsman. Ultimately, of course, with a change of Premier, we achieved in Victoria and in all the mainland States the operation of an ombudsman. I think he is operating very effectively in those States. 
The problem which  Senator Mulvihill  first advanced was that he felt there could be some difficulty encountered by an individual in getting the facts and in doing all the work necessary. He will appreciate that this is a problem for the Federal ombudsman when he is dealing with many cases and that he will need staff with competence. I shall say something later about the importance of the individual who is chosen, even though much of the work will have to be done through intermediaries in regard to the actual detail of working on complaints. I do not think Party politics needs to be something that causes an ombudsman to be ineffective. I do not think this has happened in places where there are ombudsmen. We have examples of ombudsmen who have operated now for over 100 years in Scandinavian countries. In New Zealand, for the first time in the common law countries, an ombudsman was successfully appointed in 1962. He is  Sir Guy  Powles who perhaps has been the most outstanding success as an ombudsman in the English speaking world. He is a man who was well chosen. I stress this point because I think it is very important that, when this Bill is passed, as assuredly it will be, the person who is appointed first to take this position is one with the utmost competence to fulfil the role. 
It is a very happy day that Parties on both sides of the chamber are supporting this Bill. I remember that this Bill has taken a long time to get to this chamber. Last year, on that rather fateful day of 1 1 November, a Labor Ombudsman Bill was the second piece of legislation on the list. I was ready to open the debate for the then Opposition. I am happier to be opening the debate for the Government today in support of a Bill which is, in all essence, similar to that Bill of last year, but which has some improvements in it. This matter has not been a Party political matter over the last few years. The initial reports of committees which have called for the appointment of an ombudsman- the Kerr Committee and in particular the Bland Committee in 1973- found the necessity for having ombudsmen in the Commonwealth of Australia. Of course, since that time, the endeavour, though slow, on both sides of the chamber has been to bring this into effect. I believe that not only do we need an ombudsman in the States, but more than anywhere we need an ombudsman in the Commonwealth of Australia where we are diverse, where the Commonwealth Government in Canberra is a long way from the major cities and where it is obviously essential that matters of maladministration, where they occur, are brought to the attention of someone who operates in the way that an ombudsman does. 
Let us realise that of course this measure is only one measure and that it operates with something else. In the last few years we created the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. That is a much more formal body. It has hearings and deals with the decisions of Ministers and officials. It operates in a somewhat different way from that in which an ombudsman normally operates. We see under this legislation the complementary measure, the ombudsman who acts informally. He does not have the power to make decisions to change things, but he is able to investigate actions relating to matters of administration taken by a department or by a prescribed authority. With the powers prescribed for him in this Bill he is able to go to departments and to officials to find out the facts. He can undertake an investigation either by waiting on a complaint by a person or by going ahead on his own initiative and investigating something. There is this informality. This is the feature of ombudsman throughout those parts of the world which have ombudsmen. I think this is one of the most valuable parts of the institution. 
Let us look at last year's Bill and at this year's Bill. I shall spend a short time dealing with the structure of the present Bill. Even though there has been a delay, the Bill, as it is now, has a number of changes in it which are useful. I shall say something later about one or two things which I regret are not in the Bill but which I hope will be in it at some time in the future. This Bill contains really substantial improvements on the Bill of last year. There has been clarity as to the persons who might be exercising statutory powers and functions. Under the previous Bill there were possibilities of a very wide operation of persons, like company liquidators, being incorporated within the terms and reference of the legislation. That would not have been desirable. Also, under the previous Bill there was doubt as to whether the ombudsman could take action in respect of matters which occurred before or after the commencement of the Act. I think it would be highly undesirable if persons were denied the opportunity of going to the ombudsman merely because the matter arose before the Bill came into operation. There are provisions in relation to complaints where an ombudsman declines to investigate. He must be satisfied that he is not causing undue hardship. There are, as I say, a number of matters in this Bill which show some improvement. This is one of the advantages of delay, even though we may regret that delay. 
Under this Bill important significance is given to the fact that the ombudsman has to operate in a Federal context. He has to act in such a way that he can deal effectively with matters of Commonwealth administration in the States and in the Territories. The Bill provides that 2  deputy  ombudsmen- one for the Australian Capital Territory and one for the Northern Territory- are to be appointed. In regard to the States, I think it is important that there should be personal application as far as possible by the ombudsman in giving his attention to these matters of maladministration that might occur, even though he may have to travel a lot to keep them within his own purview. I should like to refer briefly to a paper written in 1975 by  Mr Julian  Disney of the Law Faculty of the University of New South Wales. In relation to this problem he said: 
It will be fatal if the State officers of the Australian Ombudsman become mere receivers of complaints for transmission to the head office. A great measure of State autonomy will be essential to preserve the speed, informality and personal element which are so fundamental to the successful operation of the Ombudsman concept. Overall control from Canberra will be necessary, especially to ensure uniformity and to conduct top-level negotiation with Ministers and public servants, but there should be a senior officer 'on the ground' with extensive powers and commensurate status. It would be preferable to have a 'Chief Australian Ombudsman', with an 'Australian Ombudsman* for each State or Territory. It may be that, at least in some States, the State Ombudsman should act also as Australian Ombudsman for that State. 
Perhaps his latter words are not relevant because divisions have been made as to the names of the bodies concerned but obviously it is essential that there should be co-operation between the Federal and State ombudsmen so that people with complaints who go to the wrong body are facilitated in going to the right person to achieve justice. On this point I should like to refer to remarks which were made some years ago by Professor Geoffrey Sawer in his book  Ombudsman.  This was written in 1958, nonetheless it was an excellent review at that time of the concept of the Ombudsman operating then in various parts of the world. He said: 
Assuming that eventually there were a number of these officers, federal and State, it would be easy for them to establish informal contacts and to refer to each other cases which fell within the other's sphere of administration, or to make joint inquiries where administration was joint. 
I hope that in carrying out his work the Ombudsman will co-operate with his State colleagues to achieve justice for people who have a problem with administration even if they are not certain whether it is a State or Federal matter. 
A great number of factors relate to this Bill.  Senator Mulvihill  said that there is a problem in relation to clause 9 of the Bill as it now stands. This means that certain things can be denied to the Ombudsman and that the Attorney-General can furnish to the Ombudsman a certificate saying that he shall not investigate a particular area because of its relation to security, defence, international relations or certain other matters, including the deliberations of the Cabinet. This provision could impose a considerable restriction if it were misused. It is significant that in this Bill, compared with the legislation prepared by the previous Government, the Attorney-General has to make decisions about these matters and not just any Minister. This means that there will be judicious and careful scrutiny to ensure that this restriction on the ombudsman's power will not be over used. One also notices the considerable power which the ombudsman will have.  His  power is not a power to change things. It is not a political power. It is not a power to make decisions that order officials to do something different if they have erred in their actions. It is a significant power. The ombudsman can report to a department and ask it to take action. If he is not satisfied he can ask a Minister to take action. He can report to the Prime Minister or to the Parliament. Ombudsmen in other jurisdictions have found that publicity is adequate to enable them to bring to attention matters in which a department is slow or loath to answer or carry out proper redress for a citizen. The Ombudsman will have powers to ensure that complaints which come before him from prisoners will not be interfered with by prison authorities so that he will be able to deal with them. That is an important clause in the Bill. 
It is important to get the ombudsman into operation. We may well find then that changes are necessary. This has happened in other States and other jurisdictions. In Victoria it is now proposed to give the Ombudsman jurisdiction in local government matters. When the Ombudsman is seen to be effective in the fields in which he has acted he may then be given by Parliament further fields of activities and further powers. Above all, the importance of and the criteria for his appointment ought to be taken into account. 
The Ombudsman should be acceptable to members on both sides of the Parliament. He should not in any way be partisan. Five of these criteria for consideration in the appointment of an ombudsman were mentioned in an interesting way last year by  Mr Howard,  who is now the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. The first is that he should be independent. Secondly, he should be impartial. Thirdly, he should have a thorough understanding of government. Fourthly, he should be accessible to people. Fifthly, he should have powers to recommend and publicise and, of course, an ability to do these things. These matters involve great consideration of the personality of the person who is to be appointed. It means that he does not need to be a lawyer. He does not need to have worked in the Public Service. However, he needs to have a fair familiarity with those areas. 
Whilst I am very happy that this Bill is now before the Senate and trust that it will come into early operation I want to refer to 2 matters. I think there are 2 deficiencies in the Bill which I hope will be cured at some later stage. For the record, I wish to set them out. Under clause 5 of the Bill one of the main exclusions from the power of the ombudsman, perhaps the main one, is that he is not authorised to investigate action taken by a Minister. This has been a matter of controversy. Different views have been taken by different parties in the cause of the legislation. I notice that whereas last year the Labor Party might have taken a different view, apparently it is now happy with this restriction on the Ombudsman. I think that this is a matter to be regretted. I draw attention to paragraphs 92 and 94 of the report in 1973 of the Bland Committee which is known as the Committee on Administrative Discretions. It states: 
If one starts from the premise that policy decisions of Ministers should not be examinable, then, subject to the problem of determining whether a decision is one of policy or of administration only, the United Kingdom Act alone has any basis in logic. It provides that administrative decisions whether of a Minister or an official are examinable. It excludes decisions of Cabinet presumably as likely to be directed to policy. 
The report goes on: 
If no decisions of Ministers are to be examinable, a power to make judgments about, and to recommend changes in, legislation fits oddly. We will return to this. And, having regard to the argument above, it is equally odd to make any recommendations to Ministers examinable. 
It is strange that if, under this Bill, an ombudsman may investigate recommendations to Ministers he cannot investigate an actual decision made by a Minister. It is strange that when Ministers are often given administrative decisions to make- not matters of policy but matters of administration- they cannot be examined by the Ombudsman. When this matter was being debated last year in the House of Representatives,  Mr Ellicott,  who was then a member of the Opposition, in relation to this clause said: 
I want to suggest to the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  that, having in mind the history of discretions under Commonwealth law and the fact that many administrative discretions are given to Ministers, there is a strong case for doing one of 2 things: Either including amongst those discretions which the Ombudsman can look at, certain of the discretions of Ministers that are administrative, or alternatively, carrying out a thorough investigation of the Commonwealth law in order to sort out from the discretions of Ministers those which are matters of policy and those which are matters of administration. 
From reading the record of the debate in the other place, I believe that  Mr Ellicott,  as Attorney-General, certainly is adopting the second of those courses. He certainly is trying to sort out the distinction between these particular discretions. The fewer of them that remain as acts of Ministers which are denied the Ombudsman's scrutiny the better. I regret that those arguments have not led us to decide at this stage to include such administrative acts of Ministers within the power of the Ombudsman to scrutinise. I conclude by saying that when  Mr Disney,  whom I mentioned before, wrote an article in 1974 entitled 'Ombudsmen in Australia' he had this to say: 
The Federal Government's proposals have not yet been released, but it seems that they will be even more restrictive than the States in relation to jurisdiction over Ministers (removing most opportunity to comment indirectly on their decisions), will adopt a general criterion narrower than wrong', and will give the Government extensive power to exclude the Ombudsman from investigating any conduct which it certifies as relating to Australia's security, international relations or defence. 
He and other people have taken that view when writing on this issue. I think it is a pity that this legislation does not embrace that view. I hope that at some time in the future, when we have established the office of ombudsman and we have seen that person working effectively in this jurisdiction, further consideration will be given to actions by a Minister which are excluded from the jurisdiction of the ombudsman. 
Also, I think it is unfortunate that the suggestion which has been made from time to time and which my Party proposed last year as an amendmentthat the ombudsman though appointed by the Governor-General should not be so appointed until his appointment had been approved by both Houses- has not met with the approval of the Government and is not contained in the Bill. I think that, after all, an ombudsman is a parliament man. I think he ought particularly to be the preserve of the Parliament, to which he reports. He should not just be someone who is appointed by the Governor-General but someone who, in fact, has a particular responsibility to the Parliament. This may be a matter of form, but I have no doubt that the appointment of an ombudsman will always be discussed between Prime Ministers and Leaders of the Opposition. It is terribly important that the appointment of an ombudsman should not lead to political argument, whereby the matter was canvassed in the Parliament. I assume that the introduction of such a procedure will be explored. I think it is a shame that we have not proceeded with what was proposed last year, namely, that the Ombudsman should be approved of by both Houses of Parliament before he actually took up his role of office. I put those 2 matters forward in the hope that in due course they will be reconsidered. 
I conclude by saying that I think that the position of ombudsman is a terribly important position. A great deal of care will be required in choosing the occupant of the position. I believe that in the early years of the operation of the office it will be a matter of trial and error and of a lot of things being done that may lead subsequently to an amendment of the legislation. I think that the Ombudsman will have the extremely important job of balancing the rights of big government, which exists today, with those terribly important individual rights that can so easily be swamped in the huge machinations of government. 
It may be that very often only 1 5 per cent or 1 8 per cent or so of complaints made to the Ombudsman are found to be justified- that most complaints are found not to be justified. That does not mean in any way that the ombudsman is not doing a useful job. He will be doing 2 things. He will be satisfying the public that in most cases proper administration has been performed. He will be able to say to the person who complains that his cause has been investigated and has been shown not to be a proper complaint that needs action. But in some cases faults do occur; mistakes are made by members of the Administration, by clerks and by all kinds of people all the way down the system. I think the Ombudsman will be a most valuable addition to the armoury of government and of civil liberties in this country. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What savings have been achieved by relegating the Australian Development Assistance Agency to incorporation in the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
What changes in staffing have occurred as a consequence. 
What losses of experts on international aid have occurred as a consequence of the changeover and to what extent have they been replaced by foreign affairs generalists. 
Has the change led to increases in Australian or other consultancy services in the aided countries. If so, what additional payments are to be made in 1 976-77 for consultancy services. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) In what percentage of cases have orders for custody been made in favour of the father of children as against the mother by family law Judges since the coming into operation of the Family Law Act. 
To what degree do such orders compare with the number of custody orders made by Supreme Courts before the coming into operation of the Family Law Act. 
What is the anticipated date of commencement of operation of the Family Law Institute and will it be requested to make enquiries in the areas of custody of children or other related subjects. 
-I present 2 reports from the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on its inquiry into: 
The alterations of the law made by the Manufacturers Warranties Ordinance 197S; and 
The alterations of the law made by the Misrepresentation Ordinance 1975. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 

 Senator MISSEN (Victoria)-by leave-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the reports. 
Honourable senators will recall that in May this year the Manufacturers Warranties Ordinance and the Misrepresentation Ordinance were repealed following the recommendation by the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. Following discussions between that Committee and the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  the Senate resolved that this Committee should examine and report on the alterations of the law proposed by the 2 ordinances. The sequence of events which led up to this Committee's inquiry is set out fully in the introduction to the report on the manufacturers Warranties Ordinance. 
In the course of its inquiry the Committee has had the benefit of an exhaustive analysis of the ordinances by the witnesses at public meetings and in the submissions received. The submissions and evidence revealed some weaknesses and defects in the Misrepresentation Ordinance, however, none was opposed to its reintroduction. The Committee gave close scrutiny to section 6 of that ordinance which created an offence of misrepresentation in trade or commerce and which was of particular concern to the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. The Committee has recommended that this section be re-structured particularly to sever, from the rest of the section, the vicarious offence of a principal for the acts of his agent or an employer for the acts of his employees. On the other hand the Committee did not believe that the provision for the reversal of the onus of proof of some elements of the offences was unreasonable or sufficient to warrant its deletion or substantial amendment. The Committee felt that the objectives of the ordinance could not be achieved effectively unless this part of the offence was retained in its present form. 
The Committee has found that the objectives of the Manufacturers Warranties Ordinance, which are to create undertakings by the manufacturer to the consumer as to the suitability and quality of goods are desirable changes to the law. The Committee has recommended that, subject to specific amendments to individual sections of the ordinance, the Manufacturers Warranties Ordinance should be reintroduced into the Australian Capital Territory. Since the Manufacturers Warranties Ordinance was referred to the Committee, the Trade Practices Act Review Committee completed its report. Although the report of the Review Committee may be implemented at a later date and part or the whole of the ordinance may become redundant, this Committee concluded that the ordinance should be reintroduced at this time. 
The Committee reports that the alterations of the law made by these 2 ordinances are desirable reforms of the law and that the 2 ordinances should be reintroduced subject to the specific recommendations of the Committee relating to individual clauses of the ordinances. The Committee believes that the reintroduction of the legislation may be followed by similar legislation in the Austraiian States. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. I refer to a recent address by  Mr Walter  Lippmann,  Chairman  of the Ethnic Communities Council of Victoria, during which he expressed regret that the Community Relations Council has not yet been established under the provisions of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975. Can the Minister indicate why the proposed Community Relations Council has not yet been formed, to achieve the desirable objectives set out in the Act, and whether the Council is likely to be formed at an early date? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to an article by  Mr Hugh  Lunn in the  Australian  newspaper on 18 November concerning the growing incidence of skin cancer in Australia and the need for all health departments to advertise both the dangers involved and the need for people, particularly children, to wear hats and sun screens. Has the Government any plans in hand to do this in respect of its Department of Health and to advise the most suitable and effective skin screens available to the public? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to an article by Michael Richardson in this morning's  Age  entitled 'Fretilin's alive and kicking' which reproduces recent information, primarily from independent Indonesian sources, of the massive killings and persecutions by Indonesian forces in East Timor and claims that the Timorese resistance retains control of the great percentage of the population and area of East Timor. I ask: Firstly, have these reports not already been delivered to the Foreign Minister and have their contents been confirmed from his own inquiries? Secondly, do they not support the suggestion that the Australian Government should reconsider its abstention from voting on East Timor in the recent committee vote in the United Nations and that 
Australia should vote affirmatively on the resolution when it comes before the General Assembly later this month? Thirdly, do they not call for a renewal and expansion of our diplomatic efforts in support of the people of East Timor in accordance with our declared policy? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to a petition organised by the Australia-Israeli Medical Association, signed by 260 doctors throughout Australia and delivered to the U.S.S.R. Embassy in March 1976, seeking justice for  Dr Mikhail  Shtern of Vinniktsa Ukraine, who for an extended period has been under arrest and denied migration to Israel. Is the Australian Government prepared to make representations to the U.S.S.R. authorities in support of the representations of so many Australian citizens who are concerned with the treatment of  Dr Shtern,  in breach of basic human rights? 
-I would like to say a few words on this clause and the 3 amendments to it which have been circulated by  Senator Keeffe  and which are designed fundamentally to change the nature of the Bill and to translate it into something substantially different from what is contemplated at the moment.  Senator Keeffe  tells us that we will have to stand up and be counted on each amendment. If he thinks we are worried by that sort of schoolboy threat, I assure him that we are not. I assure him that we are capable of understanding, in the course of our deliberations of this Bill and the very long discussions that have taken place, that there are some things that some of us would like to see in the Bill that are not encompassed and cannot be encompassed at present. 
Opposition members- Why not? 
Because in relation to the 3 Aboriginal Bills we have been debating today there have been many representations, many things done and many amendments. I am very satisfied with the great bulk of the amendments which have been made to the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill, which I think have improved it very considerably. If I as an individual or someone else in this chamber thinks there might be another here or another one there, then it is a matter on which we must weigh up all the concerns and all the entitlements of people involved in the area and do what is best with prime consideration for the interests of the Aborigines, who I think are concerned with this. 

 - Senator Coleman is saying that I do not have the courage of my convictions. I think I have demonstrated the courage of my convictions on some occasions. I have never seen any members of the Australian Labor Party with any courage. They have pretty well no conviction at all. They are not the people to talk about the courage of your convictions. Clause 23, dealing with the powers of the land councils, deals with traditional Aboriginal land. This is one of the major matters encompassed in the Bill. Of course there are other concerns that must not be forgotten. They must be dealt with. I hope they will be constantly under review and that the Committee of the Parliament which is being formed to consider the implementation of this Bill will have these things in mind. I hope it will also have in mind the claims, which are another matter of dispute, of need of the land not based on traditional rights but on need. I hope that will be considered as still a fundamentally important matter, but it will be dealt with in a different way from what has been done in this Bill. It appears worth while recalling what is stated in the Woodward report. I have a great deal of respect for both the author of the report and the report itself. In paragraph 274 of the second report of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission  Mr Justice  Woodward states: 
Only a very small percentage of city and town dwellers could establish a traditional claim to the areas where they now live. 
He went on to accept the aspects and views put forward by the counsel for the Central Land Council, who said: 
In respect of practically all of these township people, certain common features exist. They are all Aborigines who have been over the years dispossessed of their traditional land and have occupied areas of land for a number of years as virtual squatters. They have become attached to these areas of land and generally speaking desire to continue to live there. In no case could it be established that the land in question also constituted the traditional land of the particular persons now occupying it, although it may have formed part of the general tribal area of these people. In practically each case the land upon which they are now living is Crown land. The circumstances in which they are living is totally unsatisfactory to both themselves, to the white population of these towns and to Australian society as a whole '. 
I certainly hope that nothing in regard to the passage of this Bill, which deals substantially with traditional land and gives back traditional land which may well relieve a considerable proportion of the difficulties which people who are fringe dwellers and town dwellers may have, will lead to a lack of consideration for those rights, but obviously this is not the Bill that deals with them and this amendment is therefore, I feel, quite inappropriate. 
-I present the Ninth Report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave-adopted. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, refers to the report in the Australian Financial Review of Tuesday, 7 December 1976, detailing the disbanding of a study committee of Japanese companies, which was originally formed to investigate industrial development in the Pilbara region, due to a lack of specific long range Government policies on this matter. Is the Minister aware of this disturbing situation? Can he inform the Senate as to the Government's initiatives in respect of developments in the Pilbara region? 
I wish to speak briefly on this clause. I did not have the opportunity of speaking in the second reading debate because of the limit on the number of speakers, but I indicate now that I agree with what was said then by  Senator Bonner, Senator Chaney  and  Senator Baume  and take the same view as they do with regard to this Bill generally. 
Clause 73 is an important clause and I want to say a few words about it. It sets out the circumstances under which complementary legislation is to be framed. It sets out a framework for it. The Opposition is not suggesting any improvement or alteration of it; it is merely opposing the clause. The clause is a valuable one to the extent that it sets out that essential framework. 
I have had great reservations about the situation of complementary legislation. I recognise that the 1967 referendum result puts the prime responsibility on this Parliament to carry out these matters in relation to the Aboriginal population and we cannot abdicate from that responsibility. I do not think we have abdicated from it because this clause sets out not only the framework but also sets up the committee to supervise the way in which this complementary legislation comes about. It sets out that it is the duty of the parliamentary committee to see that it is properly done by the Northern Territory legislature. 
I see the legislature as representing a relatively small population in the Northern Territory and its record on Aboriginal legislation to this date has not been altogether satisfactory. However, we must wait and judge in the next year or two how it operates the powers which it has been given under this Bill. If we do not like what the Northern Territory legislature does we can disallow the ordinances it puts forward. In addition, we have the committee as an additional protection to ensure that there is a bona fide exercise by the Northern Territory legislature of the powers given under this Bill. I believe that important matters such as sacred sites, persons going onto Aboriginal land and waters in the proximity of Aboriginal residences, have to be watched very closely. 
We must not let down the Aboriginal population of the Northern Territory and I do not believe we will. 
In my opinion this Bill has been a great exercise. There have been provisions which have been considered in great detail. It is all very well for the Opposition to say that it will oppose this clause and hope that it will be thrown out, but what a mistake it would be if we were to be in accord with that. I believe that careful scrutiny of the way in which this clause is framed and the way in which we look at the operation of complementary legislation will ensure that we do justice to our Aboriginal population. 
-We have listened to a very angry speech.  Senator Button  is very angry about this Bill, and it appears that, to use his negative phrase, he is particularly angry that the amendments which have already been made to this Bill have removed most of its worst features. He badly regrets the absence of what he considers are the worst features of the Bill and he is very angry as a consequence of that. He even went on to talk about the people who are on my side of politics in the Government parties and who have, as he said, had to act in a revolting fashion to achieve changes. What  Senator Button,  as a member of the Labor Party, would not understand is that the Liberal and National Countries Parties do act positively. They do represent opinions and they are listened to in this Government. When they are concerned about a Bill they can come forward and put their views across and be listened to. Of course, when a Minister does something so outrageous as to say that the back benchers are expressive of opinion and are more in touch with the public, to  Senator Button  that is something outrageous, something terrible. On the other hand, we happen to think that it is what the back benchers are here for. That is the whole crisis, and it is the difference between the Parties which make up the Government and the Opposition Party.  1  do wish the Labor Party would come at some time or another to a state of age, to a realisation that they also ought to act in such a way as to represent opinion. If some features of a Bill are not acceptable to the public, then the Opposition can properly talk to members of the Government and properly convince it and, on occasions, effect some amendments to a Bill. 
The Bill before us does a number of things. What  Senator Button  failed to mention was that it is a transitory measure. It is a Bill which makes certain changes in our system, but it is not the last word. If one reads the statement of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  one will see that he acknowledged straight away that there will be a second stage. There has to be further discussion. There has to be further inquiry to obtain the best possible situation in the structure of broadcasting and television in this country, and that has not been achieved as yet. 
Perhaps one could deal first with the Australian Broadcasting Commission as part of the whole structure of broadcasting.  Senator Button  seems to have a very dubious view. He is very unhappy with  Sir Henry  Bland and his views and he is apparently very unhappy that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has expressed views about certain activities of the ABC and that  Sir Henry  Bland and the Board have not changed their views accordingly. It is hard to know exactly what  Senator Button  meant by that. Does he think that the Board ought to accept the Prime Minister's statement when he says, as an example, that he thinks the program  State of the Nation  ought to continue? The Prime Minister is not alone in that. A number of senators on this side of the House wrote to  Sir Henry  Bland and to others and said: ' We too think it is a useful series. It is not a costly series. We think it should be continued'. But we do not expect our views necessarily to be taken up. We believe that they will be given proper regard. Neither the Prime Minister nor Ministers nor ordinary members of this Parliament expect to be in a position to dictate to the Board of the ABC; nor is it right that they should be able to do so. They are just one part of the public and they are entitled to their views. 
So far as the ABC is concerned, I make a different criticism of it. In my view, and I am expressing a personal view, if there is anything wrong with the ABC it is a certain gutlessness in the organisation. There are certain things, I am sure, which ought to be improved in the bureaucracy of the ABC, and I think some of the cuts ought to take place there. But above this is an organisation which, if one reads the Green report, is held to be a fairly good organisation but one which, if it needs improving, needs improving in relation to establishing its own independence of activity and creating in regard to current affairs a much more full-blooded and forthright attitude. Some of my colleagues might not agree with that. They are sometimes upset by the way in which they are treated in programs on the ABC, but quite frankly I believe that, if it has a weakness, it is in the somewhat timid and pallid attitude of its interviewers. There is too much subservience to politicians, an inadequacy of really full-blooded public crticism which would make politics in this country more interesting. 
I think that the British Broadcasting Commission does this better. The BBC is more ready to poke fun at institutions in Britain, and I think it is healthy. In this country we have cartoonists in our newspapers who are the lifeblood of those newspapers, who can encapsulate in a few words or in a few strokes interesting things about the politics of the day. I think that is a healthy thing. But unfortunately there is some lack of full.bloodedness in our radio and television. I hope that the independence of the ABC will be preserved. Honourable senators on this side of the chamber are determined that the independence of the ABC will be preserved. In the platform of my own Party there is an absolute commitment to maintain the independence of the ABC. But I hope also that the ABC will accept the responsibilities that that involves and will in fact conduct full-blooded discussions that are useful.  Senator Button  referred to the statement on the ABC which  Sir Henry  Bland made recently, as reported in the  Age  of the ninth of this month. In the statement he said: 
On the other hand as one who had to listen to so many people for so often I couldn't care less if there were no current affairs  programs-and  I could put up with a lot more orchestras. 
That is his personal view, not necessarily the view of the Commissioners of the ABC who make the decisions in these matters. I suppose he is entitled to his view, but I do not agree with that view about current affairs. I believe that we need in Australia better current affairs programs, that are more incisive and more determined to examine public figures. We all put ourselves on trial. We are entitled to be questioned and we are obliged to answer questions. Therefore, we need better current affairs programs. On that subject I disagree with the personal view of  Sir Henry  Bland. 
I believe that under this Bill before us there is a preservation of the integrity of the ABC: Any thought that might have been held, that by removing or changing the Commissioners there was likely to be interference with the integrity and the terms of appointment of the ABC Commissioners, is now removed for all time. The Government has made certain decisions which are reflected in this Bill. It has decided that there ought to be a geographical representation throughout the country; there ought to be Commissioners from all States. That was not a recommendation in the Green report, which took a different view. The Government is probably wise in insisting that there ought to be representation from all the States. Then there is somebody to whom criticism can be directed and who is concerned to see that the ABC is also catering for the listeners and viewers in all States. 
-It has power to do it. But that provision is now enshrined in the legislation and it will come about. That has not come about in the past. I think that is probably a useful change. It will occur without there being any restriction or any existing term of office of the Commissioners of the ABC.  Senator Button  did not bother to deal in any way with the terms of this legislation. Let us see what the Bill does. Of course it creates the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal.  Senator Button  took the view that it is a sensible function to place in a quasi judicial tribunal the rights which were held, as well as on some other powers, by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board previously, and that the Tribunal will operate as a quasi judicial body in dealing with licences- the creation and change of licences- and, if necessary, the removal of licences where the rules are not complied with. In addition to the establishment of the Tribunal there is a proposal for the establishment of a broadcasting council- a council to represent views, but of course it will not be given powers to determine or to dictate the nature of the industry. The Bill also provides that broadcasting planning will be determined by the Postal and Telecommunications Department. 
Much of the legislation before us is transitory legislation covering only part of the situation that needs to be dealt with at this present time. It is based upon the Green report. I do not place any absolute importance on the Green report which was prepared by a very competent officer very quickly but after consideration of some 650 submissions or more. One does not know what submissions were weighing particularly in  Mr Green's  mind. But reading that report one gets a pretty clear understanding of the needs of the broadcasting and television system. The report has a lot of sense in it and must be of great value to the Government in its determination. It is not a report which is God. It does not determine everything but it is something which the Government obviously has been concerned to look at in order to find useful proposals. 
There are other features that are obviously in a second stage. I think it is useful tonight for us to talk for a few minutes about the great concern that we must have as to the future of broadcasting and television in Australia. If we change the system we must be concerned with how it may change. The  Age  of 9 December reports on the results of a survey of what people think about the regulation of the industry. The results were released by  Mr Myles  Wright, the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. It is significant that as regards the question of selfregulation namely, regulation by the industry itself- it is seen from this survey that fewer than one in four people believe that the control of television content should be left with television stations. I urge the Government to consider the opinion expressed in the survey and to be most cautious of the suggestion which the commercial television stations are pushing; that there ought to be self-regulation, leaving to them the determination as to what programs should be televised. 
One of the first things that will be done by the Tribunal will be to consider the question of selfregulation. I think we are entitled at this stage to say that one should be careful of the possibilities there. In my opinion the commercial programs that have been on television and radio are something of a wasteland at present, and have been for many years. Television and radio broadcasting licences are very valuable things. They give to people tremendous responsibilities and abilities to influence the minds, hearts and lives of people. Therefore, they should not be given with the greatest of ease. I am not over-convinced that there ought to be any great consideration to leaving the question of profit as the only determination in the operation of stations. 
Over the years we have had quite an argument, among other things, about Australian content in television. The Vincent report, which I have never believed was given sufficient credence in Australia, which endeavoured to increase the Australian content in television. That is very low. It is much lower than it should be. I know that efforts have been made by means of point systems and other things to increase Australian content and I do not think these methods have been altogether wise. But I would be most concerned if, in the changes we make in television, we allow the television stations to please themselves as to what they should televise. If a station wants to buy some second-rate American production which has gone through the hoops and is available for $5,000 instead of spending $30,000 to produce something in Australiaif the test is profit- the test of profit will tell all the time and the station will go for that cheap product. I do not think the stations should be in a position where they may do that. Further, I think we have to watch with great care, in any changes that occur, what happens in relation to children's television in Australia. This has worried many people over the past few weeks and I have received many messages on it. One came from 8 Liberal parliamentarians of the Victorian Upper House who are all well known to me. They are concerned with the situation of children's television in Australia. In a telegram to me they had this to say on self-regulation: 
The television industry has demonstrated for 20 years its total inability to cater for children's needs in their prime viewing time. Self-regulation will be a further abrogation of Government responsibililty to bring out the long overdue reform. Children's television can no longer be left to change and the commercial hunt for ratings.  lt was signed by the  Hon.  Peter Block and 7 other members of the Victorian Parliament. I cite that as only one example. That is not a satisfactory situation. There has not been for many years a situation in relation to which we can be satisfied with what the children in this community have had inflicted on them, because of the profit motive. Therefore I take this opportunity- not that it is closely related to the Bill but because the Bill is one that affects a change and because we are in a fluid situation where we have to look at certain changes- to say thai I think that we should be most vigilant to ensure that we are going to get something better out of this, something which uses the potentiality of television and radio and which does not let it slip into a matter of profit only. I believe that there is great importance in the need for vigilance by people in this community in this area. I acknowledge that, as a member of Parliament, I have taken inadequate interest and paid inadequate attention to radio and television as one of the things which are the responsibility of this Parliament. I hope that there will be a change in this regard. I believe that this Bill provides for some quite useful changes. It is a transitory measure. It does provide for the creation of a tribunal which can proceed. It does make some provisions for a temporary purpose. I believe that we must realise that in this transitory stage we are going to have to stand by standards, to stand by things which we want to see improved and to ensure that the community, in whose trust we are vested with power, will see that it does get out of all this a better system of radio and television. I support the Bill. I think it has useful provisions but I think that it is only the beginning for us all of a much greater and more useful interest in the radio and television industry. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to the report in the  Australian  on Monday, 6 December, regarding the financial problems that will be encountered by hospitals purchasing specialised equipment overseas now that the Australian dollar has been devalued. Will the devaluation effectively stop or severely curtail imports of such specialised life saving equipment, or is alternative action proposed to alleviate this situation? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science. I refer to the report in the Australian of 12 November, outlining the results of the tests conducted by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration into the concentrations of propel- lant gases, mainly fluorocarbons in the southern hemisphere. Are these tests part of a continuing program to ascertain the effect of these fluorocarbons on the ozone layer? Will recommendations be made regarding any necessary regulations on such propellant gases? If so, can the Minister indicate when the recommendations are likely to be available? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware of the claim by the Country Roads Board of Victoria, in its annual report tabled in the Victorian Parliament yesterday, that there are 3000 bridges and culverts in Victorian rural roads in urgent need of replacement and that only $2. 5m can be spared from the Board's finances for the $150m required for that purpose? Can the Minister comment on this situation and say whether any early amelioration of the position can be expected? 
I shall say some few words in reply to  Senator Button.  I assume that the Government will not accept the amendment. I think it is most unfair of  Senator Button  to bring in an argument which  Mr Falconer  raised in relation to the Australian Broadcasting Commission, which is an organisation running the national broadcasting service and which will continue to do that. Although the complexion of this organisation will change it will continue to run this national service. The honourable senator has transposed  Mr 
Falconer's words in that respect- I strongly support them- namely, that there should be continuity of employment for the people who are in their present positions. But under this clause we are discussing another matter with which  Mr Falconer  was not dealing at all, namely, that this is a new organisation to be known as the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. 
The honourable senator used the argument of  Mr Falconer  and transposed it to a completely separate situation, namely, that this clause sets up a new tribunal. The Australian Broadcasting Control Board is being abolished. The honourable senator is suggesting that when the Government transfers some of the Control Board's powers to the new Tribunal is must appoint to the Tribunal the same persons who were on the Control Board. If that suggestion were accepted, the Government would be inhibited in deciding who was suitable for appointment to the Tribunal with the powers that it will have. 
I have no doubt that the Government will take into account the people and the qualifications of the people who are on the existing Board, but to suggest that there is any relevance between this and the other situation is nonsense. The suggestion that the Government ought to be inhibited is, I think, quite inconceivable. 

 -Like Senator Button, I have a strong view in regard to worker participation. I acknowledge readily that an organisation like the Australian Broadcasting Commission is not an organisation which produces goods and so forth; it is an organisation in which it is the responsibility of the employees to have a great public concern. 
I think the situation is this: The amendments ought to be opposed. At the moment an elected staff representative is a member of the Commission. His appointment, as the Government has made it clear, is to be continued. He will be employed as a member of the Commission for the next 1 8 months or 2 years or whatever his term of office is. 
There is also provision in this Bill for consultative machinery. We will be able to judge in the next 1 8 months whether it is adequate, whether it will provide a panacea, or whether the election of a staff representative is still desirable. I think that it is desirable to have a period when these methods of participation can be seen in operation and tested. I happen to have strong views on the subject, though they may not be the views of all my colleagues. But I am content to wait and see how the whole effort pans out in that period, how the consultative machinery from low to high ranks, effectively brings the staff into the decisions that are made by management. I think therefore, that that particular amendment is not called for at this stage. 
With regard to the appointment of 2 women Commissioners, it is all right to say that there is no need to have this provision. But in fact we live in a society where I think we need to ensure that there are at least 2 women Commissioners. I hope that in future more than two will be appointed. But I think that there is no reason for cutting out that provision which would then be interpreted in a different way. 
I wish to speak very briefly to this amendment. In general, I feel a great deal of sympathy with the view put by  Senator Button  that these matters ought to be spelled out in the legislation. Of course, that has not happened. The Government has proposed that there should be matters which will be dealt with by regulation. What  Senator Button  ignores is that, first, this is interim legislation which sets up a body at this stage. Secondly, it sets up a council which is essentially advisory in nature. 
Nonetheless, I hope that account will be taken of the matters which have been put forward. I do not agree with some of the details of the amendment. I do not think that the point about consumer representation comes through in the Opposition's amendment. Reference is made to other organisations, officials and so on, which the Opposition wants included on the Council, but I do not think that the requirement for consumer representation is covered in the proposal. I do not propose to be petty about this because I believe it ought to be considered and I am sure that in determining the composition of this Council the Government will take it into account. 
I remind the Senate that the Regulations and Ordinances Committee of this Senate has constantly complained about major powers being left to regulation and not being set out in statutes. It is unfortunate that these powers and the existence of this Council are not provided for in the legislation. I rather hope that when the Government considers the next stage it will also consider the possibility of including those matters in the legislation, so that it will be known to the public and not have to be looked for in the regulations. Apart from that, I hope that the Government will consider some of the ideas which are spelled out in the amendment and will give further thought to those suggestions. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the recent increases in pension payments where, at the new levels, the maximum combined married rate is only 66.7 per cent higher than the maximum standard (single) rate, upon what cost of living rata or other sources is the relationship between these two rates based. 
Is this relationship constantly adjusted according to established criteria. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Will the Federal Government Committee set up to examine the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, be investigating the effectiveness of marketoriented research into the dairy industry and the potential benefits to be gained by primary producers and consumers. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Is it a fact that the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1966, that it came into operation with the required ratifications in 1976, that it has been ratified by 38 nations and that it has been signed but not ratified by Australia? Is there any substantial reason why the covenant should not now be ratified by Australia and brought into effect in this country? Has the Government any early plans to ratify the covenant? Does the Minister not agree that ratification by Australia would contribute to the international struggle against the widening world threats to basic human rights and personal liberties and against the growing use of torture throughout the world? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade whether he is aware of the long established practice of the Department of Overseas Trade of engaging experienced businessmen to act as trade commissioners on contract for a specified period with an option to renew. How many of these contracts have not been renewed by the Department since December 1975? How many of these trade commissioners on contract are still in the service? How many have been replaced by public servants, and is it proposed to phase out the contract system permanently? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and the Minister for Health. I refer to the report  Immigrants and Mental Health  issued by the Australian Council of Social Service on 24 January 1977, which outlined the deficiencies in mental health services available to migrants. Is the Minister aware of the report's claim that migrants suffer a higher incidence of psychiatric disorders compared to the rest of the community, being attributable to difficulties experienced in the migration and settlement process as well as to the current high unemployment rate among migrants? What steps are being considered to alleviate this particular situation? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer to the proposed amendment to the Trade Practices Act by the deletion of section 49 which prohibits price discrimination. Is the Minister aware of claims, particularly from small business organisations, that deletion of this section may seriously disadvantage milk bars and other small businesses in favour of the large supermarket chains, due to quantity discounts received by the supermarkets? Is it proposed to consider strengthening, rather than abolishing, the section or otherwise alleviating this further problem facing small businesses? 
I resume the debate on this motion which relates to a report presented unanimously, by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. It is headed:  Report on the Ordinary Annual Services of the Government.  This report, which was presented in June of last year and upon which debate has not resumed since, arises from an instruction which was given to the Committee on 14 November 1974. It arose then out of complaints which had been made by certain Senate Estimates Committees as to the operations of government financial legislation and the extent to which it was then alleged, as was the case in the previous year, that there were certain deviations from the compact which had been entered into in 1965 and which had been the basis upon which there was a distinction between those Bills which related to the ordinary annual services of the Commonwealth, which under the Constitution the Senate cannot amend, and those which related to other items. The Senate Committee was reconstituted and given its further reference after the last election on 2 March 1976. As I said, it then presented its report in June. In that report and the comments which I made to the Senate on the occasion I presented it, I pointed out in very brief terms the significance of the report and the recommendations which we then made. 
I think that I should say a little about the report because it is a long time since it was presented to honourable senators. I hope that tonight the debate on it will continue and will be completed. If at the end of this debate the Senate takes note of the report. I shall move a motion which is contained in the body of the report and which is designed to resolve and repeat what was and is the position with regard to the understanding of the Committee and, I think, the understanding of the Senate as to the Senate's respective powers. The Constitution of this country makes reference to the words 'the ordinary annual services of the Government'. I shall read a small sentence from section 53 of the Constitution which states: 
The Senate may not amend proposed laws imposing taxation, or proposed laws appropriating revenue or moneys for the ordinary annual services of the Government. 
A further reference to this same expression is contained in section 54 of the Constitution. It reads: 
The proposed law which appropriates revenue or moneys for the ordinary annual services of the Government shall deal only with such appropriation. 
Over many years there has been some doubt and some dispute as to precisely what is covered by the words 'ordinary annual services of the Government'. The expression is significant in that it determines those matters which the Senate cannot amend and those which it can amend. The High Court has had occasion to discuss this matter- I think this is set out in the report quite simply- and one could say that the Court, particularly in the case of  Osborne  v.  Commonwealth,  has pointed out that it is for Parliament to resolve what are the meanings of these expressions and to determine these matters, and not for the courts to endeavour in any way to define the power of the Parliament. 
The report traces the history of the expression in more detail. It shows that from the earliest days there was a division between that Bill which covered the ordinary annual services and other 
Bills. However, there was some idea by  Mr Deakin,  the first Attorney-General, that perhaps it would not be necessary to do so. But that continued to be the case until a problem arose in 1964 when  Mr Holt's  Budget of that year amalgamated certain Bills and in fact reduced the amounts in the amendable Bills from $70m to Sim- a very substantial change. It was the cause of complaint and resulted in the appointment of a Senate Government members committee under the chairmanship of  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. That committee investigated the background of the matter and reported on what ought to be the differentiation between these particular powers. Although the report of that committee of government senators was not tabled in the Parliament until 1967, it was made available at an earlier date. It resulted in a statement being made by  Mr Holt,  who was then Treasurer. I think that statement is generally known as the 1965 compact. The then Treasurer made clear what matters would and would not be considered within the framework of 'ordinary annual services'. For those honourable senators who do not have a copy of the report before them, page 11 states that  Mr Holt's  words are recorded in the May 1965  Hansard  at pages 1484-5. He said:  the Government has now decided that henceforth there will be a separate Bill . . . subject to amendment by the Senate, containing appropriations for expenditure on - 
the construction of public works and buildings; 
the acquisition of sites and buildings; 
items of plant and equipment which are clearly definable as capital expenditure; 
grants to the States under section 96 of the Constitution; and 
new policies not authorised by special legislation. Subsequent appropriations for such items will be included in the Appropriations Bill not subject to amendment by the Senate. 
The position then was that that compact continued to be observed and those particular items were in the Bill which could be amended until, as I mentioned, 1973 and 1974 when Senate Estimates Committees in each year raised objections. The objections came under paragraph (e) which I have read out- new policies not authorised by special legislation. A number of complaints are detailed in the report. It was suggested that these items were wrongly placed in the Bill; that they did not have special legislation applicable to them; and that this was depriving the Senate of the opportunity to amend the Bills in respect of such items. Having reviewed this aspect of the matter, the Senate Committee, in paragraph 25 of its report, stated: 
It is the opinion of this committee that the 196S Compact, considered in the light of the Government Senators Report upon which it was based, does not lend itself to an interpretation that a Government can place any financing for new policies in a non-amendable Bill purely on the basis that the required legislation would be forthcoming at a later date. 
The argument was advanced by Ministers that somehow this brought it outside the aspect of new policies. The Senate Committee was certainly satisfied that it did not do so. In the course of the consideration given by the Senate Committee to this matter- not just in relation to new policies but in relation to the application of the whole 1965 compact- there was correspondence between this Committee and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  On 8 April last year, as  chairman  of the Committee I wrote to the Treasurer, the  Hon.  P. R. Lynch, seeking his views as to whether or not the procedure announced by  Mr Holt  in 1965 in respect of ordinary annual expenditure would be followed in future appropriation legislation. That letter is set out in the appendix to the report. I think the reply which the Treasurer wrote to me is significant and should be read. The reply is dated 4 May 1 976 and reads: 
I refer to your letter of 8 April 1976 in which you sought my views on whether or not the procedure announced by the Treasurer in 1965 in respect of ordinary annual expenditure will be followed in future appropriation legislation. 
I am aware of the terms of the 1 965 compact and confirm that there is no present intention of seeking a change in its terms, i.e. we propose to follow it in the preparation of future appropriation legislation. 
The Committee recommends that in view of the Treasurer's letter, the Senate should accept the assurance given, that the 1965 compact will continue to operate. The second matter which was referred to the Committee for consideration and report to the Senate was the means by which the constitutional rights of the Senate to amend proposed laws appropriating revenue or moneys for expenditure on matters other than the ordinary annual services of the Government should be preserved. The Committee was of the opinion that the clear statement contained in the Treasurer's letter was, in the first place, an indication that the procedure was to be preserved. In general, the Committee's first conclusion, as we see on page 14 of the report, related to the future observance of the procedure. The Committee recommended: 
That the Senate continue to be vigilant in scrutinising all Appropriation Bills so as to ensure that Appropriation Bills for the ordinary annual services of the Government only contain appropriations for those services. 
There is nothing particularly extraordinary about that. I suppose this continued vigilance is always the duty of this Senate in many other things and should particularly be seen to be applied in this area to ensure that there are not accidental or otherwise departures from the 1965 compact. 
Turning to another section of the report, I refer to the resolution that the Committee recommends the Senate should reaffirm. This provides that the 1965 compact should continue. I propose when this debate has concluded to seek leave to move this motion to enable that compact to be continued. The motion is in these terms: 
The Senate resolves: 
To reaffirm its constitutional right to amend proposed laws appropriating revenue or moneys for expenditure on all matters not involving the ordinary annual services of the Government. 
That appropriations for expenditure on: 
The construction of public works and buildings; 
b ) the acquisition of sites and buildings; 
items of plant and equipment which are clearly definable as capital expenditure; 
grants to the States under Section 96 of the Constitution; and 
new policies not previously authorised by special legislation; are not appropriations for the ordinary annual services of the government and that proposed laws for the appropriation of revenue or moneys for expenditure on the said matters shall be presented to the Senate in a separate Appropriation Bill subject to amendment by the Senate. 
As I indicated, I propose to seek leave subsequently to move a motion in those terms. In conclusion may I say that I hope that the report of the Committee will be of assistance and that it will be a record in short form of  the history of  this matter and further that it will help towards the preservation of what seems to be a highly desirable compact reached by a government in earlier days. Subject to that, I do not propose to say anything further, 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the reported decision of the Federal Government to issue visas to a 3- member delegation from the Palestine Liberation Organisation to attend the InterParliamentary Union conference in Canberra in April 1977, and ask: Is this not a conference of representatives of the parliaments of recognised states? Is the Government aware of any established parliamentary body associated with or incorporated in the PLO? Does the Minister not agree that this application is a further subterfuge to enable propaganda exercises on behalf of an organisation that is pledged to the destruction of the parliamentary government of the Israeli state- a state recognised by the Australian 
Government? Will not the admission of the PLO observers create divisions, animosity and the risk of disorder inside Australia? Finally, if the Government is not prepared to deny visas to PLO observers, will it consider testing the existence of any real sincerity or interest by the PLO in the affairs of the Inter-Parliamentary Union by confining the visas to attendance in Canberra, where the conference is to be held, along the lines of the limited access imposed on Cuban delegates visiting New York while attending United Nations meetings? 
-I wish to speak only very briefly, but I want to make it clear that there are senators on this side of the chamber who support the Government in this motion, who hope that it will be passed and who hope that the pettifogging and the fogging that is going on here in an endeavour to obscure the issue - 
A moment ago you were going to be polite to people on this side of the chamber who disagreed with you. Just remember that. I happen to think that 'fogging' may be a strong word but I think that it is fogging over the issue. 
-I thank you,  Senator Harradine,  for reminding me of your nonsense argument, your argument that we should stand around here for 3 weeks so that the people - 
-With regard to  Senator Harradine  's speech, apparently we would sit around here for 3 weeks and wait for the people to formulate the particular proposals. This is nonsense because we know that these proposals in the main and with one excellent exception which the Government has improved on have been formulated and discussed over a period of years by a constitutional convention. They have been a matter of public discussion and they have been a matter that has not been brought to the general knowledge of the public without due notice. I know that of course there will be a lot of debate between now and May. If this matter is to be considered in May, it will have to go through this chamber rather speedily. Standing order No. 242 is one which was very suitable in the horse and buggy days, in the period in which honourable senators had to be called from far away when a constitutional amendment was being considered. Therefore they had to have the opportunity to be here and to consider it. As we have been told, 63 out of 64 senators are here anyway. 
Well, it is near enough. I am sure they know about the matter. You would have to be blind Freddie not to know that this matter is being discussed. It is no matter of disrespect to  Senator Chaney  when I refer to blind Freddie. Because I think this is a debate to confuse and a debate rather to obscure the issue, I say that I think we are all capable of making up our minds to debate the matter now and tomorrow. I hope we will go ahead and pass this motion. 
I rise to support the second reading of the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill. I do it with great enthusiasm. I am confident that its forces will carry through the Senate and that it will carry with other constitutional referendums through the poll which will take place on 21 May. We may well be seeing a new era where constitutional alterations that have gone through the vetting of a constitutional convention, come to the Parliament and then gone to the people will be treated by the people in a new way- not the way to be found in previous dealings with constitutional amendment when fog, fears and so forth have overwhelmed them. We may see a rational debate on this occasion. What happened tonight was not promising but I think that was only an opening skirmish. I am not terribly worried because it did not go to the essence of the matter. 
In this debate I must speak only to the general matter in the simultaneous elections Bill and not to the other Constitutional Alteration Bills which I also support enthusiastically. I wish to say one or two things about what has been said by  Senator Button  before coming to the major aspects of the debate. I congratulate  Senator Button  on being so lucky as to be consistent in his attitude on this Bill. I hope his attitude will hold throughout all the Constitution Alteration Bills. I have said in the last few days to some of my colleagues that consistency is not always the virtue it is cracked up to be. 
Yes,  Senator. I  was about to quote Ralph Emerson 's statement that consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds. It is very often little minds- I do not reflect on  Senator Button  here, he may be little but he does not have a little mind- that make a fetish or create some hobgoblin that they must be consistent at all times. Very often in politics it is more honourable and appropriate for a person to be able to announce that he has had a conversion of views; that he has listened to argument over the years and that he has seen a change. 
I do not know. I am afraid that I will have to leave it to my colleague to find out what he said about inconsistency. I merely say that consistency may be a happy and comforting thing but it is not necessarily always a virtue. In fact, I have no worry with regard to this proposal because for many years I have supported the idea that there ought to be simultaneous elections. I had plenty to say on this subject when it came up in 1974, although I was not then in the Senate. 
Debate interrupted. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health or alternatively to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. I refer to the report headed Privacy and the Therapeutic State' in the  Legal Services Bulletin  of October 1976 which claims that the Queensland Mental Health Act 1974 contains 20 provisions which violate the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. Is the Minister aware of the  report  's specific allegations that mental health patients' privacy is violated by the explicit and implicit use of coercion to apply treatment procedures of dubious value and effectiveness and that Queensland subjects its citizens to more therapeutic invasions of privacy than any other Australian State? Has the Commonwealth Government, in view of its international obligations, made any inquiries into these allegations? If so, with what results? What action is the Commonwealth Government taking to protect human rights in such situations? 
I rise to support the second reading of the 3 Bills before us, the Representation Amendment Bill, the Census and Statistics Amendment Bill and the Commonwealth Electoral Amendment Bill. All three are necessary to bring into effect the various amendments to the electoral system which are required by reason of High Court decisions of recent times and which also pick up other necessary changes which the Government desires to bring into operation straight away. 
I am invited to say something in respect of what  Senator Mulvihill  said. It is a strange thing that I always seem to follow  Senator Mulvihill  in debates in the Parliament. I suppose that if there is ever a change of government, perhaps in the next 15 or 20 years, he will have the pleasure of following me instead. For the moment I have the advantage. 
Before I come to the major part of my argument I wish to say something about the comments that have been made by the first 2 speakers for the Opposition. I shall pick up some of the matters raised by  Senator Douglas  McClelland in the body of my speech but one curious, almost unfair, thing I must refer to is his complaint that the Minister for Administative Services  (Senator Withers)  did not set out in detail in these Bills how the elections at large should be conducted. I am delighted that  Senator Withers  and his team have not bothered to waste their time at this stage in trying to translate the monster of the election at large into something which will probably be even more monstrous if we have to see it in all its horror. Because of the High Court's decision, if we did not carry out a proper redistribution when a State has a change in the number of members it is entitled to there would have to be an election at large- an election whereby all the members for that State would be elected in one large ballot- which would be a sort of monstrous three times over Senate-type poll. I suppose this would send the Australian people into some sort of tizzy. It would just about end democracy in this country if we had to try to persuade people to vote for- I use New South Wales as an example- about 45 members from 300 candidates. 
These Bills provide the methods whereby regular determinations will be made at a certain stage after each election in accordance with the High Court's decision. We will know the number of seats to which a State is entitled and the preselections that are required by reason of any change in numbers can go ahead in a proper manner and will apply for the next ordinary general election.  Senator Douglas  McClelland 's criticism seemed to me to be unnecessary. I am glad that the Minister and his Department have been concentrating on the major matter and not on a horror which I hope will never be seen by the people of this country, that is, that they should have to elect perhaps 45 candidates at one time. 

 Senator Mulvihill said two or three very interesting things about these Bills. I regret that he trotted out again the old chestnut that his Party gained 42 per cent of the votes in the last election and only gained 36 per cent of the seats. I think  Senator Douglas  McClelland also had some worries about the fact that the Labor Party obtained a certain percentage of votes but did not get the same percentage of seats.  Senator Mulvihill  knows as well as I do and any other honourable senator in this chamber does that there are such things as 2-party preferred votes and preference votes. Fifty-eight per cent of people who vote want a member of the Liberal Party or a member of the National Country Party to be elected. They are entitled to have their preferences. That is why such a big proportion of the seats went to those parties in the last election. It is no good trotting out this old chestnut about not getting as many seats. The large majority of people exchange preferences and elect the government of their choice. 
On 2 occasions in his speech  Senator Mulvihill  praised the High Court enthusiastically. He said that what is lost on the swings- he finds the Government a loss- is picked up by the progressive attitude of the High Court. In recording those words I hope he will always be as enthusiastic about the decisions that the High Court will make over the years. 
-With due respect, the former  Senator Murphy  is but one member of the High Court and, magical though he may be, I do not think that he could necessarily bewitch all the other members of the Bench.  Senator Mulvihill  must recognise that he is inviting here an attitude towards the High Court which I trust will be consistently followed. Even if the High Court does not always please  Senator Mulvihill  as much as it does now, I trust that he will always accept it in the same ready way as he has accepted it in relation to that decision. In addition, he says we have reached the millennium of a 10 per cent variation. I am not prepared to go to the extent of expressing quite the same exciting words as  Senator Mulvihill  expressed on this aspect, but I am prepared to say that I am very happy that a 10 per cent variation is the prevailing figure. 
-That is so. Neither this country nor any other country can provide for an absolute or 100 per cent quota. One has to allow a margin for changes that take place in electorates. One has to make some provision for covering the electorates that are going to grow later and the others that are going to dwindle later. One has to take into account the various factors that make some electorates rather more difficult to service than others. I agree that the 10 per cent variation is a good margin. Although there were representations about it, I am very pleased that the Government does not propose to reintroduce the previous 20 per cent variation. 
One has to take into account the fact that with a margin like that there is provision for a variation of 40 per cent, not just 20 per cent. Some seats may be 20 per cent above the quota and others may be 20 per cent below the quota. I have always felt that that is excessive. I have always felt that there are other ways of meeting the problems that are experienced in the electorates that are difficult to service, such as those that cover very sparse areas. Extra allowances are provided under the Electoral Act to members representing those electorates. Extra staff can be allocated to those members whose electorates cover vast areas. I think that more could probably be done to assist members in this area. I strongly support the contention that more be done in that way rather than there be a change in the value of the vote of a person who lives in one part of Australia and a person who lives in another part of Australia. We remain committed to a 10 per cent margin- that is 10 per cent up and 10 per cent down. That will enable seats to bear some allowance for the difficulties involved in a large electorate. 
The second matter which the Opposition is opposing and which is contained in this Bill is, of course, the provision that does not alter the criteria that apply under the Electoral Act, but adds the extra criterion in regard to the large electorates of 5000 square kilometres. This, of course, is the same criterion that has been taken into consideration by the Remuneration Tribunal in providing for differences in the various electoral allowances of members representing smaller and larger electorates. It is therefore a logical application to apply this figure. It is well to bear in mind that under the Act as it now stands there are the various criteria to be taken into account that  Senator Young  mentioned earlier in his speech. These criteria are to remain there. They include the community of interest within a division, including economic, social and regional interests; the means of communication and travel within a division; the trend of population changes within a State; the physical features of a division, and the existing boundaries of divisions and sub-divisions. To be added to those considerations to be taken into account is the fact that the larger electorates of 5000 square kilometres are not to have more people in them than those that are, in effect, city electorates. Therefore there will not be the disparity that has been criticised. 
I think that there are some difficulties in this proposal in the sense that there is to be a restriction as to how widely one can take into account a city electorate which is fast growing. I think that there will be some difficulty in giving very much credence to that because, taking such a city electorate of, say, 60 000 electors in Victoria, where 10 of the 33 electorates are what are called larger electorates, it would mean that those larger electorates must be lower in number or of the same number as that city electorate. Therefore, of course, one could not make the city electorate that is growing, a very small electorate because one would be thereby effectively lowering the number of voters in those 10 electorates in the country. 
I know that it is a fact that when the distribution commissioners come to consider these matters they take into account the various criteria that are before them and that no single criterion is absolutely applicable. I know that they must weigh them up together and that they must take all of them into account. Of course, there is the provision that there can be not more than a 10 per cent variation from the quota between electorates. Although I think that this will limit somewhat the ability of the commissioners to reduce very much a city electorate that has potentiality for quick growth, one must bear in mind that there are provisions for redistribution and that there is now some certainty laid down in the Act as to when those redistributions will take place. There must be a test in every Parliament as to whether a State is entitled to more or fewer seats. If it happens that a State is so entitled there has to be a redistribution in that State. 
There is provision for a redistribution when one quarter of the seats get out of alignment with the 10 per cent variation. There is also the provision which has been criticised and which, I think, has some merit that there will not be redistributions on that ground alone before a period of 7 years has elapsed. Under the High Court's decision and without those provisions there could be a redistribution taking place every Parliament. I think that this would be very disturbing for the electors of the Commonwealth. 
-New South Wales may have them much more frequently, but it seems to me that it will cause difficulties if there is a change every election and people are moved from one electorate to another. They will not know where they are and who is their member. The various branches of the Party organisations would have to change from electorate to electorate. An enormous amount of disturbance would take place. 
There is one factor with regard to the provision that has been made concerning the electorates of 5000 square kilometres that I think I ought to raise before the Senate. It is a matter that was brought to my attention by my colleague  Senator Austin  Lewis, who has not made his maiden speech but who is quite a respected expert insofar as regional organisation is concerned and who has been concerned for many years with elections affecting large electorates of this nature. He has pointed out to me matters that go beyond the matters set out in the Bill, including the community of interest aspect. A factor that he has pointed out to me which does not come into consideration under the various criteria at the moment in relation to the large electorates is that in those electorates there is a large number of municipalities and organisations that are constantly requiring the attention of their members, lt does not matter that there is not a great number of people in a particular district. It is not just a matter of the size and area of such electorates. There is also the fact that in these electorates there happen to be many local organisations that require personal attention. They ask for it and need it much more than do most city electorates. There is some commonalty of interest among the people throughout the cities and those people are not so tied to their local organisations and interests. 
As  Senator Lewis  knows and, no doubt, as members in the House of Representatives know very well, members are constantly in demand and they therefore need to give a great deal of personal attention to representations made to them. In the larger electorates there are many organisations and local newspapers, whereas the city electorates have perhaps one municipality and only one or two local newspapers. This factor that he has picked up about the qualification concerning electorates of 5000 square kilometres is a factor which I do not think has been referred to very much in the discussions previously on this proposal. I thank  Senator Lewis  for pointing out that aspect to me. 
One other matter I want to say something about concerns clause 10 of the Commonwealth Electoral Amendment Bill. I think I have mentioned already that this provides that there shall be a determination of the results in any alteration of the number of members. This will be done as set out in the Representation Amendment Bill and put into effect early in the new Parliament. Therefore the matter will then go through to a redistribution which takes some dme but it will all be completed in time for the next election. 
I commend the Bills that are before the Senate. The Representation Amendment Bill sets out other significant matters and the Census and Statistics Amendment Bill necessarily follows from the McKinlay judgment of the High Court. Therefore I think these Bills are very necessary in the interests of this Parliament and the people knowing where they are going, knowing that there will be a redistribution in the life of this Parliament under the terms of these Bills. The people will be able to get to know this and each party will be able to select its candidates well in advance of an election. I commend the spirit of the Bills and the way in which they have complied with the requirements of the High Court. I think the general provisions show that the Government has carefully considered the representations before it. 
I am sorry that I am resuming my speech quite as quickly as I am because of the incident which has just occurred, but I am glad of the opportunity to be able to speak on the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill. It is a referendum proposal being put forward by the Government, along with 3 other proposals, and one which I support along with those proposals. I had already commenced my speech and spoken briefly in respect of the remarks made last evening by  Senator Button.  I had expressed my good luck to  Senator Button  because he was able to feel such happiness in his consistency of approach on this subject, and I assured him that I felt the same consistency of approach. For many years I have felt that this amendment to the Constitution was highly desirable. I want to speak, firstly, about the general proposition. There are arguments that apply to all four of the referenda proposals and I apply my views to those four proposals, but I will deal with them particularly in relation to this Bill. The first thing to remember about the referenda proposals is that what we are doing is voting for a proposition that certain proposals should be put before the people. We are not determining, and we have no right to determine, what shall be the changes in the Constitution. What we are doing is simply saying that these are important proposals which have been discussed for many years in the community. In fact they have had the endorsement in all essence of a Constitutional Convention and were considered there in recent times. Therefore it is our duty, both with respect to that Convention and with respect to our desire that the public should have these opportunities, that they now be put before the people. 
There are, of course, both long term and short term benefits in this proposal, and this matter was raised to a certain extent in  Senator Button's  speech. One does not walk away from that fact, but indeed there are some short term benefits which the Government will note and will enjoy. Sometimes proposals are put forward which have short term disadvantages and long term benefits, but in the case of all these propositions I believe that they have both short term and long term benefits. For example, they do extend the period of the sittings of the members of this Parliament, although that is perhaps not the major benefit. To take  Senator Wright  as an example, he will not be resuming his seat in the Senate after this Parliament but one of the short term benefits of this legislation is that we will have six further months of  Senator Wright's  advice to this Senate. I am sure that is something for which we will all be grateful. 
-I assure  Senator Wright  that I meant that sincerely. As I have said, it is one of the short term benefits. So far as this Parliament is concerned, in order to bring together the 2 Houses of the Parliament, these Bills will provide the opportunity for a longer period and we will not have to reduce the periods for which members of the House of Representatives sit in order to bring the 2 Houses into alignment. To shorten the Parliament would not be politically desirable nor acceptable and it would be generally agreed that it would not occur. In speaking of the benefits, let me refer to an article written by  Mr Peter  Cole-Adams which appeared in the Age newspaper on 19 February. After a very good analysis of these 4 propositions he concluded in the following way: 
The four questions being put to us in May were endorsed by the majority of delegates at the Hobart Constitutional Convention. They are being supported, at least in principle, not only by the Federal Government but also by the Federal Opposition and a majority of State Governments. 
If in these circumstances we as a nation again prove ourselves incapable of saying 'yes', the prospect of our ever removing other, graver anomalies from our Constitution must be meagre indeed. 
Cynicism about  Mr Fraser's  motives is understandable, but those who allow it to dictate their votes on May 2 1 really will be indulging in a classic exercise in cutting off their noses to spite their faces. 
I at least congratulate members of the Opposition for deciding not to do that. They have expressed their cynicism, it is true, but they are not going to take away the long term advantages to this country which are involved in agreement to these propositions. 
Another fundamental reason why these referenda propositions, now contained in this Bill in particular, should be accepted is that, as I have already said, they have had the substantial endorsement of, and have been discussed at length by, the Constitutional Convention, which has been meeting off and on over the last few years. One must remember, and we on this side of the chamber ought to remember, that that Convention was set up under the McMahon 
Government. It was set up under the Government of the Parties which are again in government. I think it was at the suggestion of  Mr Henry  Bolte and the Victorian Parliament that the initiative first came about, and since that time we have had the opportunity for the Convention to continue. It has had its ups and downs. It has not always looked like surviving, but it has survived and has had the opportunity to discuss these matters. Of course, if we in this Parliament should be so foolish as to reject these Bills, and if the people do not accept the propositions which have come through the Convention, then I think we face the fact that that Convention probably has failed. Then the chances of doing a reasonable and rational amendment of the Constitution in this century may have failed. 
I feel therefore that it is terribly important that these proposals, which received the overwhelming endorsement of the Constitutional Convention last November, should succeed and show that we in Australia can go through a rational process of discussing constitutional reform. I make the forecast that the result of these propositions will be that we will get a new approach to constitutional reform. 
I know that attempts will be made to obscure the situation, not to discuss items altogether by their merits but to suggest fears, doubts and obscurities. Unfortunately this has been the process of constitutional reform in this century. One hears from some who do not support the proposals that they place some reliance and credence on their success in the 1967 nexus referendum when there was a proposal that the requirement that there be twice as many House of Representatives seats as the number of senators should be broken. Of course, attached to that referendum was a provision as to the number of members of Parliament that there would be and the number of voters- I think it was 80 000- per seat. There was glorious pay-dirt for objectors. There was a glorious argument which appealed to many people, namely, that we do not want more members of Parliament. That argument will not be available to the opponents of this referendum because this referendum, in fact, proposes fewer elections in Australia - 
I suggest that it is not debatable at all; that is the obvious effect of this referendum proposal. Far from this being something which can be turned against politicians by saying that we do not want more of them so we should vote against the proposal, I think the Australian people will be ready to say that we have had over the years too many elections and too often and that situation will be solved by the proposed constitutional amendment. I believe that the sorry history of reform which we have had over the years could well be changed by this series of constitutional amendments. The proposals have had overwhelming support by rational men from all Australian parliaments and from all parties who met in November and therefore will have the type of endorsement which calls for support by the people of Australia. This support ensures that they will not have the fears which they found so easily engendered in the past. 
What is terribly important to us is that these referendum proposals are the first that emerged from the Constitutional Convention. One should say that one of the proposals goes further, because the Federal Government has logically taken it further than the Convention did. But all the proposals were discussed and dealt with in that Convention and they are therefore the products of a rational consideration of constitutional reform. 
Leaving that major argument which applies to every one of the constitutional amendments I turn to the matter of simultaneous elections. We know that elections have been out of alignment in Australia at least since 1963, and on one occasion before then. We know also that if we proceed without the acceptance of this constitutional amendment we will have about 14 national elections between 1961 and 1981. In 20 years there will be 14 national elections when a lot of the business of government stops, when we must approach the people and when we have therefore a great loss of opportunity - 

 - Senator, you would be a past master in the lot of boloney that you talk about. I bow to you in respect; you would know more about that than I would. A constitutional amendment in relation to simultaneous elections will ensure that elections for the 2 Houses are brought together, and we can have at such elections a full national debate on issues. Half the Senate will go out with the House of Representatives at each election every 3 years. 
In addition to that there is a provision in this referendum proposal that the Federal Parliament will make laws as to the times and places of elections, and not the States as in the past. We discovered last year what could happen under the present provisions of the Constitution. From one State to another there could be a different time and a different place for elections. There could be a series of elections running over a period of months suiting one State Parliament or another. One of the useful effects of this referendum proposal is to bring that into the Federal sphere so that the Federal Parliament can make laws in respect of such electoral matters. 
I know that in 1974 this same proposal came before the people in a different situation and was somewhat narrowly defeated. We must remind ourselves- I think we could have reminded  Senator Rae  last night when he was reading from a 1 974 No case- that on that occasion there were 4 proposals, most of them bitterly opposed by the members of the parties that I belong to and support. The proposals were held to constitute great danger by the Opposition as we were at that time. It was argued, particularly in my State of Victoria- I took a different view- that one could not recommend voting yes for one question and then no, no, no, and expect the people to understand and to vote in that way. 
I think the people of Australia are becoming more accustomed to constitutional debate. We are getting a better educated community every day. I believe, however, that there was a sound psychological argument behind the idea that if we advocated a yes vote for one proposal and then 3 no votes we would confuse the public and lose the referendum. That was a convincing argument, as I know to my sorrow, in Victoria. 
But the situation has changed. Different proposals will now accompany the simultaneous elections referendum proposal and I believe that we can face these without being tied down to arguments that were put forward on an earlier occasion. Perhaps they were not as well expressed as one would hope. I think we will find that in this referendum basically the people will look at the facts as they are and will not be so worried as to whether A said this and A says this now. They will not be concerned with this but they will be concerned with what is the correct and sensible argument to be advanced for or against the proposition. 
This matter has been considered for a long time. I want to detail now what to me seem to be the benefits which the people of Australia will gain by passing this referendum proposal. In the first place, in the short term there will be some security of government, some security in the effort which is being made to restore the Australian economy. The further period of government without an election which comes as an optional extra from this referendum will be an additional help to the improvement in the economy which we can expect. There will not be an earlier poll. 
Otherwise, if we wanted to bring the elections for both Houses together we would have to have a premature poll. I think that would not be desirable for the people. In future we will have contemporaneous polls for both the Senate and the House of Representatives not, as in the past on many occasions a separate Senate election and then a separate election for the House of Representatives, with people saying that the Senate was not contemporaneous, that it was out of date, that its senators did not represent the opinion of the people now. Half the Senate will have gone to the poll at that time on similar issues, and senators will be taking part in a full debate on these matters. 
We will get rid of the spectre of separate polls which we have had for years. We know what separate polls for the Senate have been like. We know the effect of them. We know that in a way they are a sort of shadow of the national debate. The election campaigns have not been debates on Senate issues. The polls turn out to be gallup polls or some sort of national opinion polls which do not defeat the government or destroy the government. It is claimed at such polls that people can vote against a government in a Senate election and the result will not destroy the government; that it will show the displeasure of the community if people vote for an independent or some small party. We know what happened in 1970 when, at a loss to the major parties of both sides of this Parliament, small parties and independents and people with rather exotic eccentric ideas on one particular subject- abolition of death duties was the feature of one platformwere elected. Of course, that will always happen when the government is not in any way at stake and when a poll is held that allows the people to vote at random believing that they are doing nothing to change the government of this country but, in fact, perhaps are making it unworkable. 

 - Senator Cavanagh, you know that in an ordinary election candidates are not elected on the basis of one issue. I put it to you that, in fact, it is curious, when members are elected to this place to deal with all the matters involved such as the economy and the state of the nation, to find a candidate elected who has committed himself on only one issue. I believe that leads to a great deal of obscurity and a great deal of doubt in the soundness of government in this country. 
In addition to this, one also has this situation: Under the existing polls we have what might be called lame duck senators. They are senators who will go to the poll in November of a year, as is the case at present. If the election is held well ahead of the mandatory date their term will not expire until 1 July or 30 June of the next year. They are defeated. They will no longer be in the Parliament. But they will stay in the Parliament for the next 6, 7 or 8 months. Their successors will languish in the wings during that period. That situation will cease if the amendment is carried. The people who are elected will go straight into the Parliament. I suggest that that altogether is an advantage. It is an unsatisfactory situation for a member of Parliament to know that he has been defeated. Therefore, he cannot be expected to take the same interest in the continuity of parliamentary government. In addition to this- this point was made even by  Sir George  Turner, the Premier of Victoria, in 1897 at the conventionthe cost of separate polls would be saved. He then expressed the view that in most places surely polls would be held together thereby leading to great savings. We know that now that saving would represent millions of dollars a year if, in fact - 
-The latest figures which the research officers of the Liberal Party of Australia provided in a document today show that the figure would be about $Sm to $5. 5m. That is their estimate of what it would cost to have separate a poll. 
I suggest that that is a very great saving for the country. 

 -Yes, Senator Townley, you will have your say; do not worry about that. Another factor is involved. I advance this argument as representing a further benefit to the people: As we all know, when a separate Senate poll is held government ceases to some extent. Ministers are expected to travel around the country and take part in that poll, even if it is a separate Senate poll. Therefore, we find that separate polls like that cause some running down of government for some period. We have only 3 years between House of Representatives polls, anyway. If we have during that period another poll and concentration must be directed towards the necessity of winning a Senate election, I do not think that makes for a good government. The workings of committees of the Parliament, including joint committees, tend to stop. Much of the work of the Parliament grinds to a halt during this period. 
I move from that question of the benefits involved to point out that the argument of constructive government which I present under this oil arrangement is one which has been debated before particularly by the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review in 1959. The argument which was made there, among other things, was that in the past, even when the polls for the Houses were held together, they were often brought together by a premature dissolution of the House of Representatives. There was a shorter period of government in order to bring them together. That happened on a number of occasions. I quote extracts from the 1959 report of the Constitutional Review Committee. It was composed of distinguished members of this Parliament. They sat for a long period and considered the matter. This is what they stated in paragraph 243 of their report: 
The Committee concludes from Parliamentary experience since Federation, firstly that the existence of fixed senatorial terms has increased the number of elections and secondly, that the number of occasions on which there would have been separate elections for senators and members of the House of Representatives would have been greater unless the House of Representatives had been dissolved before the expiration of its full term. 
That was the point that I was making a moment ago. They go on to state further in paragraphs 246 and 247: 
The Committee concluded, in paragraph 243 above, that an increased number of Senate elections has been avoided by obtaining the dissolution of the House of Representatives before the expiration of its normal life of three years. But the cost of this course of action can be heavy in terms of constructive government. A premature election brought about by the need to synchronise general elections with elections for senators makes it difficult to obtain constructive government. If separate elections for senators are held, work of the Parliament is completely disrupted. Members of the House of Representatives, as well as senators, must devote their energies  to the task of  obtaining the best possible results for their respective parties at the elections. 
The disadvantages caused by the allotment of fixed terms for senators, to which the Committee has referred, would be overcome if one-half of the number of senators were required to retire at every dissolution of the House of Representatives. 
The report goes on to deal with the benefits of this for another page. I recommend it as reading to all honorable senators. I know that it will be argued- I have heard this argument alreadythat somehow the Senate's security and the Senate's power will be diminished by the carriage of this referendum proposal. 
-No, it is not the Liberal Party's argument at all. I do not think that that argument will hold water with the Liberal Party, the National Country Party or the people. I believe that the Senate's influence in this country has grown by its own making. The Senate has faced separate elections before. It has faced joint elections. But it has grown to a zenith of power in recent years not because of separate elections. Honourable senators may recall that the last 2 elections- the one in 1974 and the one in 1975- were not separate elections. They were double dissolutions. Yet in 1974 there was left in the Senate after the election a majority hostile to the then government. I do not believe that in any way the Senate's real significance to this country is dependent upon the fortuitous fact that there have been some separate elections in recent years. We should not be dependent upon that. 
We should realise that the actions of the Senate are to be found in its rightful power of review, its committee system and in the integrity of its members and their ability sometimes to stand up to governments and to say: 'We will not accept this even if we belong to the same Party'. At times there are reasons why senators must in the discussion of these matters in the Party rooms and elsewhere, stand up to the Government. The Senate is not dependent upon the fortuitous accident of having separate elections- those ghastly elections that we have seen in the past. That is not the responsible way to power. 
I do not believe in the arguments which we have heard, which we will hear and which I have heard around the Senate already that somehow a government, under this constitutional proposal, will rush to another election immediately after an election in order to bring out a hostile Senate. In this country, the people are concerned about premature elections. They are not very pleased at being called to vote at elections. Any government that came into power and then sought to hold a quick election again to get rid of the other half of the Senate would risk all. It would risk the loss of the whole of its power.  Mr Whitlam  in 1973 at the height of his powers threatened this action on occasions when he seemed to have a great deal of support. I think that he had the double dissolution Bills available but he did not do it. Therefore, I do not believe that the irrational fears that somehow we as the Senate will lose rights or powers will result. 
I believe that what we must do in this country now is let the people vote on these issues. I believe that the people will not be confused. I believe that they will see in the whole 4 issues that are before them excellent provisions of justice for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, proper provisions in regard to judges, proper provisions for Senate vacancies and above all, in this proposal, provision for fewer elections for the people- probably better and more responsible elections. For these reasons and trusting that the ideas of the constitutional conventions will meet with the favour of the Senate and the people, I support the Bill with all my heart. 
Debate interrupted. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to those persons in Victoria who were killed or suffered injury as fire fighters as a result of the extensive fires in the Western District on Saturday, 12 February 1977. Is the Minister able to tell the Senate whether the dependants of those persons killed and the persons who were injured in the fire fighting are entitled to any form of compensation, insurance or other payments as a result of the loss of support or injury suffered? If the answer is no, does the Minister not agree that in view of their service and sacrifice they should receive first priority in any payments to be made by the Federal Government towards the relief of victims of the fires? 
Though it was not my intention in rising tonight to speak on the subject about which  Senator Chaney  has spoken I warmly support what he has said and hope likewise in relation to the terrible tragedies occurring in Cambodia that more facts will be known and something can be done in the situation. My purpose in rising and saying a few words is to support the petition which  Senator Coleman  has already mentioned to the Senate this evening. As another member of the executive of the Parliamentary Group of Amnesty International, I warmly support the petition. Many honourable senators from this side of the chamber also have signed this petition tonight, as have many members of the House of Representatives. I think that we see an opportunity in this action. The new  President  of the United States of America has made some outstanding statements about and given outstanding indications of goodwill and interest in human rights in the world. Because of what he has said and done already, we may have some hopes that the United States will take some further interest in the problem nearest to us, in our region. I refer to the problem of Timor where the position appears to be at a standstill. We do not know what is happening and we have not had a satisfactory explanation of the deaths of 5 Australians who were killed or about the many people who have been killed, wounded or treated badly in the course of the hostilities which have broken out in that unhappy country. 
It may well be that the  President  of the United States will be able to do something under the terms of this petition. He may be able to persuade the Government of Indonesia to comply with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and to allow the International Red Cross to resume humanitarian activities in East Timor. It is in the hope that by addressing this petition to him and bringing these matters to his immediate attention we as members of the Parliament can do something worthwhile and perhaps achieve something in the unhappy position of East Timor that we have taken this action. With those words, I state that I warmly support the petition. Any honourable senators who have not signed this petition are invited to do so. I hope that they will see us before this day is out. 
If I may comment on this amendment, I understood that the intention of this amendment is to ensure that elections for both Houses be held at the same time and to write this provision into the Constitution. As I understand the proposal, which is in the original Bill, it is so highly unlikely that the elections would be held at different times in a situation where following the elections the members of the Senate would take their seats at the same time as the members of the House of Representatives. 
I suppose one can conceive a crazy situation in which it was decided to have an election for the 
House of Representatives one week and an election for the Senate a week or so later. I imagine that would be most unpopular with the Australian people if it did happen. I think it is so inconceivable that the amendment becomes unnecessary and that in fact the substance of the amendment put forward by the Government in this amending Bill is simultanous elections. Obviously the whole purpose of it is to bring elections for both Houses into line as was the practice years ago. Although this leaves with the Paliament the right to make laws in respect of the date and timing of the elections it is obvious that no Parliament in its right senses would contemplate having anything like a weeks difference or something like that in the holding of the elections. I therefore suggest that the amendment is unnecessary in any event. 
-I do not desire to repeat what the Minister has said. He admirably answered the propositions made by  Senator Rae. Senator Rae,  when 1 interjected during his speech, suggested that I should do him the courtesy of hearing his chronological discussion of this matter. I then waited to hear what he was going to say about the 1976 Constitutional Convention proposal. What he did not mention- I think that this ought to be in the record- was the resolution which the Convention carried in October 1976. That resolution stated: 
That this Convention recommends that the Constitution be amended, in terms of the Constitution Aleration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill that was submitted to referendum in May 1 974 so as to ensure that Senate elections are held at the same time as House of Representatives elections. 
I merely point out that that resolution could not have been more specific. Whatever dissatisfaction  Senator Rae  may feel about the fact that there was not more debate. This resolution indicates satisfaction by the members of the Convention. They voted on a matter which was so certain and which is, in essence, the proposal before the chamber today. I think it is a pity that  Senator Rae  did not mention that this was the final result of the Convention discussion. 
Something which was said by  Senator Wright  simply must be replied to. He used a number of examples and suggested that we look at the Australian statistics. He referred to the British House of Commons, where the situation is very different from here because there are no State parliaments and no State elections. 
-We will not go into irrelevant details. Let us look at the situation in Australia which  Senator Wright  cited. He suggested that we look at the number of occasions on which the House of Representatives has sat for less than 3 years. He said that, therefore, the Senate periods may be reduced. The argument is very much on the other foot. Why were some of those sittings of the House of Representatives so short? Partly, they were short in order to keep within the provision which applies at the present moment so that there could be simultaneous elections in fact. Before we got .completely out of kilter in 1963, under the present provisions a number of elections were kept as simultaneous elections by dissolving the House of Representatives after a shorter period. In other words, the present provisions have reduced the House of Representatives period. 
One example was given by the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review in 1959 in paragraph 238 of its report. The Committee referred to action taken in 1 929 and then to the fact that 2 years later the House of Representatives came to an end. The report stated: 
It was only because the twelfth Parliament was dissolved 2 years later that the next election for senators was able to be held simultaneously with the election for members of the House of Representatives. 
The Joint Committee referred to the premature dissolutions of the House of Representatives just to keep elections simultaneous. Therefore, the figures  Senator Wright  has given are arguments not for his amendment but for the proposal of the Government to bring Senate elections into alignment with House of Representatives elections. So, the argument does not serve him; nor does it suggest that in the future we will have so many of these short terms for the House of Representatives. It is more likely that it will go for the full 3-year term. 
I believe it is necessary to reply to what  Senator Wright  said a few minutes ago. The amendment we have before us was put before us at short notice. 
-Well, to my mind last night is short notice and it is short notice to the mind of any other sensible person. We know that at the Constitutional Convention considerable time was available to consider this matter and a definite recommendation was put. That recommendation is before the Senate. The amendment  Senator Jessop  moved has been criticised by  Senator Steele  Hall and I rose to support that view. If one looks at this amendment one cannot be absolutely certain what its effect will be. It is quite specific in its terms, however. It says that in the case of a senator holding office at the commencement of this section, whose term of office expires in 1978, the term of office shall expire upon the expiration or dissolution of the House after he has held office under that term for 18 months. If he has to hold office until 1 98 1 it shall expire after 3 years. I think it is a very reasonable conclusion to say that that probably is an infringement and a restriction which would be imposed upon the opportunity to have double dissolutions under section 57 which bring senators to an election before their time. If that means what it says a senator shall have an assured office for 18 months if he is a short term senator and 3 years if he is a long term senator. Therefore, as a recent amendment of the Constitution, surely it will cut across the ability to have a double dissolution. 
That is my interpretation of this amendment. I believe it to be correct. The amendment has not been examined thoroughly enough to enable one to say whether or not that interpretation is correct. But that is my honest belief. I would not for one moment support an amendment like that when we have before us a specific recommendation that has been known and discussed for some years and which makes sense. This amendment of  Senator Jessop  's is highly dangerous and possibly interferes with the existing provisions of the Constitution. 
I support very warmly this constitutional proposal. It is essential and long overdue. As  Senator Button  said, it has become much more urgent by reason of the happenings of 1975 in respect of the vacanciesin New South Wales and Queensland, which were not filled by persons belonging to the same party as the deceased and retiring senators. 
Field was not a member of the Labor Party. Immediately hestood against his party's wishes he was no longer a member and that was known to the Premier of Queensland. Time will not permit me to deal with irrelevant interruptions.  Senator Button  referred to a meeting of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review in 1959. This Committee did not find the solution to the problem. It did not feel that this would be an important issue. It felt that people would observe the convention. The importance of this convention now, if the people approve, to be turned into law is that the proportional representation system of election must be maintained. It is important that there should be certainty about that. It is important that we know that those who vote for a certain party at a certain time can see a replacement coming from the same party as the senator he is replacing. This can be done now only by a constitutional referendum. 
It is true that this matter was discussed by the Constitutional Convention last year. Fortunately the Government's proposal goes a little further than what the Convention proposed. The Convention wanted to limit it to serious illness or incapacity, which it would be impossible to define. The important thing is not how a vacancy comes about; the important thing is that vacancies shall be filled in accordance with proportional representation and the balance of the Senate shall be maintained. Otherwise, in the future the fortunes of death or other sudden happenings may remove a couple of senators from one party and they may be replaced by people from another party, thus changing the whole balance of power in the Senate without any vote of the people. 
It has been said in the Press that some areas are not covered entirely by this referendum proposal. Independents are not covered by it, but of course they are not covered at the moment. A State at the moment makes the decision that it wants to make and it is not changed. Of course the Bill refers to political parties. There is no reason in the world why political parties should not be referred to in our Constitution. The important thing is that in 98 per cent of cases we will now provide for certainty in the maintenance of representation. If the referendum is passed, we will know that a successor will come from the same party as the senator he is replacing. 
The second part of the amendment, which is likewise most valuable and originates from the Constitutional Convention last year, is the provision that the person appointed to fill a vacancy shall not just fill it until the next election, when he may be thrown out and proportional representation would no longer apply in the State he represented, he will in fact now serve the balance of the term of the person who was elected originally. So a party will have the same representation, in accordance with its entitlement, for the whole of the term of the senator being replaced. 
I believe this proposal has absolute merit. It is one for which I have striven and one which has been considered by Liberal Party committees over the last year. The Senate expressed itself when the Lewis appointment to fill a casual vacancy in New South Wales was made. Unanimously we said that the convention should be complied with. We in the Liberal Party have worked on and developed this constitutional amendment. Because of what it does for the people, because of the certainty it gives to government and because it is an essential and important amendment that will ensure that this Senate does not lose its significance and does not become unbalanced and outside the will of the people, I support it. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (4.0)- I rise to indicate my repudiation of this Bill. I will speak as quickly, as shortly and as succinctly as I can in order to explain the reasons that lead me to oppose the Bill. First of all, there is the title of the Bill, which is: 
A Bill for an Act to alter the Constitution so as to ensure so Tar as practicable that a Casual Vacancy in the Senate is rilled by a Person of the same Political Party as the  Senator chosen  by the People . . . 
In the debate on simultaneous elections we heard constant references to the Constitutional Convention. We were told how important it was that we accept the view of the Constitutional Convention and that any argument advanced against anything recommended by the Constitutional Convention would be invalid. The subject of this Bill has been before Committee D of the Constitutional Convention for a long time. Committee D examined it for as long and as penetratingly as it could. It came to the conclusion that the original Joint Committee on Constitutional Review on which  Senator Wright  sat was perfectly correct in saying that there was no possibility of getting a form of words which would meet this situation and put it beyond the risk of prejudice. 
It so reported to the Constitutional Convention. The Constitutional Convention discussed it briefly to see whether it was possible to put into the Constitution something which would enshrine the concept that it should be the function of those people responsible for filling casual vacancies to be obedient to the principle; but it confessed that it was totally beyond legal expression in any form. This was agreed to by all the Government representatives who were at that Constitutional Convention and on Committee D. In Committee D it had the support of that eminent legal luminary who now sits in the High Court and once sat in the Senate; it was not possible to find an appropriate form of words. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Is it a fact that capital grants to the Victorian Division of the National Trust from the Commonwealth Government have ceased, forcing the Trust to suspend its future capital expenditure program? Is it also true that the Federal Government has pledged to donate $100,000 to the highly admirable world-wide appeal for the restoration of the Acropolis in Athens? If this is true, and given the undeveloped state of action for preservation of Australia's heritage, how does the Minister explain this allocation of priorities? 
I rise with much pleasure to support the motion for the Address-in-Reply so ably moved by my new colleague,  Senator Austin  Lewis, and supported by  Senator Tehan  and other speakers. As I think I am the first Victorian Liberal senator to follow  Senator Lewis  tonight I say how very pleased I am, as we all are, that he has come into the Senate and brought with him to the service of the Senate his very obvious talents of which we have been aware for years. No doubt it is obvious to honourable senators that he will make many more of the same sorts of refreshing contributions to debates in the Senate. I am sure that he will add very much to the lustre of the Senate during his career in the following years. He has, of course, been attacked by the prophet of gloom,  Senator Walsh,  who has just resumed his seat. I take up that point first.  Senator Lewis  made the point that farmers have been suffering for a considerable time in recent years. They have had a great deal of anxiety and received poor incomes. Indeed, they wanted some assurance that they were, in fact, wanted by the community and that they and their children would have a future as farmers in the community. That appears to have been attacked in a most extraordinary way. It is not that  Senator Walsh  denies that. He just ignores it. He said that there were 40 000 more unemployed. I do not know from where he gets that figure. But it is like so many factors which he has brought forward tonight. They are obscure. They are exaggerated and they are expected. He said that all the unemployed are called dole bludgers and therefore, presumably, one should not do anything for the farmers. Of course, they are not all called dole bludgers. Nobody on this side or on the other side of the Senate deals with people in that sort of way. We know that there are such people and that there always have been. Perhaps there are more because of the great numbers which necessarily are now putting a great deal of pressure on the Commonwealth Employment Service. Naturally, there are people like that. But nobody tries to describe all people suffering from unemployment in that way, or even the majority or anything like the majority. 
But let us remember the way in which  Senator Walsh  came to this argument. He wanted to reply to  Senator Lewis's  statement- surely a true statement- that farmers and their families wanted an assurance that they have some future in this country and that that is one of the major things which this Government is setting out to do. It is obvious that that is something which does not suit  Senator Walsh.  Tonight we have heard from him the usual catalogue of complaints. We have heard him talking down the economy to the extent that he can do so. I do not think the economy will be very much talked down by  Senator Walsh,  but he tries. He endeavoured to forecast new devaluations soon. He also endeavoured to suggest that there will be further and growing unemployment. He obviously does not want to see the recovery which the great mass of people in the community wants to see. I shall deal with one particular aspect because he had what I think was something of an audacity to advert to  Dr Gregory  and to deal with his thesis as though the Australian Labor Party could claim it as its own. I remind the Senate that this matter was raised by  Mr Hurford  not so long ago. The article in the  Australian  of 12 February was referred to by  Senator Walsh. 
I know there have been attempts to slide away from this situation but I shall read what  Dr Gregory  said as it is set out in the article.  Mr Hurford,  the Labor Party shadow Treasurer, came to the conclusion that the Gregory thesis was one which would be accepted. He claimed that there was no need to rush into mining projects. The article states:   he said: 'I believe that one of the most significant new thoughts in the economic sphere is what we call the "Gregory Thesis," named after R. J. Gregory of ANU.' 
The article continues: 
It says that an over-quick development of our minerals industry would cause a tremendous malaise in our manufacturing industry and would be responsible for a continuing structural high level of unemployment. ' 
The discussion went on and we find that this article states: 

 Dr Gregory said: 'My paper should not be taken as argument that the pace of mining development should be slowed. That was not its purpose at all. 
-The article claims that  Dr Gregory  said these things.  His  words are in inverted commas.  His  words are quoted in the article as a statement by  Dr Gregory.  I have not seen this article denied. I read it as a quotation from  Dr Gregory.  The article continues: 
What I was concerned to show was that there is necessarily a relationship between the pace of mineral development and the success of the secondary industry sector and the agricultural sector. 
To put it simply and shortly, it is correct to say that my argument is that as minerals exports expand, the position of industry and agriculture will decline because the extra export income will be used to purchase new imports. 
As a consequence we must recognise that continued expansion of the minerals sector will necessitate adjustments in the other two sectors. And that is my real point- not that we should try to slow down the pace of minerals developments but that we should recognise the need for the adjustments. 
It would be wrong to use my paper as an argument against minerals development. I am saying that minerals expansion is going to force adjustments elsewhere but this is not necessarily a bad thing. They may be just the kind of adjustments you need in the Australian economy at this time. 
I would have thought that the Australian Labor Party had had enough of misusing  Dr Gregory's  thesis. I would have thought that the Labor Party would have had enough of using his statements of an academic nature, and of twisting them to try to find some solution to the economic problems which they have and which are not obviously solutions which will be necessary for the Australian economy. I do not think the Australian economy will gain anything by stopping mineral development in this country or its export. I believe that those things will be valuable to Australia in its future development. I do not think the Labor Party should lend itself to using ideas to try to discourage that development. 
I turn from  Senator Walsh  to say how valuable it is to all of us in the Parliament that the Queen has been in this country, has made a Speech and has again shown her great interest in this country. I think it stands for most Australians who believe that the monarchy represents a most important and permanent part of our community. The monarchy is one of the aspects which the community needs to ensure that there is solidity and a continuing factor in our way of life. I believe that though there are people who academically will argue- young people quite often will argue- in a republican way, any looking around the world will reveal the great value which the monarchy has for this and for other communities. I believe that such people will see that the alternatives which put political power in one pair of hands at the head of the community is undesirable and is not to be countenanced by this community. Therefore, I think we face the future with the desire that the monarchical system should continue in this  country.  I believe that the Queen represents and carries out this system with most magnificent assurance and with sincerity. I turn now to one or two of the matters which are referred to in the Queen's Speech and which I  think promise a great deal of interest for the people of Australia in this coming year. 
Debate interrupted. 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister whether it is correct, as reported in the  Australian Financial Review of  31 December 1976, that decision No. 1615 dated 7 October 1976 of the Legislation Committee stated: 
Parliamentary Counsel should give particular attention to leaving as much as possible to regulations rather than substantive legislation. 
Is it also correct, as reported, that in 1976 the Government gazetted around 300 regulations and ordinances which represented a substantial increase over those gazetted in 1975? If these statements are correct, do they not conflict with the Liberal Party platform in respect of Parliament which pledges the moderation of the dominance of the executive arm of government and maintains: 
Parliament should not be by-passed by the unchecked development of the practice of government by regulation or the exercise of ministerial discretions. 
Is it proposed to implement these platform commitments? 
When I spoke last night I dealt with some arguments, if they can be graciously called that, which were put forward by  Senator Walsh.  I then referred to the visit of  Her  Majesty the Queen to this Parliament. I desire now to turn to some aspects of  Her  Majesty's speech which show this Government as a reform government operating this year with a considerable attachment to the desire to achieve social and political reforms which are of considerable importance to the people. 
In the course of her Speech  Her  Majesty spoke of the necessity to protect individual liberties and human rights against unwarranted intrusions and made reference to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, the Commonwealth Ombudsman and pending legislation to come forward this year relating to the Human Rights Commission which is to be established and also to freedom of information. I wish to speak in general terms about those 2 pieces of legislation. They have not been seen by members of Parliament yet but we look forward to the bringing of these matters to public attention this year. 
I welcome very much the opportunity we will have to consider a Bill to establish a human rights commission. Over the past few years the Parliament has at times given some consideration to this matter. Under the Whitlam Government a Bill on human rights was introduced, but after a considerable amount of criticism that Bill left the notice paper at the time of the dissolution of the Parliament and was not restored to the notice paper and proceeded with by that Government. I think we ought to recognise that at that time there were a number of problems which were not met by the legislation which the then Government introduced. Under our international obligations we have a duty to proceed with human rights legislation and to ensure that actions which breach human rights in this country are brought to public notice, that there is a spotlight put on them and that what can be done is done to ensure that those problems are overcome and people do enjoy their rights. 
We in this part of the world, in a democracy which has been in existence now for nearly 1 50 years and with the experience we have gained, must set some examples. We must show other and newer countries that it is possible to maintain a democracy and to have full expression of human rights. Although at the time I was not in the Parliament I as a member of a legal committee did make a considerable study of the human rights Bills of 1973 and 1974. 1 know that there are problems for us in such legislation. There are problems because this Parliament operates as a legislative body over only certain aspects of life and the State parliaments have considerable powers in areas where human rights also may be affected. The Bill at that time endeavoured to sweep aside this distinction and to impose powers which were regarded by State parliaments as an infringement of their rights and responsibilities. It is obvious that the proposal now to be put forward is not designed to obliterate the distinction between the responsibilities of the Commonwealth and State parliaments. When this commission is established I hope that it will have considerable power and significance and be able to do a great deal to improve human rights in this country. I hope that we will get good legislation in relation to human rights and see the commission operating practically throughout Australia. 
The second piece of legislation announced by the Government is the proposed freedom of information Bill. This is a matter for which many of us in the Senate and in the other House have worked for many years because we believe it is essential that there be legislation which makes available, as of right, a mass of material which the Government has but which is often tucked away in the records of government and does not become available to the public so that there can be full and rational discussion of issues. There is no doubt that Australia and Great Britain are rather secretive so far as government is concerned. Professor Spann, one of the leading authorities on government, has pointed out that these governments are among the most secretive governments outside the Soviet bloc. I think this is changing. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has been committed for some considerable time to changing this. He has made announcements and a considerable number of speeches about it. Obviously, it is an area in which the Government has a great deal of concern. 
This matter was also raised during the time of the Whitlam Government. I asked many questions during its period of office about what was happening to a proposed Bill dealing with freedom of information. An interdepartmental committee met and made a report which many of us felt was disappointing because it did not go to the essence of the matter. It was rather constrained in protecting the information services of the Government and was not really based upon a principle that government material generally ought to be available to the public; rather, it faced the other way and said that it ought not be disclosed unless it was safe to do so. Consequently, we never saw that Bill tabled during the period of the Whitlam Government. I am glad to see that a Bill is now to come forward. 
It is terribly important that the Bill be one of substance and one in which there is established the principle of making information available to members of the public generally and of keeping the restrictions and exceptions as limited as possible. I think that in this proposed legislation, we will have to watch the exemptions which apply in the United States of America legislation. I trust that our Bill will be based substantially upon the United States experience. The operation of the legislation introduced in the United States some 10 years ago was not terribly successful at first because of the extent of the exceptions. Since 1 974 it has been amended. I believe that now it is operating quite effectively in making documents available to members of the public. 
A draft of such a Bill is to be found in the minority report of Commissioner Munro of the Royal Commission into Australian Government Administration. That Bill should be looked at very carefully also because I believe it contains a great deal of value as to the way in which legislation ought to be framed. 
I think we must watch the exceptions to such legislation. If Cabinet documents are excluded to some extent, as would be the case, it is very easy to say that if a document or associated papers are Cabinet documents they should not be disclosed to the public. Of course, that can mean that attachments such as reports, statements of fact and other documents which are of great value to the public will remain undisclosed. It is possible that so much documentation would be attached to Cabinet documents that really very little in essence which was of value would come forward. 1 think all the exceptions must be considered very carefully by this Parliament so that they do not become too restrictive. 
Another area of this legislation about which considerable concern must be expressed, is whether it will require departments of government to set down and to disclose their rules and procedures so that members of the public will know who is responsible for this and who is capable of doing that. This is an area likewise in which in the United States it was found very necessary to have provisions to enforce the disclosure of government rules and procedures so that members of the public could not be fobbed off and not be able to get to the actual material they wanted. 
Lastly, on this subject, I think that any proposed legislation should set out the method by which information will be disclosed- how members of the public will come to apply for it and, without too much difficulty be able to obtain information for a relatively small price. Therefore, in the practical operation of such a scheme applicants should not be turned aside and have problems put in their path. I think all these areas will be important. But the essential point at this moment is that such a Bill will be coming forward to be debated in the Parliament and by the public. It will be in this year a useful road in political reform. 
I turn to another matter referred to in  Her  Majesty's Speech, namely, the consultation of the people which is proposed this year. This will take place not only in regard to 4 referendum proposals but also, as I now see, in regard to a national song. On a lighter note one wonders how enthusiastic will be the campaign for the national song. When the poll is held and people in their accustomed way find themselves outside polling booths there may be no how-to-vote cards for the song handed out but will the records of the songs be played? Will we have a cacophony of sound coming to us with each band trying to persuade us of the value of its song? I hope not. I think it might disturb the other things we have to do on that day. I hope that there will be a  considerable interest in this  expression of opinion by the people as to which song they prefer. 
Of much more significance are the referendum proposals which are to be dealt with on that occasion. I was concerned to read this morning an article which my colleague  Senator Peter  Rae wrote in his regular column in the  Australian. I  think I must point out that it will be necessary for all of us when we go before the people before the 2 1 May, to endeavour not to distort. Rather must we put before the people positive arguments for or against proposals. It is easy to take things out of context or to distort. The people of Australia unfortunately have a long record of making many decisions on constitutional change in an atmosphere of confusion. 
I wish to refer to a couple of matters which I think are relevant to this question of consulting the people and a couple remarks which  Senator Rae  made in his article this morning. In that article he suggested that the primary or principal argument put forward for simultaneous elections was cost. That, of course, is nonsense. We know that there are many arguments, of which that is one, but it is one which must be taken in context. He stated in the article: 
At times I Tear that some of those members of the ALP and lately, and regrettably, some of the Liberal Party, who are advocating this referendum proposal will hit upon the brilliant idea of entirely eliminating the wasteful expense of holding elections at all! 
I suggest that that statement is of such extremity and nonsense that it is not really worthy of the argument which he desires to put. 
-Yes, I am saying that raises an argument. One can always take arguments for the reduction of elections to an absurdity. Nobody in this country or in this chamber has any idea that we would be better off without elections. 
I put it as an exaggeration of argument which is not worthy of him. I would not put it any higher than that. 
Perhaps the other part of the article which I think is worthy of a different comment is where he states: 
The instantaneous nature of the media enables people to make a day-to-day appreciation of the actions of their government. 
If a government fails to communicate to the people on a day-to-day basis and loses popular understanding and support then it deserves to be thrown out. 
I strongly challenge this 'instant coffee' idea of government- that governments must every day find themselves in happy agreement with the people. Operating over a period, governments must sometimes do things which are unpleasant. In Australia Federal and State governments constantly have to face elections and often find that they cannot do the long term or long range things they want to do. There is an inclination by governments to do things which are popular but governments should not always endeavour to be popular. Therefore I challenge the sort of argument put forward in the article, this instant idea that popularity must always be the aim of government. I believe that the governments which, in this instance, are putting forward ideas for the determination of the people, are looking at a more long range prospect of more important changes. I believe that this should be the way in which we approach these issues as they are put before the people this year. 
The other matters which I should like to refer to were raised in the Queen's Speech and in debate in the last day. One was the housing voucher scheme, which I think is one of the most interesting initiatives which the Government has put forward. If one listened last night to  Senator Grimes  unfortunately I think one heard that unintentionally he was confusing the people of Australia when he said that the scheme is an experiment which will provide $70m over the next 3 years for only 1500 families in 3 capital cities- Sydney, Melbourne and Hobart. He went on to say that the scheme cannot produce any increase in housing and he rather deprecated the scheme. He may not have intended it but he did give the impression that only 1500 families were affected, not 4560 in all. The scheme to assist 1500 people in 3 major capital cities is intended to be an experiment. 
I think it is important that governments more and more should adopt schemes that are experimental, that they should not find themselves committed to something that is a long range program, on full departmental scale, with officers who then perhaps have a vested interest in the continuity of the scheme. There should be more of an experimental approach by government, seeing how the schemes work, having them properly analysed and thereby monitoring them for the period of the experiment. I commend the Government for doing this with this scheme which will be monitored over a period. I do not agree with  Senator Grimes  that the scheme should be deprecated because it is only an experiment. 
The second thing with which I wish to deal is notan a ction of the Government but a decision of the Government which must come up in the near future. It is the decision in regard to the continuity or otherwise of the Australian Assistance Plan or some substitute for it. We all know that the experiment of the Australian Assistance Plan which was introduced by the Whitlam Government came to an end at the end of a 3 year period last year. It was carefully analysed and conferences throughout the country had a look at this scheme. The conference here in Canberra which I attended overwhelmingly expressed a great deal of pleasure in the success which that scheme had achieved. It was only partially completed but what it had done was to increase greatly the awareness of social development in localities throughout Australia that was needed in this community and it brought the ordinary members of the community into active operation with it. 
Of course, we are in a period when some continuity of funding for the scheme has been given by this Government to June of this year. But after that time, whether the States continue to operate the scheme or a scheme of a similar nature will be a matter of a great deal of importance. I feel that this time is terribly crucial because there are persons employed in various regional councils for social development and there are activities of voluntary organisations tied into the scheme. A lot of work is being done by these organisations at the moment to assist with employment for school leavers and these things need continuity. The various State social welfare ministers met in Sydney on Friday, 19 November 1976. They passed a number of resolutions at their conference which they sent to the Federal Government and which, of course, are known to other governments. At that conference they said that they regretted the announcement that all Federal funding of the Plan would cease from 30 June 1977. They indicated that they wanted to continue new schemes on their own bases. 
I know that in Victoria the proposal for a Victorian assistance plan has gone a long way. But the State Ministers felt that the Commonwealth Government must continue a financial responsibility for at least part of the funding of such a scheme. Because I think it would be of interest to honourable senators generally I should like to incorporate in the  Hansard  record the resolutions of that conference. I seek leave to do so. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENT(Senator Davidson)- I assume that the document is capable of being incorporated in  Hansard. 
-It is. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-I thank the Senate. I believe that the requests which so many State Ministers have made to the Government deserve a positive answer and I hope that the Government will shortly give such a positive answer so that all the advantages of this scheme will be gained by the country and will be continued and not fall into disuse. If a thing like this dies it is extremely difficult to restore, and the benefit of that enthusiasm and activity will be lost to this country. 
I believe that what is revealed in the Queen's Speech and in the Government's program is a steady progress towards economic recovery in this country. We all know that there are great problems in regard to unemployment. I, along with others in this chamber, am very concerned about youth unemployment. We see it as something which will be cured in the end but which in the short term can have terribly great social consequences. I hope that the initiatives the Government has taken in these areas will be continued and expanded. It is quite obvious that we must avoid a situation in which people who have left school and have had training which perhaps is not as good as is necessary do not have the opportunity to get jobs. We must ensure that they are not demoralised and that they become useful people working in society and making their own individual contributions to the skills of the people of Australia.  Senator Messner  spoke last night of the necessity of skills and of the necessity to promote people who have training and trade qualifications. Such qualifications are in very short supply in the community and that shortage will dog our tracks for many years if we do not give it particular attention now. I think that those things need urgent and early attention. 
The economic program which the Government has revealed and which it has followed is one for which I think it should be commended. I realise that people have different views on what should be done about this or that, but I am glad that the Government has not been panicked at any stage by campaigns waged for this particular tax cut or that particular scheme but has continued with its general program. I believe that if the business community is able to see the development of steady progress it will expand in the months ahead. The Government had put and is putting before the people a generally interesting and useful program for the attention of the Parliament this year, and I have very great pleasure in supporting the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. I refer to the agreement reached, without dissent, at the Fourth Session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, known as UNCTAD, held at Nairobi in May 1976. 1 ask the Minister: Did that agreement provide for an integrated program for primary commodities and the establishment of a common fund to assist the poorer and developing nations in a fairer system of international trade? Did the Australian Government, prior to the Conference, express its intention to participate fully in the deliberations and negotiations for the creation of a common fund? Has the Government made a determination whether it will now support the creation of this fund and so contribute to the stabilisation of prices and markets for the 18 primary products involved in the scheme, which primarily affect the economies of developing countries of a low per capita income, including a number of our Pacific neighbours? Will the Government be making a firm commitment in respect of the implementation of the UNCTAD agreement? 
I think that is one of the best speeches I have heard from  Senator Mcintosh.  It was delivered practically without notes and said with a great deal of feeling. In fact, the honourable senator did what we are supposed to be doing in this chamber, namely, debating, arguing and trying to persuade. He was not merely coming forward and reading not copious notes but the full speech. I defy practically anybody to make a good speech by just reading it. That is something which nobody can do. If  Senator Bonner  who is trying to interject will listen for a moment I would appreciate it. I was interested to learn that many honourable senators are taking fast reading courses. I think  Senator Bonner  is one of those honourable senators. I suspect that we will be in for a very nasty shock when we find honourable senators reading their fast reading speeches. I suppose we will have many more words in a minute but not much feeling and not much interplay between honourable senators. 
I am entirely against the idea of reading a speech. I think that would be a false pretence. It would be disillusioning for those who come to this chamber knowing that we could read our speeches. When we go out on the hustings why should we not speak to the people? 
I shall even speak to  Senator Bonner  if he will listen. The fact is that there is a distinction between this chamber and the House of Representatives. A couple of years ago I went over and listened to a number of debates in the House of Representatives. I do not make a practice of that but I did so on this occasion. The debate was on the Family Law Bill. We had a second reading debate on that Bill here. We debated against each other and argued the point. But I discovered that in the House of Representatives honourable members came in one after another, made a speech and went out. They did not reply to each other. They did not listen to each other. It was not a debate. It was a matter of a few soul-searching statements and that is all it was. 
I have another example of that. When the Family Law Bill was being debated in the other chamber I was driving my car in Melbourne. I heard one of the speakers who will be nameless and who was not on our side of politics, making a speech. I though it was very good material. I said to myself: 'I really like that. That is good. That is interesting', lt was the last page of my speech in the second reading debate, word for word. That is all it was. That is marvellous. We can copy someone's speech and use it over and over again. That is such an economy of ideas. But 1 liked the speech. I hope that we do not come to the situation where we try to exercise that type of socalled debate. 
It is not self praise. The speech was read better than I delivered it in the first place. But that does not matter. We should not have the situation where people can read their speeches. It is to the eternal disgrace of the House of Representatives that it does not have this standing order. May we have it for the rest of time. 
Will the Minister for Education inform the Senate on what basis theological students are denied eligibility for allowances under the tertiary education assistance scheme? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications inform the Senate why a list of postcodes is included in metropolitan telephone directories but not in country directories? In view of Australia Post's request that the public affix postcodes when addressing envelopes, does this lack not disadvantage our country population? 
-I present the tenth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Administrative Services. I draw his attention to the fact that the publication  Australian Government Directory,  which is a guide to Commonwealth Government departments and authorities, was compiled up to January 1 976. Does the Minister agree that this publication is now out of date? Will he inform the Senate when a new up to date directory will be available? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade aware that large numbers of inferior quality music cassettes made in Asia are being illegally imported into and sold in Australia to the public? Is the Minister also aware that the production and sale of these cassettes breach international copyright laws and that the current maximum penalty for importing cassettes into Australia is a $200 fine which at present is totally inadequate to prevent such imports? Does the Minister intend to take any action, such as stricter policing of these goods or substantially raising the maximum penalty, to correct this situation? 
I take the opportunity of speaking on the first reading of the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Amendment Bill 1977 to bring before the Parliament the situation of the administration of the Family Law Act. I wish to make some observations about it because I think it is important that this Parliament should continue to have an interest in the operation of that Act. As one who was a strong advocate of that Bill when it was put through the Parliament and as one who feels today that the Act is in every way an excellent piece of legislation, I think I can say that there are problems in regard to its administrationdelays, costs and other factors- that need to be examined by the Government and need to be solved if the legislation is to achieve the objectives which were sought by those who supported it. There are a number of things about which the Senate might be reminded. Honourable senators will remember that when the Bill was before the Senate it was investigated by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. The report which that Committee presented set out items which, of course, could not be included in the detailed legislation but which indicated the type of court that we had in mind. I shall read from paragraph 34 of the report of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee: 
The concept of a 'family court' is well established in the United States of America, Canada and Japan though there are variations in the proceedings and powers. It generally involves the creation of a special court (or division of a larger court), the assimilation of all family matters into one court, with active pre-divorce and post-divorce counselling not merely to assist reconciliation, but also to provide for the  reduciton  of bitterness and distress and in alleviating ongoing post-divorce problems. It is the concept of the 'helping court'. 
In fact, some of those things have been achieved, more in some places than in others. We do have a special court and we now have brought most of the relevant jurisdiction into that court. Of course, the High Court has found some deficiencies and therefore there is some difficulty, particularly in regard to property and custody where some of the powers cannot be exercised at the present time. In regard to the judiciary, the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs stated in its report: 
It is of the essence of our recommendation that the Judges appointed to this Court (men and women) should be chosen for their experience and understanding of family problems and should be drawn from existing Judges, members of the bar and solicitors, according to their particular suitability. They would need to recognise their responsibility in developing a new type of court, acting with a minimum of formality, co-ordinating the work of ancillary specialists attached to the court, encouraging conciliation and applying, only as a last resort, the judicial powers of the court. 
Those appointments have been made. Approximately 30 judges have been appointed to the court- men and women, barristers and solicitors. I think one can say that in nearly all cases the most admirable choices have been made in the appointments to that court. 
But still there are great difficulties and there are great disappointments when one looks at the delays which are developing in the courts; when one looks at the fact that the idea of reducing costs is not proceeding at the rate at which one would like; when one sees in relation to custody cases that come before the court the long process, the dozens of affidavits required, the litigious spirit, and the use of very expensive counsel in a way which I am afraid does not achieve the objective sought. Of particular concern at the present time- this has been recorded in a number of recently published articles- is the delay which is to be found particularly in Sydney and in Melbourne where I am more conversant with the problem. An article which appeared in the  Sun  of 23 March of this year dealt with the great delays, of the 800 cases which are waiting on the ordinary defended list in Melbourne. There is also a special list, an urgent list. None of the 800 cases has been dealt with for some considerable months. That article in the  Sun  was written by  Mr Ian  Kennedy who is  president  of the Family Law Association of Victoria. That Association has been formed only recently and family lawyers have been joining it at a very rapid rate. In his opinion at least 5 judges should be appointed. He goes on to say: 
Do you know that not one non urgent case has been heard since August last year, and there are nearly 700 cases on the defended list? 
That is a matter which concerned and caused some expressions of opinion by  Mr Justice  Emery the other day when he talked in the court of the back log of cases as being a tragedy. That sort of situation has also been referred to in the editorial of the  Age  newspaper of 23 March. That editorial commented: 
Clearly, something is amiss- and gravely so. It is not difficult to pinpoint where the trouble is. More Family Court judges and court staff are needed. The two extra judges who were added to the list at Christmas, bringing the number of Family Court judges in Victoria to nine, are obviously not enough. Further additions to the judicial ranks are needed, and needed urgently, if the high hopes held of the Family Law Act are to be realised. 
I do not think it is quite as simple as that and I do not think it is a matter only of more judges being needed. I can well see that with a referendum proposal which would change the nature of the  appointment of judges from a period of life to a set term there would naturally be some reaction and some desire not to appoint at this stage too many judges under the system which presently prevails. But at the same time there is clearly a need for more judges than we have at the present time. 
I would like to refer in a little more detail to something which I think would be of assistance to honourable senators. I refer to a statement prepared by  Mr Ian  Kennedy to whom I referred earlier and who is  president  of the advocates association in the Family Court in Melbourne. In his short statement he points out the difficulty of getting applications heard; he points out that there is not only a list of defended cases but also a supplementary list which has 132 cases on it, these being urgent cases requiring urgent attention and in relation to which orders as to their urgency have been made. The position was that that list was likewise not being cleared. I seek leave to incorporate that statement in  Hansard  because I think it will be useful to honourable senators in judging this problem. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator McAuliffe)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The statement read as follows- 

FAMILY COURT DELAYS 
The following figures were extracted from the records of the Family Court at Melbourne as at the 1st day of March, 1977. 
At present upon the filing of an application for dissolution of marriage, the first available date is the 8th day of August 1977. 
Upon the filing of an application for ancillary relief on the 1st day of March, the first available date in the pre-trial list is the 1st day of July 1977, unless an Order has been made to abridge all times in urgent cases and in that situation, the first return date can be the date of filing the application. Orders to abridge all times to enable a matter to be heard speedily in this manner are becoming increasingly difficult to obtain. 
At present there are 2 defended lists in the Family Court, one being a list entitled the "Defended List" in which there are now 700 cases. 
The other list referred to as the "Suplementary List" has 1 32 cases. In order for a matter to be placed into the Supplementary List an Order must have been made for a speedy hearing by a Judge at a pre-trial hearing and such Orders are particularly difficult to obtain, and it has been said that such Orders can now only be obtained where there is real risk of physical or emotional injury to a child. It is almost impossible to obtain an Order for speedy hearing in matters relating to money or property. 
In February 1977 there were three Judges engaged in hearing matters in the Supplementary List and 75 cases were fixed for hearing in that month. 31 were disposed of and the remaining 44 formed a Remnant List of which, 20 were listed for hearing in March and the remaining 24 comprised a further Remnant List for call over and hearing in April. 
In this situation it appears that no matter from the Supplementary List will be dealt with in either March or April. 
It is estimated that the matters which are listed in the Supplementary Defended List will be heard within 6 months of the first reference into that list. 
It is also estimated that as the rate of cases going into the ordinary Defended List each week averages 20, and the cases going into the Supplementary List each week averages 12, that in realistic terms no case from the ordinary Defended List will be heard in the forseeable future. 
A full call over of the entire Defended List took place in December before  Mr Justice  Emery and all matters then in the list which could be disposed of in half a day or had settled, were called out of that list and matters capable of being disposed of in half a day were given half day hearing dates and consent orders were made in the remaining settled matters. Consequently, the cases now in the ordinary Defended List are all on-going disputes capable of resolution only via the Court, and there is no possibility of any of those matters being dealt with probably in this year 1 977. 
On average, it appears that each Judge hearing a Defended List is capable of disposing of 20 cases a month, given that some matters settle, but the majority of cases in that list, are estimated to take 2 days of hearing when and if they finally come before the Court. 
The cases in the Supplementary List, because of the very urgency and the nature of the cases, are all difficult custody cases and virtually no settlements are effected from that list, and as a consequence the number of cases being heard on that list in any month averages 10 per Judge. 
Various estimates have been made as to the numberof additional Judges required by the Family Court and the most conservative estimate appears to be 5 additional Judges appointed immediately would enable the total Court to just keep abreast of the business being carried out on a daytoday basis in that Court, without in effect reducing the delays 
If these Judges are not appointed in the immediate future, the result must be that no case in the ordinary Defended List will ever be dealt with, as the Supplementary List obviously has priority, and bearing in mind that matters within the ordinary Defended List also include matters relating to property in excess of $1,000 and consequently, matters which cannot be heard in the Magistrates Court, parties in those matters have in fact been denied access to any Court whatever. 
It must also be understood that of the 9 Victorian Judges, at least 1 Judge a month spends at least 3 weeks on the Appeal Court and at least 1 Judge a month is on circuit. Victoria also provides a Judge for 2 weeks a month to go to Tasmania. Each Judge is entitled to 8 weeks annual leave and leave is staggered throughout the year. 
Prior to the commencment of the Family Law Act there were 48 Magistrates spending an average of 2 full days each week hearing family matters (maintenance, custody etc.): 2 county Court Judges in Melbourne each had a list of Maintenance Appeals and Marriage Act Summons per month, together with time spent on County Court Appeals on circuit, roughly 1/5 each circuit ( usually 4 circuits per month ). In the Supreme Court there were always 2 undefended divorce lists (one for marriages with children under 16 and the other without), at least 1 defended list (usually 2), a matrimonial miscellaneous causes list, a matrimonial Chamber Court together with 1 /3 of each of 2 circuits. 
In summary, the foregoing means that prior to the Family Law Act 17-18 courts were at any one time engaged in hearing matters now dealt with by the Family Court. Only minimal work is now being done in the Magistrates Courts and in any event that work is of an interlocutory nature. 
The Family Court Judges are now sitting from 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. daily and often longer, and if they adopted the Supreme Court hours, the lists would be immeasurably worse. 
-I thank the Senate. The situation then is not one that concerns just judges; it is a situation at which we must look to see whether the court is operating as well as one might expect. With that in mind I made some inquiries along those lines. On Friday last  Mr Philip  Ruddock, the member for Parramatta, and I spent the day at the Family Court at Parramatta. It is a relatively new court building. It was opened in August of last year, and it seems to be operating in a very different manner to that in which some of the other courts are operating. That might be because it has advantages in the facilities provided which are not available to a sufficient degree in the other courts. As I understand it, the Parramatta Court has 2 judges at present, with one more to come. It services the whole of the western half of Sydney and some of the surrounding country. Apart from its 2 judges, . it has something like 5 people who are qualified as conciliators and therefore as people who can give specialist attention to those people whose marriages are in trouble. Included among those people are welfare officers. People at that court are trained in psychology, in educational areas, and in social work. So, those people have a variety of qualifications. 
While we were at the court we saw the way in which cases and applications were dealt with speedily, the way in which they were sent out at an early stage, with the co-operation of the solicitors involved, for examination, discussion and report. We saw how matters which had been highly controversial were solved quite readily by getting to them at an early stage, not having to wait on the list for months and months before being sent out and being seen by the experts on the staff of the Court. They were solved by people going to the homes of the people involved to discuss questions of custody, to observe the home, to observe the living conditions of the children, and reporting to the court. It was done in such a way that there was not so much reliance on the evidence of long affidavits and in relation to disputes over the honesty or otherwise of the deponent of affidavits. It was a case of the court having specialist staff at its beck and call. There was one case of someone appearing on a custody matter that day without having any representation. Attached to the court is an office where legal aid can be given on the spot. During the day the competent officer who handles legal aid at the court was able to see the man concerned and, before the day was out, the matter was finalised, he having received sufficient advice and being then able to understand his rights. Orders were amicably made. 
I formed the impression that what was happening in the Parramatta Family Court constituted the type of helping court, the type of unit operation, which was in accordance with the ideas which the Senate Committee had when it started its inquiry. I feel that that does not operate in the courts where there is a great deal of delay. Some of that delay is due to the fact that the number of back up staff is inadequate in those courts. I think the Sydney court has attached to it about six counsellors or welfare officers, which is about the same number attached to the Parramatta Court, but I think the Sydney court has seven or eight judges. The same situation arises in Melbourne. Not enough of that type of staff is provided. That is one area in which there has to be a great deal of effort and further appointments of qualified people made. The availability of those people not only prevents the anguish which occurs unnecessarily by long delays but also, of course, saves the cost of litigation in which people are involved. It saves a great deal of expense. 
On the other hand, on many occasions I have received complaints about the way in which custody and access matters are handled in Melbourne. A number of people who are concerned about the matter, of course, have an axe to grind, perhaps because they are on the wrong side of some court order. Such people have expressed the view that they cannot really get justice. One of the problems is the lack of legal aid. I think that the matter of legal aid is one which particularly requires examination. I have had discussions on cases in which legal aid is granted to one party, the wife, and in which the husband is not entitled to it under the fairly strict terms in which legal aid is given or in which he has had no entitlement to it for some time. In some cases the legal aid authorities say: 'This is a matter of custody'. Custody is usually granted to the wife and the husband therefore will not be granted legal aid because it is thought that he has little chance of winning. This can lead to great injustice. One party can go ahead and take whatever steps she- it is usually the wife- wants to take or is advised to take by her solicitor and the husband, who has no legal aid, has to bow to the jurisdiction of the court and take what comes to him. 
I believe that the situation in regard to legal aid in these matters is not even at the moment and that it is not working out as well as it should do. Of course there is the problem that where legal aid is given to both parties there can be some inducement to the solicitors representing the parties to take all the elaborate steps that are needed. Therefore there are cases that are fought out at length. In Victoria in recent times there have been a number of occasions when custody cases have taken the time of the court for up to 1 1 days. Very often this happens not only where legal aid is involved but also where the parties have a wealthy relation who is prepared to fight the case at all costs. I am aware of cases in which tremendous expense has been incurred and where witnesses have been obtained from overseas. In these cases people seek to litigate a divorce case which is no longer based on fault. People endeavour to use the indiscretions of a party to a marriage out of all proportion in custody cases. This calls for the judges in these courts to intervene and take some steps to ensure that cases do not develop in that way. 
Before leaving the Family Court at Parramatta I obtained some statistics as to the cases which have been held there and the extent to which counselling and conferences have occurred. I understand that in its 9 months of operation there have been 183 examples of counselling and 246 of conferences. I have not had the opportunity of checking these figures. That court has more examples of counselling and conferences than all the other courts in Australia. The court at Parramatta is unique. The judges assure me that they will probably save 2000 defended cases a year if they continue with this type of early application. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a statement of the statistics of the Parramatta Court. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="072232197703234_61_2.jpg"></graphic>

Total number of orders received and seen by Section: October 1976 to 1 1 March 1977-559, i.e. in excess of 100 per month. 
Total number of interviews, same period- 909. 
Total number of cases referred at point of inquiry or for follow-up-288. 
These are significant factors. We ought to find out what the trouble is in other courts. My attention has been drawn to the fact that there is some difference of opinion between the judges of the Family Courts. The cases of one of the judges at Parramatta have often been successfully appealed against because of the short time he takes to deal with them. There appears to be a different view in the courts. In a case involving the marriage of Wood, 3 judges on appeal upset the decisions of that judge. I think it is significant to quote the editor's comment when this case was written up in the law reports. He said: 
Once again we have an illustration of a conflict of approach between Watson J and the Full Court. The concept of Watson J of the 'helping court' i.e. a court which actively intervenes on its own motion to protect the interests of the parties and their children, is not supported by the Full Court which, more cautiously, takes the traditional approach that the Family Court acts as an  arbitor  between disputing adversary parties. 
The former approach is clearly preferable in principle: even the Full Court in the passage cited concedes that the initiative cannot always be left to the parties. If the court under the existing provisions of the Act and Regulations lacks the power, consideration might be given to remedying that defect. But the 'interventionist' approach requires skilled and experienced personnel; there can be no room for individual hobby-horses and prejudices. It is doubtful whether the Family Court as yet possesses the necessary expertise. That day will come when it is acknowledged that even judges need training. In the meanwhile Watson J. will remain to the ahead of his time and suffer the usual consequences of being a prophet in the wilderness. 
I do not think that he is a prophet in the wilderness. Whatever might have happened in some appeals I believe he is pursuing the type of approach which was intended in the Family Court. This type of approach will overcome much of the clogging that has gone on in the courts in Sydney and Melbourne. If these courts are to cope with the work which is necessary they must adopt different methods. Therefore it is up to us to examine the methods of operation in the Parliament. We have a constant duty to see that money is not wasted unnecessarily and that people can proceed with their cases so that animosities do not grow deeper. 
I therefore felt it necessary to raise the matter at this stage. I know that it has been raised by a number of people in question in the Parliament. Of course there will need to be more judges. Today there are not nearly as many judges dealing with family matters as there were under the provisions of the old Act. We forget that magistrates and Supreme court judges dealt with these matters. Judges sitting in the supreme court in various jurisdictions dealt with practice matters. It is said that on any day 1 7 magistrates or judges in Victoria were handling family work. Now there are only 9 judges. Of course there will be a need for more judges but that alone must not be taken as the end of it all. There is also a need for specialists and trained people who can help to solve problems before they go too far. Likewise, there will need to be a recognition by the courts that this is the type of court that ought to operate. It is no good appointing people to a specialist operators in these courts and finding that they are not used. It is essential that the courts use these people. 
I have already said that legal aid must be considered carefully so that it is usefully used and not unfairly directed against some parties who are not entitled to it and over-used by others who have no restraint imposed on them against the wastage of public moneys. This way we will develop the idea of the court being a unit operation where people can work together. In the court in Parramatta- in the front of the buildingthere is even a service for looking after children. This effectively takes the worry from the mother or father. Children are minded and observed by useful and valuable people who can talk to the child if necessary. The person at the reception desk in that court is able to direct people. Hundreds of applications and inquiries do not come before the court because people are directed to other places where they can get attention. The courts are bright and are conducted in a most desirable way. There is informality and speed in getting to the point. Sometimes speed can lead to mistakes but, on the whole, it seems to me that this is the right way in which these courts should operate. 
Those of us in the Parliament who passed the Family Law Bill and who had an indea and, I hope, a vision of what it could involve must ensure that it does not become just another matrimonial course on the dreary pattern of the past. It must provide a new and proper scheme for dealing with matrimonial disharmony. I think that we in the Parliament must examine these things afresh. I believe that we have an excellent Act, excellent judges and excellent administration. I commend the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott)  for the interest he has shown in the  1 5  months in which he has been in office. I think he has had a very difficult time in view of the financial position being what it is but he has shown enormous interest in the area. Having seen this legislation, having closely observed it in operation, I commend him very warmly for what he has done but there are problems, serious problems, and there should be no delay in getting them solved. 
I regard this matter of a proposed select committee on East Timor which is before us tonight as one of considerable importance and one to which I think we have to give serious consideration. I do not come here to criticise the Government for any actions it might have taken. I do not come here to criticise any of my colleagues, some of whom have a different view on the subject. That is their judgment. My judgment is something I must answer for. I do not come here tonight to criticise the Australian Labor Party for its past record in regard to this matter. It is fairly acknowledged by  Senator Button  that that record is not as good as it might be. I do come here to urge that there is a necessity for an inquiry in relation to allegations which have been made over recent months and which, of course, have been made for some considerable period. 
I believe that for some 20 months there has been an interest in the Senate about the situation in East Timor. I think that is unique. It is to be found more in the Senate than in the House of Representatives. East Timor has been a matter of constant questioning in the Senate by honourable senators from both sides over that period. I think I can claim that I was the first person- I was then on the Opposition benches- to criticise rather severely the then Minister for Foreign Affairs in the Labor Government. I think that was back in August or September of 1975. I criticised him for failing to disclose facts which I believed should have been within the knowledge of the Australian Government. I have consistently asked questions and consistently sought that we should be better informed about the matters that concern East Timor. I believe that consistent with that attitude I can do no other than to say that an inquiry is now called for. I believe that we have some record of having a considerable interest in the problem. I think we should recognise that as far as the United States is concerned, it is perhaps catching up from a position somewhat behind ours. I do not think there has been the same sort of concentrated interested in this little speck north of us- an important part of an island as far as we are concerned- by the United States as it is probably of less importance to the United States. But I think the United States is now catching up and taking interest. 
I agree with those speakers who have said that as far as we are concerned East Timor is of prime importance to us. It is our nearest neighbour. Moreover, we owe an obligation of a wartime nature to the people. We know that on that island our people were sheltered and helped during the war by the indigenous population. We owe an obligation, apart from any self interest and apart from any mere neighbourhood interests because of the things which were done during the war. For their wishes we must only have some concern. 

 Senator Withers said in the statement which he made tonight that we should not interfere in the affairs of other nations. I point out that we, of course, do not recognise the taking over of East Timor into the Indonesian state. We have not recognised that act. Our policy, as I shall show, remains clear. As one who accepts the responsibility as a member of Amnesty International and as one who has a belief in human rights, I do not accept the proposition that we can ignore breaches of human rights and acts of genocide which are alleged to have taken place in Timor. Of course, this is the responsibility of every world citizen. I shall read the words which  President  Carter used recently and which are reported in the  Age  of 19 March. He made these propositions: 
No member of the United Nations can claim that mistreatment of its citizens is solely its own business, because ail signatories to the United Nations Chaner have pledged themselves to observe and respect basic human rights. Equally, no member can avoid its responsibilities to review and to speak when torture or unwarranted deprivation occurs in any part of the world. 
The article continues: 
He said America's 'historical birthright' justified its defence of human rights. 'Yours is a commitment, not just a political posture '. 
I suggest that those words are very sound and true, and ones to which I certainly subscribe. As I have said, we have the situation where this Government adopted a policy which I think was clear in relation to this matter. On page 568 of the  Hansard  of 4 March 1976 the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Peacock,  stated: 
The Government came to office some time after events had come to a head in Timor. Despite this, and despite the previous Government's inaction, we have taken a number of initiatives and put ourselves very firmly on record in terms of what we believe should happen in Timor. We have made it clear that we cannot condone the Indonesian resort to force and we have carefully avoided favouring any of the parties in Timor or endorsing their claims. 
In short, the Government believes that there should be a cessation of hostilities, thus putting an end to the bloodshed; a resumption of international humanitarian aid, preferably through the return to East Timor of the International Committee of the Red Cross Society; a withdrawal of Indonesian forces; and a genuine act of self determination. 
I mention those facts because that remains the policy today. I think it is only fair to point out what  Senator Withers  said yesterday in answer to a question. He stated: 
In essence, the Government has not recognised Indonesia's incorporation of East Timor but for quite practical reasons, such as the provision of humanitarian aid and the reuniting of families, the Government has to accept certain realities. 
The Minister went on to point out:   the Carter Administration had accepted the decision of the Ford Administration 'to go along with' the incorporation of East Timor into Indonesia. 
I regret that, but it is a fact. It is the difference between the 2 countries. I think it is important for us to realise that having a policy which is forthright and clear and which has not been revoked, we have a duty to know the facts, as far as we can, in relation to East Timor. 
There is another factor which I think compels me, and I hope others, to think that we have an obligation to take a stand in respect of this matter. I refer to the petition which has already been mentioned tonight which was signed by 95 members of this Parliament from both Houses and sent to  President  Carter only 3 weeks ago. In that petition we applauded him for the statements he had made. We drew attention to the mounting and disturbing evidence that innocent civilians in Timor have been detained without due process and killed as a result of the activities in Indonesia. The petition continued: 
Being particularly interested in the circumstances surrounding the deaths of Australians and the well being of the people involved in our region; and noting the resolutions of the United Nations and having observed reports that this situation has not changed; urge you to again use your good offices as a matter of urgency to seek assurances from the government of Indonesia: 
that it shall comply with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and 
allow the International Red Cross to resume humanitarian activities in East Timor. 
That is not the exact matter that is before the Senate tonight but Amnesty International which sponsored the petition took the humanitarian aspects of this matter as being matters that it could deal with and 95 members of Parliament felt that they should write to  President  Carter and urge him to intervene in the way suggested in the petition. Therefore it is not surprising if we do not take some action and some real interest in the facts that we will have the sort of criticism that was referred to by  Senator Button,  criticism by Americans wondering why they should take action when we do not. It is not the same action that we have asked for but it is very similar. Not only do I feel that in regard to the human rights aspect we in Australia need to show some leadership but also I feel that ours is a country which in the past has been noted for the fact that we have been concerned for the rights of others. It is not for us to stand back and to be isolationist in our attitude. 
I would like now to refer to some remarks which were made in respect of this matter in an article by  Mr Michael  Hodgman, a member of the House of Representatives, in the  Australian  of 21 February 1977 under the heading 'Timor Appeasement Must End'. In that article  Mr Hodgman  drew attention to the type of evidence and criticisms that had been brought forward about the behaviour of Indonesia in East Timor. He referred to the statement by the CatholicCommission for Justice and Peace headed by 
Bishop Mulkearns of Ballarat and its concern for the situation of 500 000 East Timorese in their own country. He went on to refer to later reports of which we know, one now being the subject of inquiry in the United States, and concluded: 
These reports cannot forever be swept under the carpet, and our penchant for non-involvement should not extend to abstaining from probing for the truth behind the allegations of massacres and the still unresolved mystery of the deaths of 5 Australian journalists in 197 5 . . . 
I commit myself to the course of action of seeking, and revealing the truth concerning East Timor. 
Finally he said: 
The dilemma of East Timor will not go away- it will not conveniently disappear. The ghosts of the dead will haunt each and every one of us who seek solace in silent acquiescence. 
I affirm those statements. I believe that they are true statements and that it is our duty to have that concern and to take that action. 
I am quoting  Mr Michael  Hodgman, a member from your State. I believe that his views are worthy of consideration here. It has been said tonight that if an inquiry were held there may not be sufficient evidence and that the evidence may not be available on our own shores. Of course, there may not be all the evidence we would like but there is one lot of evidence, the evidence of  Mr Jim  Dunn that has been referred to so much. I believe that he is a man of great integrity, a man who is making his own judgment and acting as an individual. He made the sort of inquiries which deserve the investigation of Australian authorities as well as American authorities. I want to refer to his report which is a horrifying account of the activities which have occurred. In it he does not say that the account of the activities is true, word for word, because he is reporting to the people of Australia the various things that were told to him by people in Portugal. Those people were not friendly to the Fretilin administration in Timor but were mostly the defeated people of the UDT. One would expect them to be not over-solicitous of the Fretilin government. On page 3 of his report, when dealing with the people to whom he spoke in Portugal, he said: 
I made it clear to those with whom I spoke that I had gone to Portugal privately and did not represent the Australian Government. I also sought to make it clear to those who gave information that I was not searching for evidence to build up a case against Indonesia. I repeatedly told the Timorese that Australia enjoyed good relations with Indonesia and that, although many of us were disturbed at what had happened in East Timor, we were equally concerned that Indonesian actions should not be misrepresented. In the case of those Timorese who produced information of a sensational or sensitive kind, 1 repeatedly asked that they should not exaggerate their accounts, reminding them that the prospect of their being permitted to go to Australia would not be enhanced in any way by the information they gave me. 
I suggest that the careful remarks of a man like that and the precautions which he took are evidence that the conclusions to which he came on the facts that he examined are conclusions that we should treat with considerable respect. There are many things that an investigation could do. I believe that there is sufficient power in Senate committees to make inquiries and evidence has been given today of the wide way in which Senate committees do examine facts. If there are people here who can give evidence then we will know the extent to which matters can be evaluated and proved. I give just one example. I heard tonight reference to the money that has been given to the Indonesian Red Cross. I have had on the notice paper for weeks a question in regard to this matter asking what has happened to the money, what do we know about where it was spent, has it got into the hands of the poeple or has it not. 
In  Mr Dunn's  report on page 4 there are suggestions that the refugees seem to have seen no aid being directed through the Indonesian Red Cross nor any evidence of aid ever reaching the refugees. It may be that some aid has come later or has gone to another place but we are concerned to know that the money which the Government and the people of Australia are giving is reaching the hands that it is desired to help, the indigenous people of East Timor. I believe therefore that there is value in an inquiry. It should be an inquiry concerned with Australia's interest and responsibility and not one ranging over the whole world; not one which is perhaps so concerned with the origins of the trouble in East Timor, as has been mentioned by other speakers. 
I do not think we are so concerned with how things came about as much as we are about the position of the people there and what we can do in relation to them and what we can do contructively to help the people of East Timor. I believe that the information which we have here should be given to an inquiry and constructively channelled through that inquiry so that there will not be the sort of sporadic campaign we have had in the newspapers of remarks which sometimes offend the Indonesian Government. It would be under the control of the Senate and the inquiry would be under the control of a member of the Senate and therefore would be of a constructive nature. On this point it is asked what can be done and I want to refer to a letter dated 17 March 1977 from the Australian Council for Overseas Aid and signed by  Mr Michael  P. Sullivan. In this letter, which he addressed to me, he urged that I support the appointment of a Senate select committee to inquire into this matter. He was concerned about the form of Australian aid to the residents of East Timor and the plight of refugees from East Timor. He gives in this letter examples of the attempts that have been made in the past to get aid to East Timor. 
-This letter is from the Australian Council for Overseas Aid and was signed by  Mr Michael  P. Sullivan, the Executive Director. 
Senior Wright-Where is he? 
-He is probably in Canberra because his address is in Canberra. I seek permission to incorporate this letter in  Hansard. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. I refer to the activities of the Australian delegates to the Common Fund Negotiating Conference which is currently being held in Geneva under the auspices of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, known as UNCTAD. I remind the Minister that I have an unanswered question on notice No. 398 asking the Government to make a firm commitment in respect of the implementation of the agreement from the 1976 Conference. I ask: Have the present negotiations, as reported, reached a crisis stage with the threat that a number of developing countries will walk out of the Conference? Has Australia refused to take any positive stand in the negotiations, thereby incurring the criticism of a number of our neighbouring countries, particularly the Philippines, Malaysia and Papua New Guinea? Does the Government intend to give our delegates further instructions to take a more positive attitude in the interests of achieving a more just trading position for the developing nations? 
I present the eleventh report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources or, alternatively, the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development aware that, as reported in the  Herald  of 71 March 1977, Australia recycles only a small fraction of used automotive and other lubricating oils and that most of the used oil is either dumped or burned, often with adverse environmental effects? Is it a fact that many countries overseas are now introducing legislation to enforce re-refining of these lubricating oils, which results in a substantial saving of oil and significant avoidance of pollution? In view of Australia's dependence upon imports of heavy lubricating oils, are any plans envisaged to encourage effective oil recycling? 
-by leave-I had intended to say a few words in respect of this statement. I am not speaking in response to  Senator Georges  but my comments will probably satisfy his desire for a response. I am a little concerned at some of the details of the statements which have been made. I am concerned that a legalistic or definitional type of approach may be adopted to the people who are to be admitted, whether they be Timorese refugees, evacuees or whatever expression is used. I think it will be unfortunate if the criteria are applied in some narrow way. I accept the proposition that we have special responsibilities in regard to the Timorese refugees and evacuees in Australia and Portugal. I hope that there will be quicker processing of the applications being made. I hope that the immigration criteria will not be confined merely to what may be described as the close family relationship criteria which we use in respect of so many other migrants to this country. I hope that these criteria will be interpreted in a wider fashion because of the responsibilities which people will have for elderly members of their family who may be more distant relations than a mother or a child. 
We should look at the whole matter very sympathetically. I believe that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr Mackellar)  is doing so. I hope we take in a substantial number of people from Portugal where my belief is that they are living in poor conditions. I have received letters and asked the Minister questions about this matter. I hope to receive answers to them. I hope that the Minister will not adopt the policy he has announced in a legalistic or limited way. 
I rise to support the Crimes (Foreign Incursions and Recruitment) Bill. I believe it is a Bill which we need and which we ought to introduce. It deals with a problem which has not been dealt with in any satisfactory way by legislation before. I shall refer to some of the matters that  Senator Button  mentioned. Firstly, I think we should appreciate that this Bill has some origins in reports produced in England on the Foreign Enlistments Act, which I think, has been in operation since 1870. This Act has been found to be quite ineffective. I think I am right in saying that there has not been a successful prosecution under it. 
I must apologise to the honourable senator, but I do not know what was in the minds of members of the British Government in 1 870. But certainly that Bill has not had a very effective operation. Consequently, a committee was appointed in Great Britain under the chairmanship of Lord Diplock. This Committee made a very interesting and satisfactory report which suggested that further legislation was required. I believe our Government has relied to a considerable extent on the operations and report of that Committee- I commend that report to the reading of honourable senators- in preparing the Bill which is now before us. Very much as a result of incursions or activities by mercenaries in Angola and other places the Committee was directed to inquire into and report upon the recruitment of mercenaries. It came to conclusions with which I think some members of the Labor Party in the other place would not agree, that is, that governments could not proscribe or censor the activities of citizens who chose, of their own free will, to become mercenaries in a particular place or to join an army somewhere. The Committee concluded that this was something which we could not control. 
Yes, as the honourable senator rightly says, the only requirement is that they are serving elsewhere. The word 'mercenary' has a ring of being unsatisfactory- that people are being paid to serve and are doing so only for money. I was including people who would be being paid for what they were doing but who perhaps were serving in a good cause, or those who choose voluntarily to serve. One might use as an example those who in 1973 went to defend Israel when it was under attack. These were people who had a warm attachment to Israel or had a Jewish background and consequently chose to do those things. It is impossible to place citizens under an obligation which prevents them from choosing, of their own free will, to serve in some force or to assist some other government. I do not think it is right that we should attempt to do so. This was, in fact, the burden of part of the report of Lord Diplock. Paragraph 6 of the report states: 
It is tempting to seek a definition of 'mercenary' which would differentiate between volunteers such as these and the professional free-lance fighter; but we do not think this is practicable in a definition intended to be used in legislation for the purpose of distinguishing persons whose recruitment or enlistment is to be subject to control from other persons. 
The report goes on to state in paragraph 7; 
So if enlistment as a mercenary or the recruitment of others for that purpose is to be controlled by legislation, any definition of mercenaries which required positive proof of motivation would, in our view, either be unworkable or so haphazard in its application as between comparable individuals as to be unacceptable. 
So the British Government certainly did not try to restrict or deny its people the right to serve as mercenaries or volunteers in other countries. 
-No, in this Bill we do not make that distinction. Paragraph 13 of the report relates to individual freedom in the public interest. The Committee discussed whether there would be a risk of the British Government having to repatriate its mercenaries or citizens who become involved in wars in other countries. It did not find that this provided a reason for the Government to prohibit that type of activity. Paragraph 1 3 of the report states: 
We do not think that the possibility that irrecoverable expense may be incurred in repatriation could justify prohibition of the enlistment of mercenaries. If this were a sufficient ground for preventing United Kingdom citizens from going abroad, anyone who was poor could be debarred from travelling. 
It is almost impossible to determine why people go abroad, what they are doing there and, of course, to prove their intention. Paragraph 1 5 of the same report states: 
To prevent an individual from carrying on any particular activity involves some restriction on his freedom particularly if it affects his livelihood, but the curtailment of freedom involved in the prohibition of what can at most be an intermittent activity of recruiting mercenaries in the United Kingdom is a minor one and does not require a high degree of danger to the public interest in order to justify it. 
In other words, a different situation exists when people are recruited inside their own country for certain purposes. Something can be done about that. The report goes on to state: 
On the other hand although, as will later appear, we do not think there are any means by which it would be practicable to prevent a United Kingdom citizen from volunteering while he is abroad to serve as a mercenary and from leaving the United Kingdom to do so, we should regard any attempt to impose such a prohibition upon him by law as involving a deprivation of his freedom to do as he will which would require to be justified by a much more compelling reason of public policy than the prohibition of active recruiting of mercenaries within the United Kingdom. 
It is in accordance with those general principles that this Bill makes a very considerable distinction between some vague and general prohibition of mercenaries and certain restrictions confined specifically to Australian citizens involved in incursions by going abroad and taking certain steps in another country which are detailed in the Bill. That on one side and the recruitment of persons for that purpose in Australia on the other are the prohibitions that this Bill seeks to impose. Perhaps one should look for a moment at clause 6 of the Bill to realise what is the nature of that prohibition. It states: 
A person shall not- 
a ) enter a foreign country with intent to engage in a hostile activity against the government of that country; or 
engage, in a foreign country, in a hostile activity against the government of that country. 
I know hat  Senator Button  and his colleagues in the House of Representatives took the view that it should not be just activities against a government, but it is very hard to see what the prohibition should be extended to if it went beyond that and included activity against the opposition in the country or some personal vendetta in the country or some activity of that sort. I think it would be very difficult to say where it would go. 
The Bill goes on to define a person who will be affected as an Australian citizen or a person, not being an Australian citizen, who ordinarily is resident in Australia, or a person who at any time during the period of one year immediately preceding the act was present in Australia for a purpose connected with that act. The Bill is not limited to Australian citizens but covers people who have been here within our jurisdiction, enjoying the hospitality of Australia, and go from here to engage in a hostile activity against another government. Sub-clause (3) of clause 6 defines the nature of hostile activity which we would see as being undesirable for people emanating from our shores. That sub-clause states in part: 
the overthrow by force or violence of the government of the foreign country; 
causing by force or violence the public in the foreign country to be in fear of suffering death or personal injury; 
causing the death of, or bodily injury to, a person who- 
is the head of state of the foreign country; or 
holds, or performs any of the duties of, a public office of the foreign country; or 
unlawfully destroying or damaging any real or personal property belonging to the government of the foreign country. 
Those are pretty serious activities, and if a person goes from our shores with that purpose in mindof course, it is something which has to be proved; it is not presumed to be the purpose- then it is proscribed by this Bill. 
I do not think it is a question of thought police. It has to be known; it has to be proved. It is a matter of law, and the ordinary obligations of proving beyond reasonable doubt apply to people who are proposing to do this. 
I suggest that in this period of very difficult international affairs, if we are to have our citizens proceeding abroad, as we know some have done in the past, to enter other countries and there to create havoc, the taking of the law into their own hands when we are trying to create some sort of international law throughout the world is not the satisfactory answer. It is not satisfactory for us, no matter how me might deplore absolutely the regime of General or Field Marshal Amin, or whatever he is called, that we should find ourselves actually allowing an incursion from this country against him. Those activities, and the hard cases particularly, prove that one should not encourage the sort of breakdown of international law which is involved in leaving this country to overthrow the government of another country. 
In regard to this Bill, one must say that it does not effect an invasion of liberties so far as the community is concerned. There is clearly no restriction on the discussion of international affairs or of attitudes towards people. The Bill is so phrased that it is incursions, firstly, that are prohibited. Clause 7 refers to doing acts preparatory to creating the offences under clause 6, and deals with accumulating, stockpiling or otherwise keeping arms, explosives, etc., for that purpose. Those are matters which must be shown to be the purpose. 
The Bill also goes on in detail to prohibit training or drilling for this purpose, or allowing oneself to be trained or drilled for the purpose, and at all stages it is necessary to prove the purpose of the person who is doing these things. The giving of money or goods for the purpose, the receiving of moneys for the purpose, and being an owner or occupier of premises for the purpose of helping in the commission of the offences are again restricted by the fact that the purpose must be known and nothing is presumed. Of course, the Bill prohibits the recruiting of persons in Australia for this purpose. They can go abroad if they want to and serve with other forces. That is their decision and they take the risk. But if in fact some person here is recruiting people for that purpose, our relations with governments which we recognise as being in existence and to which we have ambassadors, in most cases, are thereby endangered. We do endanger ourselves by being regarded as a country hostile to the existence of that government when some people come forward from this country or are recruited from this country or they advertise for recruitment, and the Bill will now prohibit that. 
There are 3 safeguards to which I draw the attention of the Senate. Clause 9(2) states: 
If the Minister has, by instrument signed by him and published in the  Gazette,  declared that it is in the interests of the defence or international relations of Australia to permit the recruitment in Australia, either generally or in particular circumstances, of persons to serve in or with a specified armed force . . . 
The sub-clause goes on in further detail. That provision, of course, requires the Minister to make a specific determination in those cases which may well arise where we believe that the defence of that country should permit recruitment. One would hope that that will not arise, but if there were such circumstances then the Bill does provide the power by a declaration and statement, which will be known, that it is the belief of the Government that the defence of the particular country is something that should permit recruitment. 
I think I am right when I say that an amendment will be moved to clause 10. An amendment is also proposed on behalf of the Government in regard to clause 9 to the effect that when such a declaration is made it should be laid on the table of the Parliament so that it is known and can be disallowed or dealt with by the Parliament if it does not agree. As I understand it, that was the arrangement which the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  made and indicated when he was concluding the debate in the House of Representatives. 
An additional safeguard included in the Bill is the one which states that proceedings under the Act shall not be instituted except with the consent in writing of the Attorney-General. The clause goes on to include a person authorised by the Attorney-General, but I believe that that will be subject to another amendment. In fact, there will have to be a specific decision by the Attorney-General before someone is prosecuted under this Bill, and there may be special circumstances which can be taken into account. If people appear to have disobeyed the provisions of this Bill but there are good reasons for that, then a prosecution need not go forward if it appears undesirable to the Attorney-General. 
In relation to the third protection, one finds quite heavy penalties proposed for the various offences under the Act. Overall, there are the powers which the courts before whom prosecutions come will have to determine what are the penalties. People often think that if the penalty provided is $ 10,000, that is it. Of course it is not. It is a maximum penalty. The penalty imposed may be much lower than that. In some circumstances it may even be a bond. It will be a matter where the courts can take into account specific circumstances, the accidental or unwitting nature of the activity of a person who does these things. Of course, in the case of those who do conspire, do recruit and do try to sally forth to upset and destroy governments and in the case of those who kill, no doubt the courts of this country will act strongly under this legislation. Those courts have that discretion and they can take into account the situation. I believe, therefore, that the Bill can be expected to operate fairly. I hope it will be a Bill which will not have to be used very much. I hope it will be a Bill which will be an intimidation to people against carrying on the activities which are proscribed in this Bill. In all these circumstances I believe it is a necessary and desirable piece of legislation for this Parliament to pass and I have warm support for it. 
-I think this Bill could well have a definition of government. In the words used by the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack),  it is either  de Jure  or  de facto  recognition of the control of a territory. If a government has that control it is recognised. I would have thought that that was the normal definition of government. So it is not essential that it should be in the Bill. I am sure there would be no  reason why it  should not be in. 
I rose mainly to say in reply to what  Senator Wright  said about changing this Bill that it incorporates the situation of Rhodesia and presumably, therefore, it somehow is suggested that the Bill should recognise the Rhodesian Government as a government, despite the fact that it is a government in revolt against the Crown. It is also a government in that it controls the territory. It is in fact a government controlled by a small minority and has power over the great mass of the people in that country, lt is a government repudiated by the international community, the United Nations and the rest of the world. The Australian Government recognises its international obligations not to recognise, not to trade and to observe boycotts and other obligations in regard to Rhodesia. To suggest that we should somehow change this Bill to cover the situation so that the current, so-called Government of Rhodesia, will be protected and so that nobody comes from this country, I suggest is a different proposition altogether. That proposal would probably run contrary to the policies which this and previous governments have had in regard to Rhodesia. 
It is true that there is a place for some legislation relating to the activities of people who try to get recruits for Rhodesia. But that is not the cause for which  Senator Wright  was calling for recognition. I think something better might be done in relation to people who endeavour to recruit and persuade Australians to go to the support of the present so-called government in Rhodesia. But as for changing this Bill now, I suggest that the Government is wise not to do that. If the Government wants to do something I suggest that it consider doing so in some other legislation. 
-I present the report of the outstanding references of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report. 
I present the following petition from 4 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the delays between the announcements of each quarterly movement in the consumer price index and their application as a percentage increase in age and invalid pensions is excessive, unnecessary, discriminatory and a cause of economic distress. 
That proposals to amend the consumer price index by eliminating particular items from the index could adversely affect the value of future increases in aged and invalid pensions and thus be a cause of additional economic hardship to pensioners. 
The foregoing facts impel your petitioners to ask the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to: 
Require each quarterly percentage increase in the consumer price index to be applied to age and invalid and similar pensions as from the pension pay day nearest following the date of announcement of the CP1 movement. 
Give an open assurance to all aged and invalid pensioners that any revision of the items comprising the consumer price index will in no way result in reductions in the value of any future entitlements to pensioners. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
1 ) That the following 4 matters be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs for inquiry and report to the Senate: 
a )  Processing Law Reform Proposals: 
To inquire into: 
Methods of ensuring that proposals for law reform by the (Australian) Law Reform Commission are implemented or are otherwise processed; 
The adequacy of existing machinery for the collection and assessment of proposals for law reform put forward by judges, commissions, committees and organisations or individuals: and 
The effectiveness of existing machinery for coordination of the work of the various law reform agencies in Australia. 
b)  Delegation of Parliamentary Authority: 
To review and consider the delegation by Acts of Parliament of administrative or discretionary authority whether by regulation, ministerial orders, instruments in writing or otherwise and how to preserve the power of Parliament to protect the rights and determine the obligations and remedies of individuals. 
c )  Priority of Crown Debts: 
Review the right of priority of the Crown over other debtors in matters of bankruptcy, corporate liquidations or other cases of impecunious persons or corporations. 
d )  Parliamentary Scrutiny of Rules of Court: 
Whether the rules of court of Commonwealth Courts should be made by judges by regulation or otherwise in what manner and whether such rules should be subjected to Parliamentary scrutiny. 
That the Committee report to the Senate on each matter as soon as possible but not later than the first sitting day in December 1977. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science. I refer to an article in the  Australian  of 5 April 1977 by  Mr Greg  Hartung which outlines Israel's advancements in artificial rain making and in cultivating its arid regions, often using brackish water and Australian native plants. Is it true, as claimed in the article, that Israel has improved its rainfall by 20 per cent through artificial rain making practices. As we are original world pioneers in rain making, what is the progress in Australia of the current artificial rain making research program? Further, what research is being conducted to investigate the cultivation of arid land, as Israel is doing, by using available brackish water and developing hardy, salt-resistant plants? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
1 ) What sum has been paid directly or indirectly by the Australian Government to the Indonesian Red Cross for the benefit of refugees and other persons in East Timor, or any other purposes? 
Has the Government any proof that any of this sum or any materials purchased with it, have been applied to the needs of refugees or to the needs of the indigenous people of East Timor; if so, what moneys and or materials; if not, will the Australian Government make urgent inquiries through its representative in Jakarta, or other responsible sources, to ascertain the uses made of such moneys? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 24 March 1977: 
1  )  Does the Department of National Resources and the Department of Overseas Trade maintain a floor price of $ 1 1 5 for export sale of Australian produced zircon. 
Are Australian producers, with the Department's knowledge, commonly selling zircon overseas at prices down to $75. 
In view of the fact that Australia produces over 75 per cent of the world's zircon and that the depressed prices are having a severely adverse effect on the Australian mineral sands industry, what steps will the Government take to maintain the floor price and prevent the fiercely competitive sales practices adopted by the Australian producers which cause Australia's natural resources to be sold cheaply overseas. 
I present the following petition from 25 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That those who have retired and those who are about to retire, are being severely and adversely affected by inflation and Australian economic circumstances. 
The continuance of the mean's test on pensions causes undue harship to them. We call on the Government to immediately abolish the mean's test to all aged pensions. 
To ensure a pension for all on retirement, and a guarantee that all Australian citizens will retire with dignity. Acknowledge that a pension is a 'right and not a charity'. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity. I refer to the report in the  Age  of 7 April 1977 which states that the Pritchard steam car project has run out of funds and that approaches made to the Government for support have yet to be resolved. Can the Minister give an assurance that a decision will shortly be made for federal support into research on the Pritchard steam car? 
-I present the report on the clauses of the Crimes (Foreign Incursions and Recruitment) Bill 1977 by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to move that the Senate take note of the report. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to the organisation known as the Clearing House on Migration 
Issues which is located at Richmond, Victoria and which provides a national service, utilised across Australia, in education, welfare, industrial, health and community relations programs. I ask: Was this organisation established by trust funds and the efforts of the Ecumenical Migration Centre? Has financial assistance been sought from the Commonwealth Government over a period of about 1  i  years for the continuance of this work? Are such negotiations still unfinalised? Is it a fact that a small interim grant was given by the Commonwealth Government for January-February 1977 and that it ran out 2 months ago? Did the Department undertake that a final decision would be made in February 1977? When will the Government make a formal decision in respect of continued assistance for this valuable organisation? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade the following question, upon notice, on 24 March 1977: 
1 ) Did the agreement reached, without dissent, at the Fourth Session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, known as UNCTAD, held at Nairobi in May 1976, provide for an integrated program for primary commodities and the establishment of a common fund to assist the poorer and developing nations in a fairer system of international trade. 
Did the Australian Government, prior to the Conference, express its intention to participate fully in the deliberations and negotiations for the creation of a common fund. 
Has the Government made a determination whether it will now support the creation of this fund and so contribute to the stabilisation of prices and markets for the 1 8 primary products involved in the scheme, which primarily affect the economies of developing countries of a low  per capita  income, including a number of our Pacific neighbours. 
Will the Government be making a firm commitment in respect of the implementation of the UNCTAD agreement. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to a report in the  Age  of 13 April 1977 which outlines details of the World Health Organisation's International Research and Training Program to assist undeveloped nations, especially in Africa. According to Professor  Sir Gustav  Nossal, the Director of the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute, and an instigator of the program, Australia is yet to contribute to the program. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether Australia is going to contribute to this worthwhile training program? If so, can he indicate the likely contribution? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity. I refer to a report in the  Age  of 7 April 1977 which states that the Pritchard steam car project has run out of funds and that approaches made to the Government for support have yet to be resolved. Can the Minister give an assurance that a decision will shortly be made in respect to Federal Government support into research on the Pritchard steam car? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 1 9 April 1 977: 
Has the Cheynes Beach Whaling Station at Albany, Western Australia, been granted a licence for 1977. If so, under what conditions has the licence been granted. 
Can the Government give an assurance that Australian representatives on the International Whaling Commission will continue to press for a total ban on all whaling. 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Attorney-General been drawn to the repeated assertion by  Senator Rae,  on behalf of the referendum No campaigners, that the simultaneous election proposal makes no provision for simultaneous elections? Did the Minister not, in debate on the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill in February, clearly dispose of this misleading and pettifogging assertion? In view of the danger of the people being deceived by repetitive assertions of this nature, will the Minister reassure the public that they will achieve simultaneous elections, with all their attendant benefits, by voting for this proposal? 
-I present the twelfth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister whether he is aware that at a public meeting of 500 people at Coppin Hall, Melbourne, last week, addressed by the Russian' dissident, Viktor Reinberg, and Oxford Lecturer in Psychiatry,  Dr Sidney  Block, the following resolution was passed unanimously: 
That this meeting is aware of the distressing and heartrending misuse of the great profession of psychiatry for political purposes and deplores this. We ask the officials of the Soviet Union to take note of world feeling on this matter and to cease this abuse. We plead for the immediate release of noted psychiatrist, Dr Semyon Gluzman 
Recognising the valuable international stand taken by the Australian Government last year on the use of torture, for which Australia has been thanked by Amnesty International, I ask: Will the Government take an early opportunity to express its views on the misuse of psychiatry, a matter of grave concern to so many Australians? 
I present the following petition from 69 citizens of Australia: 
To the Right Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
Whereas there is mounting evidence that some 60 000, perhaps as many as 100 000, East Timorese may have been lulled since the invasion of East Timor by Indonesian forces; and 
Whereas a resolution of the General Assembly of the United Nations on 12 December 1973, stated that it strongly deplored the military intervention of the armed forces of Indonesia in Portuguese Timor' and 'calls upon the Government of Indonesia to desist from further violation of the territorial integrity of Portuguese Timor and to withdraw without delay its armed forces from the Territory in order to enable the people of the Territory freely to exercise their right to self-determination and independence '; and 
Whereas Australia's Minister  for  Foreign Affairs,  Mr Andrew  Peacock, in a statement to the House of Representatives on 4 March 1976, described Australia's policy on East Timor as 'clear' and calling for 'the withdrawal of Indonesian troops', 'a cessation of hostilities', 'the implementation of an act of self-determination and a resumption of humanitarian aid through the International Committee of the Red Cross '; 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should: 
Ensure that the Australian Government re-state this policy on East Timor publicly and unequivocally and 
pursue the implementation of the said policy as strongly as possible. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer to the report in the  Age  of 17 May 1977 which outlines the campaign being mounted by the Angilican Church against exploitation in the funeral industry. Is the Minister aware that an interim report alleged many instances of overcharging and dishonest practices used by funeral directors on the bereaved and usually vulnerable next of kin? Can the Minister indicate what action the Federal Government can and will take to ensure a fair and respectable deal to the public from the funeral directors? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the report of Amnesty International published on 16 May 1977 which expressed deep concern at the treatment of political opponents of the Government of Pakistan. Is the Government aware that according to the report the Pakistan Government has detained several thousand political prisoners, most of them without trial, and that allegations of beatings and police intimidation are reported? Will the Australian Government consider making a request to Pakistan to release these detainees and abide by the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Minister agree with claims made in a letter to the  Age  of 27 March 1977 relating to the processing of returns of the 1976 Census signed by 17 of Australia's experienced academics and social service experts that the proposed delays in processing census materials and elimination of the topics from analysis, in whole or in pan, will (a) save a mere $2m after $7m has already been spent; (b) seriously hamper the work of the Bureau of Census and Statistics in providing materials for effective planning on economics, housing, health, education, welfare, transport and other urban services; and (c) increase the likelihood of error in the allocation of future resources in these areas. 
Will the Government reconsider this decision. 
asked the following question, without notice, on 3 1 March 1977: 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources or, alternatively, the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development aware that, as reported in the  Herald  of 2 1 March 1977, Australia recycles only a small fraction of used automotive and other lubricating oils and that most of the used oil is either dumped or burned, often with adverse environmental effects? Is it a fact that many countries overseas are now introducing legislation to enforce re-refining of these lubricating oils, which results in a substantial saving of oil and significant avoidance of pollution? In view of Australia's dependence upon imports of heavy lubricating oils, are any plans envisaged to encourage effective oil recycling? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Health indicate the progress being made by the federal health committee, which was reported in  The Australian  of 3 March 1977 to be considering action to be taken to phase out the use of fluorocarbon propellants in spray cans to protect the earth 's ozone layer and hence the world 's health? In particular, can the Minister inform the Senate when the committee is likely to report recommendations for the elimination of fluorocarbon propellants? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to the report in the  Age  of 23 May 1977, which describes the success of the Community Youth Support Scheme but which details a hold up in approval and funding by the Department of 20 more proposals. Can the Minister indicate when these proposals are likely to be approved and funded? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, without notice, on 1 5 February 1977: 
Is it a fact that the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1966, that it came into operation with the required ratifications in 1976, that it has been ratified by 38 nations and that it has been signed but not ratified by Australia? Is there any substantial reason why the covenant should not now be ratified by Australia and brought into effect in this country? Has the Government any early plans to ratify the covenant? Does the Minister not agree that ratification by Australia would contribute to the international struggle against the widening world threats to basic human rights and personal liberties and against the growing use of torture throughout the world? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development aware that forestry interests are continuing to extend roads into the Picton Valley region of south west Tasmania within the proposed boundaries of the inquiry being undertaken by the South- West Advisory Committee? Is the Minister also aware that the option that south west Tasmania should remain a significant wilderness area, with Federation Peak as the centre point, is seriously jeopardised by the continued building of this road? Is the Minister able to take any action to achieve the suspension of the building of this road, at least until the Advisory Committee has reported, in order to preserve south west Tasmania as the significant wilderness area that it currently is? 
I want to correct one thing said by way of interjection to the Minister a few moments ago. It relates to a question which I asked a few days ago about 20 schemes which, according to a newspaper article, are awaiting funding. I said by way of interjection that all of them were in Victoria. I do not think that is right. The matter goes further than that. I want to correct that statement because I think that 20 new schemes are proposed. I hope money will be made available quickly for these schemes because they are the result of voluntary efforts by other people. The fact that they may not start does not mean that action cannot be taken. We will not be able to spend money before the beginning of the next financial year. I hope they will be got under way quickly because they are the result of excellent voluntary efforts by organisations. 
I should like to say something on this matter. Although I do not agree with some of the remarks that have been made, certainly I agree with the latter remarks that  Senator Rae  has made. It is important that the point is raised. It is important that it be taken into account when re-engaging people as consultants. I do disagree with some of the things that have been said today about this. In the first place I deal with what  Senator Georges  has said. He apparently would consider it suitable if someone retired early and was re-engaged in private enterprise, that it could use the services of such a person. Of course, that person might be earning more than he was before he retired, having retired as he was entitled to do, and receiving the income in retirement that he is entitled to receive. Apparently that is all right for private enterprise but it is no good for a government. 
In my opinion, that is not a sound argument. In fact, if a government desires to re-engage as consultants people who have retired, as they are entitled to do, then it ought to do so. I cite the example to which the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  referred today. The examination which a committee of this Parliament carried out in regard to national compensation benefitted greatly from the services of someone who was engaged as a consultant. As has been pointed out, consultants are appointed at fees which very often are much less than would have been paid to someone who went to the Bar and received high fees to which senior counsel are entitled. 
We could also take the example of retired judges. Both here and in the States they are reengaged to carry out inquiries and other work or to take such employment as with the Press Council. I have examples in mind. There is no reason why their services should not be used. There is no reason why if the result of that is that their incomes are higher in that period of retirement than it was before they retired, this should be regarded as in any way undesirable. They are entitled to their payment by way of superannuation. If they choose to earn more and to continue to work, they are entitled to do that. Whilst I am in disagreement with the Estimates Committee on this matter, I am not saying that other points raised by the Committee are not of considerable substance. I believe that so far as this matter is concerned we have had the argument. We have decided that people can retire from the Public Service between the ages of 60 and 65 years. That has been long since decided. In recent years we have debated the terms under which they can retire. I believe that where senior public servants are able to come back and act in consultancy positions, part time or full time, and earn additional fees, the most that can be saidand this is what the Committee does say- is that there may be the possibilities of abuse, but I do not believe they are high. I believe that if in fact the Public Service Board and the Government are concerned and are aware of this fact, the probabilities are not great at all. They are just possibilities of some abuse because somebody does this work just to earn extra money. 
Taking in view the type of people who are likely to come back to the Service as consultants, I think abuse is unlikely. I think there is every reason the Commonwealth Government should be able to gain the benefit of the knowledge of these public servants who have retired and should have them working in the same area as they worked in before they retired. Why should they just come back to work in some other area in which they are not specialists and in which they are of not much advantage to the Government? For this reason I do not agree with the basic point which the Committee makes on this aspect. I believe there is no more than a mere possibility of abuse. At the same time I think it is desirable that the matter should be well in the Government's mind and the Board's mind so that the possibility does not ever become a probability. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to a question asked by me last week in respect of the continued funding of new projects under the Community Youth Support scheme. Has the Minister any further information about the scheme and its future funding? 
-I seek leave to move a motion to permit the Publications Committee to move from place to place. 
I would like to add a different point here. There is a constant complaint about the extent of moneys that are made available to the Victorian Government, particularly for rural roads and for the hundreds of culverts, drains and dangerous situations that are to be found in the Country Roads Board roads. I was surprised tonight to hear  Senator Chaney  indicate the great difficulties suffered by Western Australia. I appreciate the point that  Senator Steele  Hall made but I think that there is a further point to be considered. I remember reading recently of grants and the general reimbursement of tax per head of population. I wonder whether the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  can supply this information. As I recall it, the figures were something like $1 10 a head in Victoria, $120 a head in New South Wales, something like $250 in Queensland and $350 in Western Australia. I would be happy to be corrected if I am wrong. 
There is such a general difference in the amounts paid overall, not only in road moneys but also in general revenue, and I have heard alleged tonight that Victoria was being supported by Western Australia and others. One gets a little tired of hearing that statement being made. It shows a certain ungenerous nature on the part of those States in view of the great percentage of moneys that goes to them in the Commonwealth's general reimbursement. I wonder also whether the Minister, in answering  Senator Steele  Hall, could tell me whether or not this is so, so that we can put into perspective the financial position of the States involved and perhaps then understand why States like New South Wales and Victoria have so much trouble when providing for their roads programs. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move:  That: 
The following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs: 
Advisory Opinions by the High Court- whether the Constitution should be amended to enable the High Court to give advisory opinions on important questions of law or fact arising out of legislation or other matters; 
The Committee report to the Senate as soon as possible but not later than the last sitting day in September 1 977. 
I desire to say something about this legislation. I recognise that the Opposition is taking a constructive approach to this legislation. I think that what the legislation does has been fairly summarised by  Senator Button.  I do think though that these Bills are of such importance and of such value in providing a further instalment of administrative reform in this country that they do deserve the attention of the Parliament and the electorate generally. We have proceeded- it has not been a one-sided affair- since the Kerr Committee made its report in 1971 with a number of reforms of the law. We have established the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, the Administrative Review Council and have appointed a Commonwealth Ombudsman. These two pieces of legislation today help to bring us out of the jungle of administrative law and help to put a little more civilisation into that area. It provides for people who have an administrative decision and want to appeal against it. They have some idea of where to go and what they should do. lt puts some simplicity into the law that is applicable to the situation. That simplicity, of course, involves less cost and less trouble for the person who wants to appeal. 
Both Bills are important. I should like to say a few words firstly about the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Amendment Bill 1977. 1 point out that the fact that only 24 appeals have been made under this legislation is, I think, most regrettable.  Senator Button,  when he said that so few appeals had been made, concluded that perhaps not enough publicity had been given to the legislation itself. I do not think that that is the reason. I remind the Senate how the legislation was dealt with in 1975. We, then in Opposition, saw the Bill that created the Tribunal. We noted that it had no jurisdiction initially. It was by way of amendment and by way of discussion with the Government that we ultimately obtained the Schedule to the Act which sets out a number of areas in which appeals do lie to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. We felt at the time that they were, unfortunately, most inadequate. 
Many other areas of appeal had been recommended by the Kerr Committee report. Only some of those areas were taken up at the time and a few extra areas of appeal have been added since then. I hope that the Government will continue to extend the jurisdiction that is available to the Tribunal so that in fact it will deal with more substantial matters. 
I too welcome the fact that the Social Services Act is apparently to come under its jurisdiction, whether in whole or in part, because I believe it is important that there should be excellent service given in the case of appeals by people in the area of social services which I do not think is as good at the moment as it should be. The Bill enables, in a flexible way, different types of tribunals to be constituted. For example, tribunals will now be constituted in some cases by a presidential and 2 non-presidential members; in other cases by a presidential member sitting alone, who in general is a legally qualified person; thirdly, by a senior non-presidential member- a new class of member- and 2 other non-presidential members; or by a senior non-presidential member sitting alone. In other words, there is to be quite a gradation of persons with skills and experience appointed- from, a judge down to others who will have other qualifications but not necessarily of a nature covered by judicial or legal experience. I have some reservations in regard to this if in fact a good deal of use is to be made of nonlegal chairmen sitting on this Tribunal. I remind the Senate that when the Kerr Committee reported in August 1971 it consisted of  Mr Justice  Kerr, as he then was,  Mr Justice  Mason,  Mr Ellicott,  the present Attorney-General, and Professor Whitmore. It was a highly qualified committee. In chapter 16, paragraph 320, of its report it said this about chairmen of tribunals: 
We are of opinion that, wherever possible, the chairmen of tribunals should be legally qualified. This is already the case with many tribunals but it is not, by any means, a uniform requirement. Experience overseas has shown, we would argue, that legally qualified chairmen conduct proceedings more effectively and fairly than those drawn from other fields. There are, of course, exceptions, but the general rule is correct- especially when parties before the tribunal are unrepresented. 
Perhaps I have a prejudice in regard to this. I do not think that what is being done is inconsistent with that recommendation but I hope that chairmanship of these tribunals by non-presidential members will not be preferred. I hope that wherever possible people with legal qualifications will chair the tribunals. I think it is necessary to have the 4 gradations of membership so that the tribunals can deal with a lot of areas in which there are matters of fact to be determined, such as matters of a specialised nature which can be dealt with by chairmen who are not lawyers. I think it is therefore a desirable and flexible enough reform. 
As  Senator Button  has pointed out, the ability to take over jurisdiction from existing appeals tribunals and to bring these within the scope of the Tribunal is a useful one and no doubt this will increase the number of appeals that can be dealt with by this body. I note also there are more elaborate provisions in respect of the ability of the Attorney-General to give a certificate in respect of matters which he regards as undesirable to disclose and that freedom from disclosure is something which is allowed to be put to the Tribunal where it would prejudice security, defence or international relations or would disclose proceedings in cabinet. In this case the AttorneyGeneral's certificate can be challenged before the Tribunal and may, if the Tribunal so rules, be set aside. I think it is desirable that the Tribunal have this power. Under the additional powers it is the  President  of the Tribunal who will determine the setting aside of the certificate. Secondly, it is made clear that where a certificate is set aside this may be done on terms that only some of the parties may have access to the document or information concerned. This allows staff of the Tribunal also to see the document. These things were pointed out in the Minister's speech. I think it is desirable that we have these qualifications set out so that it will be more likely that the Tribunal will act sensibly in regard to such certificates from the Attorney-General. I therefore think that this Bill constitutes a very important part of the Government's reform program. 
The Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Bill is likewise highly desirable. It will simplify the proceedings of the Federal Court of Australia in considering a judicial review. Somebody can appeal against a decision of the Tribunal. Whereas at the present time there are the very ancient remedies, the very ancient writs that can be used to take such action, they are not satisfactory. They have been found over the years to be unsatisfactory. This is indeed an area which needs this alternative and the simple remedy which is now provided in this Bill. If something is lawful or unlawful this will be determined on the review. The powers on review given to the Federal Court are quite considerable. This is very important in this legislation. The difficulty which exists under the existing powers of review is that a person may not be able to find out the facts or may not be given any reasons by the tribunal that makes the decision, or the tribunal may not set out the findings of fact so that people can seek proper legal advice to determine whether they have grounds for an appeal or to seek a prerogative writ. Under this Bill those reasons must be given and findings of fact must be given. I think this will be fair to the litigant or to the person who is aggrieved by a decision. I think this does constitute a more comprehensive procedure, as the Minister has indicated in his second reading speech. Therefore I believe this is a very important part of the legislation. 
It was forecast in the Minister's speech- and  Senator Button  referred to this-that further legislation will be coming forward to create standard procedures for Commonwealth adjudicative tribunals. This is desirable too. It is very important that people understand the procedures. It is important that there be a standard, and not the present rather jungle-like different methods which chairmen might use in conducting proceedings. Likewise, I think that the freedom of information legislation which is soon to come before the Parliament will make this legislation much more valuable. It will tie in with this legislation. It will enable people to get the facts. It will help them in proceeding with appeals against decisions made by tribunals. I very much welcome this present legislation. It accords with what has been recommended in the past by committees. It represents an important step forward by the Government and by the Opposition which is giving its support. I believe it will do something useful for this community and for any ordinary member of the public who finds himself enmeshed in the bureaucracy and unable to find his way. I therefore believe that the Bills deserve every support from this Parliament. 
-I direct my question to  Senator Durack,  the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Minister a w.i iv that, in regard to the tremendous marine rest hi rees in the waters surrounding Australia, Australian owned fisheries harvest only a small proportion of this food compared with other major fishing nations such as Japan and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics? When will Australia unilaterally declare a 200-mile sovereignty limit as recently declared by so many other seaboard States in the world? What action will be taken to protect this sovereignty? Will the Government act to encourage the Australian owned fishing industry in this area? 
I bring up the thirteenth report of the Publications Committee. I seek leave to move a motion for the adoption of the report. 
-Is the Minister for Social Security aware that according to the Australian Federation of Child Care Associations there are now many vacancies in privately operated child care centres in Australia and that these vacancies are threatening the viability of such centres? Is it true, as alleged, that the major reason for the increased number of vacancies is the Government continuing to build child care centres in areas already serviced by privately operated child care centres? Is it also true that the areas in most need of upgraded child care facilities, such as the western suburbs of Sydney and Melbourne, have been inadequately covered in the Government's building program? 
I want to say in regard to the 2 questions that have been raised that I as Chairman will be tabling a report today of the Publications Committee. I will be commenting on the lack of copies of reports and I will be tabling statistics as to the considerable number of occasions on which this has happened over a considerable period of time. A considerable number of cases are involved. It is a matter which is of concern to the Joint Committee on Publications. The Committee is concerned also about the delays of annual reports which, on a number of occasions, have been late. It will be reporting on the effect of that. Annual reports are the subject of investigation and report by the Committee at the moment. I just want to say that this issue is a matter which I will be bringing before the Senate and about which I will be tabling a report in a few minutes. 
-Might I say a few words in reply to the comments made by honourable senators. A number of useful suggestions have been put forward. They should not be left in abeyance at this stage and not proceeded with further. In regard to what  Senator Douglas  McClelland said, at present an inquiry is being conducted by the Joint Committee on Publications into the whole situation of annual reports. However, it is not the matter we will be reporting on next. We will be reporting soon on the inquiry into parliamentary papers. Of course the parliamentary papers are made available later than the departmental papers and they are not the ones that are of greatest value to us. It is the original departmental supply with which we are concerned and to which my comments have been directed this morning. A report will be presented shortly on the parliamentary papers situation. Of course the matter is linked with the fact that if there are inadequate copies of documents tabled in the Parliament we have to wait a long time for the parliamentary paper version to come out. If additional copies could be available to the Senate at an early stage, we would not be so dependent upon the later documents that might be 6 months in coming forward. I thank  Senator Douglas  McClelland for the comments he made. 
I thank  Senator Wright  for the suggestion he made in regard to having a list of reports and other documents tabled. I will bring it to the attention of the Joint Committee on Publications immediately so it can consider it in its current inquiries. What has been said by  Senator McLaren  is a fact. The limited number of copies does inhibit proper and early debate on reports and documents in the Senate. Obviously it is not right that honourable senators should have to depend on borrowing a copy from the Senate Records Office for a short time, stopping someone else from being able to get a copy. It is important that we monitor all documents, including those incorporated in  Hansard,  so that honourable senators may see the extent to which there has been default over the last year. I hope that we will continue to keep the matter under observation and make sure that it is corrected. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I refer to one of the matters which  Senator Wright  raised. The marginal note is exactly the same as that which appears in the present Act. The only part of this section 29 being amended is sub-section ( 1 ). Sub-section (2) remains as it appears in the original Act. Sub-section (3) reads: 
If either House of the Parliament or a Committee of either House, or of both Houses, of the Parliament requires the Commission to furnish to that House or Committee any information concerning the performance of the functions of the Commission under this Act, the Commission shall comply with the requirement. 
That sub-section remains in the Act. I think it is in that regard that the marginal note is correct. 
I am very pleased with the admission which  Senator Georges  has made that he has been drawn in but I do wish he would resist temptation before he discloses too much of his own philosophy of life which is obviously quite opposed not only to the amendments that are before us today but also of course to the entire scheme of the Trade Practices Act. What he has described to us today is quite simply, I think, a Soviet-type system of trade practices. 
Do not get upset. I am not accusing you of communism or anything. I think you have your own quaint form of individualism which would be quite inappropriate really to the Soviet system, but I do think that the idea on trade practices which you have is a system that is controlled and ensures that there are no cut prices at all- a system which ensures that those people who want to buy things will pay the high price for poor quality which is so much a part of the Soviet system. 
This is what you want,  Senator. I  saw it last year when I was in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. I invite you to go to the Soviet Union and look to the type of system which you are representing today because we are in fact talking about something quite different. We established a system of trade practices here a few years ago and it is one which the Liberal and Country Parties have maintained. It is designed to improve competition in this country. What we are doing today in this legislation is merely embellishing, amending and trying to improve the system that we have. It is a system to outlaw certain practices; and of course the whole basic system as it exists under the Trade Practices Act remains consistent and it will continue. What the Government is doing is introducing a series of amendments which I think will greatly improve the system. These amendments will enable the people to do that terrible thing that  Senator Georges  does not want to see; that is, to have cuts in prices at times and to give to the citizens better service than they would otherwise get. 
I understand that among the proposals which the Labor Party makes there is one that there should be an amendment to this legislation to refer it to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs for consideration. It would be my misfortune, being the  Chairman  of that Committee, if the Senate were so unwise to refer this matter to the Committee. 
I would be very much a reluctant bride. I can assure you of that because to my mind the committee system of this Senate is to be enhanced greatly by referring to committees matters that are not of the essence of political differences but matters on which senators can come together and find solutions to problems that are not at the heart of political disagreement. If anything is obvious in the amendments to this Bill it is the matter of political difference on clause 45d. It is a proposal which I support, along with the other major amendments in this Bill, but clearly it would be highly inappropriate and useless to refer to any Senate committee suggestions like this which have been debated over a considerable period and which call for resolution by this Parliament. I totally oppose the amendment, which is put forward by the Opposition, as being quite inappropriate and unnecessary. 
Let us look a little further at the legislation and see what has happened with regard to these amendments to the Act. I took part in the original debate on the trade practices legislation in 1974, when we as the Opposition secured some amendments, but not altogether satisfactory amendments, to the Bill. We have had 3 years in which to look at the operation of the Act and to come forward with proposals. The suggestion made today that these amendments to the Act have been hurried before the Parliament and not given proper consideration is nonsense in the extreme. The Swanson Committee was appointed in April 1976 to look at the operation of the Act. It reported as long ago as last August. 
-I say: 'Excellent'. The ability of the Government to listen to proposals right up to the last stage and to propose alterations to a Bill indicates that there is nothing calcified about this Government. I think that the Opposition should be extremely pleased about that. The legislation has been examined by a committee and the Bill has lain on the table of the Parliament. It has been considered in detail by members of this Parliament and others. I speak for myself, my staff and others interested in the proposals. Seminars were held to discuss the details. Many excellent suggestions have been made. Many people, and I am one of them, have made representations and have expressed concern from time to time about various proposals contained in these amendments. I am quite reasonably satisfied with the amendments that have been accepted by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  and his staff in the course of the discussions. 
On our side of the Parliament committees have discussed the legislation. I cannot speak for the Opposition. If it has not done its homework, that is too bad. On our side of the Parliament, committees from our parties have looked at the legislation over many months and have considered the alterations which have been proposed. They have listened to representations and put forward proposals. 
I pay the highest tribute to the Minister,  Mr Howard,  for the time he has spent and for the way in which he has explained proposals and considered amendments. I think that he has handled the Bill in a most admirable way throughout the period up to the conclusion of this discussion. Therefore, I say that there has been ample time for us to consider and determine this Bill today. In the course of the discussions many alterations have been made. 
One can draw attention, by referring to the Minister's speech, to the important provisions of this Bill. The Government has created a lot more certainty in regard to the determination of restrictive trade practices. It has taken examples of what has happened in the course of evidence before the committee and it has shown that there need to be adjustments to the law. It has cut out of the general provisions the restraint of trade provisions which were obscure and which caused some confusion in the law, and has created a single test in regard to trade practices. It has looked at price agreements and has come to the conclusion that there should not be an outright prohibition of them. I think it has been sensible in deciding that, whilst it wants as far as possible for there to be competition, it does not want to create for business organisations the position where they cannot consider reasonable price agreements and arrangements which are made and which facilitate the efficiency of business. 
It has gone further and has created the very controversial but, I think, very essential proposed section  45D,  which deals with secondary boycotts, and has applied it logically to employees as well as to employers. It was curious to hear today the criticism that was made by members of the Opposition of the penalties which would be applied where secondary boycotts are imposed by employees. Although there is a maximum figure of $250,000 which might be applied, one must realise that the damage that can be done by employees in regard to companies can far exceed $250,000. It is quite obvious that the damage that can be done can be ruinous to large business in this country. I think that that ought to be a matter in which employees are treated equally with employers, and I think that this is done. I will not say very much about proposed section  45D,  except that I believe that the refinement of it which finally has come into this legislation after much discussion and much controversy is desirable and necessary if we are to have fairness, equality and justice before the law, which applies to employees as well as to employers. Surely that is basic to this community and something which we ought to support. 
If one looks at the provisions in regard to small businesses, which have suffered very greatly from inflation over the last few years, one finds very refined but excellent proposals in the Bill. Where there are recommended price lists that are true price lists designed to protect and help businesses, they can exist. There are no longer to be blanket prohibitions which stop them from operating. There is a further concession in regard to price lists if they are issued by trade associations of more than 50 members. Even if they do have some anti-competitive effect, they will be eligible for authorisation on the ground of public benefit. Public benefit surely should be the major test in these matters. I think that the various provisions relating to small businesses should have the support of the Senate. 
I am very happy to see that in the final analysis section 49 of the Act, which relates to price discrimination, is retained. I know that at one time it was proposed that it be abolished because it has not been completely effective. But I am delighted to see that the Government has decided finally, bearing in mind the very substantial recommendations that were made by very many associations of small businesses to me and to other members of the committee such as  Senator Messner,  not to abolish this section. At the same time the Government says that there are difficulties in the section and that it does not intend to leave it as it is at the present time. It will look at its operation in the next session and at the same time it will consider what alterations can be made that will lead ultimately to this being a much more effective section than it is at the present time. 
I do not propose to go through the major parts of this Bill. There is a tendency on the part of the Opposition to concentrate on proposed section 45d. That means, in effect, that other very useful amendments tend to be neglected in the public mind. The procedures of the Trade Practices Commission have been reviewed. Now there is to be a simple balance between benefits and detriments to the public which will determine whether the authorisations shall be allowed when it comes to a decision being made. I believe that the various proposals in regard to the workings of the Commission have a great deal to recommend them. I had some doubts at one stage as to whether the fact that there will not be public hearings in the earlier proceedings was desirable, but it is clear that on appeal proceedings there will be public hearings. Therefore, in essence, there will not be the great wastage of time which occurred in the original proceedings. In the ultimate there will be a right to public hearings in the area where it counts most to the public, namely, on the appeals, and this is important. 

 Senator Ryan had something to say about consumer protection proceedings. I was amazed when I heard that she was quite praiseworthy of the earlier provisions; but then, of course, she fell into some criticism of the Bill. It is very important to look at the provisions which improve the position of consumer protection. Clearly there will continue to be a common rule and common procedure in regard to it, but the fact that the court may now order affirmative disclosure or corrective advertising as a remedy for contravention of the consumer protection provisions is an important change. It enables the court therefore to be more effective in ensuring that the consumer is better protected in this area. So, I welcome the changes that have occurred in this area. I note that the Government intends to legislate in the area of consumer protection and ultimately to cover the field. I think that is desirable, rather than having a multiplicity of laws both in the Territories and in the States. 
Perhaps the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  could give me some information on one matter. Last year the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs considered the Australian Capital Territory ordinances in regard to manufacturers' warranties and misrepresentation and made recommendations. I do not think they have been proclaimed yet. They have been before the Legislative Assembly. 
Yes, in an altered form. We recommended some amendments. We recommended that both should be reintroduced as ordinances and that both should come into effect. They have not come into effect yet. I hope they will come into effect and that they will operate as a guide, to some extent, to other areas of Australia where the same proposals are not as far advanced at the moment. Even if the Commonwealth intends to cover the field in due course, I hope the operation of such proposals in the Australian Capital Territory will not be delayed. I hope that they will be brought into effect. I was pleased to hear that ultimately the desire is to have Commonwealth legislation covering the position in regard to many of the consumer areas. I would be interested to know whether that aspect is to be included in the meanwhile so that there will not be a complete delay. 
I do not propose to go into the precise details of the clauses because I think they have been argued very widely in the community, perhaps not widely by individual members of the community as these are particularly specialist matters. As a lawyer, I do not maintain that I have a specialist detailed knowledge of the operation of the Trade Practices Act. It has never been within my practical experience as a lawyer that I have had much to do with it. I have been interested in this field. I was interested in the Bill which went through the Parliament in the first place. I took part in its deliberations. I have known people who, because of their professional knowledge and business knowledge, have been concerned about the Bill for more than a year, during the deliberation of these amendments. I believe the result is a very good amendment Bill. It will have to be amended subsequently. There is no doubt that that will happen. I think it is to the credit of the Government, particularly the Minister,  Mr Howard,  that the Bill has been handled patiently and in elaborate detail over the last year. I hope it will be passed and will come into operation at an early date. 
I present the thirteenth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report-by leave-adopted. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources or the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. Is it true that there is a large trade in Australian opals which are purchased on the opal fields by foreign merchants who then often smuggle them out of Australia for further processing? What action can be taken to ensure that Australia and the opal processing industry receive a fair return for opals? 
It is impossible in the few minutes available to me to make any detailed examination of this Bill or of the situation of legal aid, in which I have been closely interested for many years now. I am not to be taken as disagreeing with many of the things that have been said by  Senator Button  and others about the extraordinary situation in which we are forced to rush through this Parliament a Bill of considerable importance such as this one. That is not new. Honourable senators will remember that it happened when the Whitlam Government was in power. We have not learned how to manage this situation. We have a lot of nonsense in the Address-in-Reply debate and other wasteful speeches early in the session and we finish up with important legislation causing a lot of trouble at the end. 
That does not mean that it may not be necessaryI think it is necessary- to pass this Bill and I do not support the idea that it should be put back into the melting pot at this stage, as suggested by the amendment. Back in 1975 at a stage when I was handling the Bill in the Senate and we were about to move to send the Bill to a Senate committee, it is a pity that we did not take that opportunity. But that is spilt milk. We have been busy negotiating with some very lacklustre and backward States which have not pushed forward very quickly to co-operate with the Commonwealth in establishing a good and sufficient legal aid scheme. That has not been due to any lack of trying on the part of the AttorneyGeneral of the Commonwealth. I say as a personal remark that I think a lot more might be done, and no doubt it is necessary now to bring these things to some sort of conclusion. 
The passage of this Bill gives a firm basis upon which the Attorney-General can proceed to negotiate to some conclusion with the States in obtaining a complete scheme. The delay, on the other hand, might not have been altogether too bad, because in 1975 there was among the private lawyers a great hatred of the Australian Legal Aid Office and those who were salaried officers of legal aid schemes. But I think there has been a great change in the attitude and a realisation that in any legal aid scheme that is any good there needs to be a substantial aspect of a salaried service. At least that is one thing that has come into the consciousness of the private lawyers of this country. They have realised that there is a great advantage in that. I hope that their motives are altogether pure. Sometimes they are not. Nonetheless, I think some wisdom has been gained in the period of delay. 
This Bill does not do as much as has been suggested by some honourable senators. It creates a supervising body. It creates a Commonwealth body which in the future will supervise for the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission the effect of legal aid and it will be able to advise the Attorney-General in the areas where it is good or bad. It also does something to protect the position of those officers who would go across to a State scheme. I think it is accepted that that is going to happen. Those powers which are now in this Bill are a useful basis upon which the Attorney can negotiate and endeavour to obtain proper conditions for those who have served the Commonwealth well in legal aid and who need to be protected, who need to have the right, if necessary, to go back into the Commonwealth Public Service. Although the Bill does not spell this out, I hope the mobility of these people will also be protected in the negotiations that go on with the States. Therefore I say that this Bill provides a base upon which negotiations with the States can be carried out and whereby particular schemes can be developed. 
I hope that in the negotiations that go on in the next few months there will be proper protection. I believe there will be a forceful determination to ensure that the schemes which operate in the States are not dominated by the private profession. The private profession should be well represented on them, but I hope that the schemes will not be dominated. I hope, for example, that if the Western Australian scheme is to gather in money from the Commonwealth and operate, it will not be dominated as it is at the moment, with the private profession in control. 
No, it depends on negotiations. If those negotiations do not succeed we will be back here. I think every one realises that we may well be back later on with necessary alterations to this legislation when the negotiations with these very diverse States are all completed. It is important that we ensure that there is a salaried service component in the State schemes. That is something which can be achieved. I think it is important to realise that the Commonwealth has great responsibilities. About 80 per cent of the money now spent goes into Commonwealth areas of responsibility, mainly the family law area. Of course it is necessary that the continued influence of the Commonwealth is seen and that it has supervision of the State schemes to ensure that the money is not wasted but is used to the best effect. We must ensure that in the areas where the private profession can best be employed it is employed, and that in the areas where the salaried service can best carry out the duties it is engaged, so that no one group will dominate to the exclusion of the other. 
It is unfortunate that this Bill has been hurried and that there has been inadequate time to hear all the representations. Many representations have been made over the years, and we cannot alford to have the scheme continue in the way in which it has been operating for a long time. On balance, I think we should proceed with this Bill because it will provide a base from which the Attorney-General can negotiate proper schemes with the States and introduce proper schemes for the Territory. We will watch their development. I am sure we will take a continued interest in the question of legal aid and that we will see more of the matter in the future. For those reasons, I believe that it is important to pass the Bill and to have the operation brought to some sort of conclusion. If that is not done the States will say: What have you done? What is your basis? How can we negotiate from this?' I hope that by passing this Bill we will be able to get the States, some of which are quite slow, to come forward and put their own proposals on the line. In that way we will have a good scheme in operation but we must ourselves continue to maintain a close observation of it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1) Is the incidence of the tree disease 'Dieback' increasing in Victorian forests. 
What information is available to suggest any link between the spread of 'Dieback' and timber felling or woodchipping operations. 
What research is being undertaken to eliminate this threat to Australia 's forests. 
-My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister, refers to the current actions of the media entrepreneur,  Mr Kerry  Packer, in his attempts to destroy or seriously weaken international test cricket, In  Mr Packer's  efforts to create a cricket circus in competition with next season's test cricket in Australia, will he be requiring the co-operation in any way of the Federal Government or any of its agents or instrumentalities? Can the Minister assure the Senate that the Government will not be cooperating either directly or indirectly with  Mr Packer  in facilitating his circus performances or in the damaging of international test cricket? 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
Have import quotas on fully made up curtains been lifted, whilst quotas are retained on imports of raw materials for curtain manufacture in Australia. 
Does the Minister agree that, since Australian curtain manufacturers are still limited in their imports of such raw materials, they will be seriously disadvantaged when competing against imports. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. I refer to a report in the  Age  of 6 August 1977 which detailed the tremendous destruction of Victorian waterways being caused by European carp, especially in the River Murray system. Does the Minister agree that this problem is spreading at an alarming rate and is now serious enough to constitute a national problem? Does the Minister also agree that, compared with the enormity of the problem, comparatively little is currently being done about it? Will the Government give recognition to the serious nature of the European carp problem and act with urgency to mitigate the enormous damage currently being inflicted on Australian waterways and the environment generally? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 3 June 1977: 
1 ) How many applications have been made in 1977 for grants under the new Home Savings Grant Scheme. 
How many applicants were successful and how much money has been, or will be, paid out in respect of these applicants. 
How many staff are employed, and in which offices around Australia, to administer this Scheme. 
What is the estimated total cost of administering the new Scheme. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the decision of the Canberra meeting in June of the International Whaling Commission to reduce whale harvesting quotas by almost 10,000, down to a total of 18,000 whales for 1978. Since this follows a reduction in the previous year, does this not indicate a growing conclusion by the world's whaling and non-whaling nations that there needs to be more drastic action to conserve the whale? Does the Government recognise this trend and will it therefore accelerate Australia's transition to a non-whaling nation and support the total moratorium on the killing of whales? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer to the Industries Assistance Commission draft report on the music recording industry in Australia and in particular to the recommendations within the report to abolish the present 20 per cent quota for the broadcasting of Australian records on Australian radio. Can the Minister assure the Senate that in the best interests of the maintenance and development of the Australian music industry, this 20 per cent quota will not be decreased in any way? 
-I present the fourteenth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. I refer to the statement by the Treasurer in the presentation of the 1977-78 Budget which says: 
To finance increased coal research the Government will levy 5 cents a tonne on coal produced in Australia in the next three years; the levy will have effect from midnight tonight and is expected to provide $3. 4m this year. 
Can the Minister inform the Senate of the details of the proposed allocation of these funds and the areas of coal research likely to be undertaken or expanded? 
I wish to say something about this Bill which, of course, amends one particular aspect of this legislation, the Family Law Act. It is the opportunity which the Parliament now has under the Constitution to fix a retiring age of 65 years for Family Court judges. This was recommended by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs three years ago, and it was applied and put into force with respect to the establishment of State family courts. One State court has been established in Western Australia and operates with these provisions. 
As a result of the constitutional amendment of May 1977, this is something which can be done so far is the Federal Family Court is concerned. I believe it will be a desirable amendment, and it will, of course, be applicable only to new judges. It is in accordance with opinions expressed some years ago when the Family Law Act was passed and views which have been expressed since. There are important social questions involved and such is the need forjudges in this specialist court to be completely familiar and up to date with current needs, that there ought to be this provision. I welcome the Bill and hope that it will receive a speedy passage. 
It seems to me that one should say a few things about some other aspects of the administration and current state of the Family Court in Australia while a Bill of this type is being discussed. I realise that this is not the last word and that there will be opportunities for others considerations to be expressed. 
There is now a Family Law Council which is in a position to make recommendations to the Parliament. One would expect that the operation of a court which is now quite extensive and which covers a very wide field of jurisdiction will require alterations from time to time. In March of this year I made a speech on the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Amendment Bill, which I am sure my friends from Tasmania regarded as an imposition. During the first reading stage of that Bill I made a speech about family law administration. It appears at page 453 of  Hansard  of 23 March 1977. In that speech I endeavoured to say something about the situation at that time concerning the operations of the Family Court. I produced certain material which had come mainly from the operations of the court in Victoria and which suggested that there were grave deficiencies and delays that were greatly lessening the effectiveness of the court. With  Mr Phillip  Ruddock, M.P., I also went to see the operation of the Court in Parramatta. It was a relatively new Court and one which was operating, as I saw it then, very much more in accordance with our expectations when this Bill was passed. 
At that time the court in Parramatta was operating very successfully, with very little delay and with the achievement of early court action which very often stopped domestic disputes from becoming complicated affairs and prevented hardship and injustice which develop when there is delay and justice is not done. Unfortunately, I find that since that time- even in a matter of a few months- that delays have accumulated in the Parramatta court as well. I have had the opportunity of speaking recently to the family law practitioners in New South Wales, particularly those who are associated with the Parramatta court. What has happened is that the great delays which are occurring in the courts have spread to Parramatta. People throughout Sydney are putting their cases down for hearing at the Parramatta court. The result is that there are now something like 900 applications not yet dealt with in the court. Its period of delay in dealing with cases has lengthened in the last few months. I suggest that there is a serious situation at the present time. 
As I have said, I had the opportunity of talking recently to the family law practitioners in New South Wales and of obtaining detailed information. I do not propose to go into that detailed material this afternoon because I know it is desired that this Bill should have early passage. Also, I want to check the situation in Melbourne next week. I want to find out from practitioners and judges in Melbourne just what the situation is there. I believe it is also a pretty alarming situation in Victoria. In Sydney alone there are, in the defended list, which has hardly moved for many months, something like 1,100 defended cases waiting for hearing. It is estimated that defended matters, in which custody applications are often involved, may take two years to be determined. Of course, this runs completely contrary to what the Family Law Act was intended to achieve. One of the important things which it was intended to achieve was a speedier form of justice and an informal and less legalistic method. 
I was told in Sydney of one application that has already been before the courts eight times because the judges do not have the time to deal with it. They deal briefly with the matter and put it aside. Another application has been before the courts five times. One Sydney lawyer put it to me that delay begets delay in this jurisdiction. I think honourable senators will see that that is so. If there is a delay in a matter in which custody is an issue there will be application after application over such matters as access or because perhaps one party threatens to take the child interstate. There will be additional litigation before the court due partly to the delay in dealing with the whole matter. 
I have here two letters, one dated 9 February 1977 from the Family Law Practitioners Association of New South Wales to the AttorneyGeneral, the  Hon.  R. J. Ellicott, and a reply of 1 8 May 1977 by  Mr Ellicott  to  Mr Broun,  the  President  of that Association. Those two letters set out the problem particularly in New South Wales. I seek leave to incorporate the two letters in  Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The letters read as follows- 

THE FAMILY LAW PRACTITIONERS ASSOCIATION OF NEW SOUTH WALES 
9 February 1977 
The  Hon.  R. J. Ellicott Q.C., M.H.R., Attorney-General for the Commonwealth, King and Macquarie Streets, Sydney, NSW 2000 
Dear  Mr Attorney, 
Delays in the Family Court of Australia 
We write to place on record the very serious problems that are becoming apparent in the Family Court of Australia by reason of the inadequate number of judges. 
Over the last few days and the next few days call-overs are occurring in which each judge is fixing dates for the hearing of matters which were filed up to about August 1976, and which are defended. Some of these matters being called over were filed in January or February 1976 and a few were filed in October 1976 to January 1977 and had been expedited. 

 Mr Justice Pawley's callover was held on 4 February 1977. There were 96 matters in his honor's list. He fixed dates only to the end of June 1977, which got through his list up to number 50. The remaining 46 matters were stood over to the next call-over on 30 June 1977. By that time many of the dates between then and the end of the year will already have been taken by matters part heard from the first half of the year. It would seem unlikely that his honor will be able to fix dates before the end of the year for all 46 matters left over from the call-over of 4 February 1977 by 30 June 1977. He will, however, have added about another 100 matters to his call-over list. We estimate that figure of 100 on the basis that the 96 his honor had accumulated by 4 February came from a period of about 6 months filings, and matters filed mainly between August 1976 and February 1977 will come before his honor between now and the end of June 1977. The list he will have for call-over by 30 June 1977 will therefore represent about 18 months work.  His  honor was left with no free dates between now and the end of June for urgent matters or to complete part heard matters. 
On the morning of 7 February 1977  Mr Justice  Goldstein held the first half of his call-over. He called over 66 matters and gave dates to all, filling his list to the end of July except for one date.  His  honor has a further call-over of a slightly smaller list on 28 February 1977 but has indicated all of those not settled will be stood over to his next call-over on 2 August. Goldstein J, has begun on 7 and 8 February to stand defended matters to his call-over on 2 August 1977. By 2 August 1977 his honor will have about 18-24 months work to call-over. 
On the afternoon of 7 February 1977  Mr Justice  RossJones held his call-over. The list was 104 matters.  His  honor filled his list to the end of July. That advanced him to number 30 in his list, although a few from lower down in the list had also been fixed because they were part heard or had been expedited. Approximately 70 were stood over to his honor's next call-over on 1 1 July 1 977. It seems clear there is no hope that all those matters can be fixed for dates before the end of the year. The matters filed up to now, which will come before his honor for the first time between now and June, will presumably hope for dates in 1978. In the course of his honor's call-over his honor declined to fix more than 3 days for a case, even though in practice a 'day' in the Family Court means only 2 hours to  2Vi  hours, and most defended custody matters would take 10 to 15 hours of hearing, and frequently more. 

 Mr Justice Hogan and  Mr Justice  Dovey are each having call-overs within the next week, and their lists are even longer.  Mr Justice  Hogan only has about 30 hearing dates left between now and the end of July by reason of expedited or part heard matters, so it is unlikely he will be able to fix many more than about 25 matters. 
There is a rumour widely circulating that the government is considering appointing 3 more judges of the Family Court for NSW within the next few weeks. While we must welcome that, if it is true, we must point out that the number will be totally inadequate. It seems to us that if 3 new judges were appointed today then allowing for 6 weeks leave and 2 weeks on the Full Court per judge, and assuming an average time of I  Vi  days per case, (which may be optimistic since cases of 6 days or longer are common and cases of less than 2 hours hearing time are rare) the 3 new judges would probably be able to hear by the end of 1977 the cases left over from the call-overs going on now. 
That would free the existing 5 judges in the second half of the year to hear some of the cases that will come on for mention in the next few months, i.e. cases filed in 1 976, but still cases commenced early in 1 977 could not hope for a hearing until 1 978 which is just too long. 
The Family Court of Australia started with a clean slate in January 1976. The present enormous backlog has been accumulated in just one year during almost half of which (i.e. till 3 1 May 1 976 ) about 45 per cent of the new matters were still being filed in the Supreme Court. We understand that in Victoria where from January 1976 less than 5 per cent of the new matters were filed in the Supreme Court, the backlog now accumulated is much worse even than in NSW. 
We would submit for your urgent consideration that the number of judges for the Family Court sitting in New South Wales needs to be increased to 20 immediately. But we would like to say that we think 20 would be inadequate to cover the city, Parramatta and do proper country circuits so as to do the cases within a reasonable time of their being ready for hearing. We think however it may be difficult for various practical reasons to appoint more than another 13 judges in a short space of time, and there may be justification for watching developments to the end of this year before taking the appointments beyond 20. 
Yours faithfully, 
Malcolm D. BROUN President 
Attorney-General Parliament House Canberra, A.C.T. 2600 18 May 1977 
Dear  Mr Broun, 
I refer to your letter of 9 February 1977 on behalf of the family Law Practitioners Association of New South Wales concerning delays in the hearing of cases in the Sydney Registry of the Family Court of Australia. 
I share your concern at the amount of work with which the Family Court in Sydney is confronted and the resultant time people have to wait for their cases to be heard. The workload of the Court, to date, has been far in excess of the level expected, with the result that, as you know, considerable stress has been placed on the Judges and staff of the Court, the legal profession and the general public. This is so despite the fact that a total of 30 Judges have been appointed to the Family Court so far, including  Mr Justice  Cook and  Mr Justice  Yuill to the Sydney and Parramatta Registries since the date of your letter. 
Because of my concern at the delays, I have recently completed a review of the judicial workload of the Family Court, with a view to expediting the disposal of matters before the Court. As a result, the Family Law (Judges) Regulations have just been amended to allow the appointment of up to 6 more Judges, who I expect would be appointed in the next 6 to 1 2 months. You will realise that, having regard to its policy of containing public expenditure, the Government could not consider the appointment of the additional number suggested by you. 
However, I am not convinced that the problem of the delays will be cured by the appointment of Judges alone. Accordingly, action is currently being taken to recruit further court counsellors and legal officers to the major Family Court registries. The additional legal officers will share the work of the Registrar in conducting conferences with parties to attempt to reach a settlement under regulation 96 of the Family Law Regulations, and in conducting financial inquiries under regulation 99. As you would be aware, the use of both counselling and regulation 96 conferences at an early stage of proceedings has already proved successful in reducing the number of defended cases that have to be dealt with in court. 
Another possibility I am examining to expedite the disposal of proceedings is dispensing with the attendance of the parties and their legal representatives at the determination of divorce applications that are undefended. I have recently received a report on the matter from the Family Law Council, and have asked my Department to prepare for my consideration amendments to the Family Law Regulations that would enable the courts to dispose of cases in this way. 
Yours sincerely, R.J. ELLICOTT, Q.C., Attorney-General 

 Mr M. D. Broun,  President, 
Family Law Practitioners Association, c/0 Mr P. 1. Rose, 174 Phillip Street, Sydney, N.S.W. 2000 
I particularly draw attention to the fact that practitioners in New South Wales have suggested that there is a need, not for the six judges that there are in Sydney at the moment but for 20 judges. I understand from talking to them since then that they claim that there is a need for even more judges than that today. 
The number of judges that can be appointed to the Family Court has been increased from 30 to 36. The extra judges have not yet been appointed but no doubt they will be appointed after this Bill is passed, and they will, of course, be subject to the age limit. The fact that in one city something like 12 or 13 judges are needed to deal with the current situation must suggest that there is a need for a greater number of judges than is proposed at the present time. Those figures sound extraordinarily high but one must realise that, before we had a Family Law Act, in New South Wales there was the Family Law Division of the Supreme Court with five or six judges and magistrates were doing much more substantial family law work throughout the State and now they are doing much less. In Victoria before the Act came into force there were something like 20 judges or magistrates working on family law matters on any one day. There were magistrates and also the supreme court judges who were hearing divorces, defended matters and practice matters. A lot of domestic matters also went, by way of appeal, to the County Court in Victoria. Whereas there had been perhaps 20 people dealing with family law matters now there are nine judges in Victoria at the present time handling or trying to handle this work. Obviously there is a considerable need for appointing more judges. 
In the letter which I have incorporated the Attorney-General points out that it is not just a matter of appointment of judges. Ancillary staff such as deputy registrars- useful if they are wellqualified people- could hear preliminary applications. To have more court counsellors, welfare officers and legal officers could greatly improve the facility and the ability of the court to operate as an effective unit. The Attorney-General recognises that fact and I know that efforts are being made to find qualified staff for this purpose. The two things go together. 
Unquestionably there is a difficult situation- I hope that in a future debate shortly we will be able to expand on this- in which the delays in the courts and the hardship which people suffer at the moment can be examined and they certainly require more judges and more ancillary staff. We cannot be satisfied if this does not come to pass. 
In passing I draw to the attention of the Senate the fact that on page 29 of the Budget Paper No. 2, Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) 1977-78, reference is made to two matters that I think should be mentioned. There is, of course, an increase in the Family Court expenditure but there is another aspect which I think is somewhat regrettable. Reference is made to the Family Law Council which in 1976-77 had a Budget appropriation of $25,000, of which only $5,949 was spent. This year the appropriation has been reduced to $15,000. The Family Law Council is an important body. It is a somewhat limited body in its present composition. It does not cover all the extremities of views of organisations that are connected with an interested in family law but it is a body which is important. I regret to see a decline in its appropriation and a failure last year to spend more than about one-quarter of its appropriation. Likewise, the Institute of Family Studies is a professional body, designed to look at the statistics and at the situation of family life in Australia and to try to assist not only the Family Law Council but also, I presume, the Government in the administration of this Act. That body had an appropriation for last year of $80,000 of which it actually spent $4,879. That is about onetwentieth of its appropriation. This year the appropriation is reduced to $50,000. One would have thought that that body ought to be expanding and ought not to be receiving a lower appropriation. There may be explanations for this situation but I suggest that, at a period when there is quite a considerable crisis in the family law situation in Australia, it is regrettable to see reductions of that sort. 
There is one other aspect I want to raise at this stage in this preliminary debate about the family law situation. It has been drawn to my attention by Sydney practitioners that there have been some mistakes in the original formulation of the costs regulations which are prescribed for practitioners under the Act. Some redrafting was accepted as being necessary. The position is that people who practise in the family law jurisdiction do not know what their situation is at the present time, what their entitlements are, and their clients do not know what are the amounts that should be charged. I understand that those redrafts were carried out. They were to be gazetted, the Sydney practitioners believed, in December of last year. I understand that they have not been gazetted. I have not seen them. I hope that I am wrong in saying that. But I wonder why this matter has not been given the clarification which is needed by the people who practise, and who are specialists in the family law jurisdiction. 
The position at the moment is pretty bad. The position in regard to cases that are defended, such as custody cases, is pretty serious. We have seen examples of people taking the law into their own hands, of husbands seizing children and taking them overseas. These things happen more readily in a situation in which they cannot see justice done, where they are told that they may have to wait a year or two, because they know that if children are in the hands of the wife for two years this must have a considerable influence on the decision of the Court. The Court cannot help taking into account the fact that there is a stabilised situation, even though justice has not been done, because the situation has been allowed to continue for some period. This occurs particularly in that area and in the area where the enforcement of maintenance orders has broken down very considerably, where the State courts are not willing to act in an enforcement action and where there is inadequate money to carry out that enforcement. In many cases money could be saved by the Commonwealth if the enforcement took place, but it does not happen. So orders are made by the Court. They are flouted. That cannot be a good situation. It does not increase the status of the Family Court. It is not a help to society; it is certainly not even a help to the finances of the Federal Government. 
I believe we have a good Act. The Family Law Act is, I think, standing up well under very considerable pressure. I think it is pointing and achieving results in the right direction. It is however, a very disappointing Act to this stage because of the great delay in the hearing of cases, the inadequate number of judges and staff and the inability to achieve the potential which it has and the potential which should be achieved by those organisations, the Family Law Council and the Institute of Family Studies, of which I have spoken. I propose to take up this matter at a further stage. I support this amending Bill. I believe it is a sensible amendment which will improve the law. Many other things in connection with the Family Law Act shall need very close attention. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to a Press release issued by the Ethnic Communities Council of Victoria alleging that a confidential interdepartmental report on ethnic broadcasting formed the basis of the Government's decision to terminate broadcasting by radio station 3ZZ. Does that report in fact exist? Was the report used as the basis for the Government's decision? Can the report be made available to members of parliament? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health or, alternatively, to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. I refer to the report in the  Australian Financial Review  of 30 August 1977 regarding the health dangers associated with the inhalation of asbestos dust which stated that the Asbestos Association of Australia was launching a campaign to dispel fears of the dangers of asbestos products. Is it true, as claimed, that Australia lags far behind the United Kingdom and Canada in the publicity given to the dangers of handling asbestos fibres? Do the records of the Department of Veterans' Affairs and other departments disclose evidence of the serious health hazards, including the susceptibility to lung cancer, to persons working in the mining and processing of asbestos? Can the Minister ensure that consideration will be given to increasing the community awareness of the dangers by a government-sponsored publicity campaign? 
I raise in the adjournment debate tonight a matter which cannot satisfactorily be dealt with by way of questions. It is a specific matter and one which is not suitable therefore to be raised in the Budget debate. It is of considerable importance and ought to be given consideration by the Government and by members of this Parliament. It relates to the totally unsatisfactory situation in respect of the re-refining of oil in this country. The fact is that no policy exists, so far is I know, specifying under what circumstances the rerefining of oil will be done and in what way we can avoid the current situation where organisations that are engaged, as private firms, in rerefining oil are going to the wall and are being forced in some circumstances to close their premises. Oil, a limited resource, is becoming even more limited in the world. We have to import heavy oils from overseas. The situation is growing each day more desperate as this resource is not being used. It is creating greater pollution, as I will show, of the atmosphere, of the drains and of many other parts of this country. 
The process of the re-refining of oil- this is not perhaps a matter which is known to all members; it is only in recent months that I have become a little more familiar with it- not only in this country but also overseas has been perfected after many years of scientific research and practical experience. I take the case of one organisation that operates in Victoria. It claims that it is possible not only to re-refine all used oils to first grade specifications but also in most cases to return it to a degree of quality surpassing the original. An engine cannot wear oil out. It does subject it to greater stress than the original refiner, revealing many weaknesses not previously eliminated. It contaminates the oil with impurities- road dust, grit, carbon, sludge, metal particles, water, petrol and colloidal impuritiesas well as breaking down some molecules through terrific heat and friction. That is the situation with waste oil. Remove these impurities, recover only the tough molecules that have witstood engine stresses, and we have an oil which will give better results than the original because it is composed only of molecules which have already proven their ability to resist disintegration under working conditions. Even second grade oils and mixed drainages can thus be transformed into first grade oils. To finish on this aspect, the publication  Scientific Lubrication  has had this to say: 
We have found in the laboratory and on the test bench that regenerated oils are indeed superior in most cases to the virgin lubricant and, furthermore, that such oils respond remarkably well to treatment with additives. 
Some suggestions come from the oil companies on occasions that the waste oils cannot be used. There have been some suggestions that the military overseas would not use re-refined oil. In fact there is no reason in the world why it cannot be used. There is no reason why this finite component which is in limited supply cannot be used over and over again. 
My attention was first brought to this matter by an article which appeared in the Melbourne  Herald  on 21 March this year headed 'Lube Oil- A Sticky Problem'. I do not propose to go through the arguments in that article now. They will come up in the course of what I have to say. I did set out a serious situation. In this country no policy exists in this matter. No effort is being really made to ensure that the re-refined oil is being used. Following that article I asked a question in the Senate on 3 1 March of this year and received a positive reply on the spot from  Senator Carrick.  In the course of that question I pointed out the contents of this article and said: 
Australia recycles only a small fraction of used automotive and other lubricating oils and that most of the used oil is either dumped or burned, often with adverse environmental effects. 
I asked: 
In view of Australia's dependence upon imports of heavy lubricating oil, are any plans envisaged to encourage effective oil recycling? 

 Senator Carrick made a positive response to that. He understood the importance of the matter in overseas terms but was not familiar with what was happening in Australia. He said: 
I accept the final premise in the question asked by  Senator Missen  that this matter is important because of the growing import burden and import costs. Therefore, I shall have the matter looked at. 
I received a further answer in July of this year to that question.  Senator Withers,  in written answer said: 
The Acting Minister for National Resources has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government is conscious of the arguments in favour of reprocessing of lubricating oil and some reprocessing does take place. 
However, complex issues are involved. On the one hand there are environmental and conservation aspects, and on the other important questions involving financial consideration for the industry. Also, in many respects, the issues involved fall within the jurisdiction of the States. 
In some European countries action has been initiated to encourage the collection and re-refining of waste lubricating oil. 
The Department of National Resources follows developments in regard to recycling very closely and the whole question is currently being reviewed. 
I have some doubt that that answer really gives a frank and accurate position on the matter. The 
Minister has supplied the answer. I do not suggest for a moment that he does not believe that is the situation. I have reason to think that the matter has not been followed as closely as anyone would desire. I should mention that correspondence went on during this period between the solicitors for the Leroc Oil Co. Pty Ltd, a Victorian company which has tried to keep this matter going and is now close to going to the wall because of the difficulties, and the Government. The solicitors received an answer dated 7 July from the Minister Assisting the Minister for National Resources,  Mr Evan  Adermann, M.P., as follows: 
Thank you for your letter of 20 May in which you made representations in regard to the difficulties encountered by Leroc Oil Company Pty Ltd in its waste oil re-refining operations. 
I regret to advice that I can see no way in which the Commonwealth can assist in resolving the company's immediate problems. The environmental issues fall within the responsibilities of the Victorian Government and I note you have made representations to them in this regard. 
The problem of waste oil disposal in Australia is now the subject of close study by the Department of National Resources. When completed it will probably require further consideration with other Departments, and possibly other interested parties, including the States, so it may be some time before any final conclusions are reached. However, your client's interests will be borne in mind in this respect and an endeavour made to expedite a determination of the Government's overall position on the matter. 
Back on 3 1st March,  Mr John  Rappell, the Managing Director of that company, made a complaint. He had seen  Mr Adermann  and had been assured at that stage that within a month something would be done by the public servants present. I mention on the basis of information I have received and which I believe to be true that for at least three to four months a report from a junior officer has been lying on the desk of an officer of the Department of National Resources. I believe the report is favourable to the rerefining of oil and a policy in this respect. The report has been lying there untouched for three to four months. I do not therefore think it can be said that this matter is being pursued at the speed and to the degree that it should. I ask when one gets these sorts of answers in the Parliament, whether it is a fact that the matter is being pursued thoroughly or whether a report is lying about. If the report is lying about why has no action been taken? 
I turn to the position of the company in Victoria about which I have now made some inquiries. I hope it is not even necessary to say this, but I have no personal interest in this company. My contact with it has come recently. The company has communicated with me. Its representatives have given me the facts of the company's involvement. This company has been in existence for some 40 years. It is Australian owned.  Mr Rappell  and his family bought into it in about 1973 and now substantially own it. The company has been operating in this field for some considerable period. It was producing a great deal of re-refined oil. Now its premises are closed, for reasons which I will mention. 
In 1973, there was a crisis in regard to overseas oil. There was a great need for oil. The oil companies, particularly Mobil, agreed to take some 60 per cent of the re-refined oil or 100,000 gallons a month. As a consequence, the Leroc Company spent some $250,000 to update its plant so that it could produce that sort of capacity. Unfortunately when the crisis passed, a different situation occurred. The company which was prepared to take the re-refined oil gave six months notice that it would take no more of the oil. That company proceeded to bring into operation its own refinery in, I think, Adelaide. So the Leroc Company, with assets of about $750,000, has since found itself unable to sell the quantity of rerefined oil that would make it economic for it to continue in operation. 
In Victoria alone, approximately 29 million gallons of lubricating oil are sold annually. Approximately 50 per cent, or about 15 million gallons, is returned as waste oil to one of the major companies or to the Leroc Company. Unfortunately the Leroc Company was faced with a demand- I do not propose to go into the details of this- from the Environment Protection Authority in Victoria to take steps to eradicate a smell coming from its production. The company is in an area where there are offensive trades, an area where rightly or wrongly there are now some Housing Commission homes. The company has not been able to carry out the requirements of the EPA by reason of the fact that it would cost $70 a day to do so. The company's profits were only $1 1,000 in the year in question, and it would be quite uneconomic, unless the oil companies were prepared to take its product, for it to meet the Authority's demand. That would mean the oil companies taking about 100,000 gallons a month. 
In 1 975 it was in active production and had the capacity to use approximately 3.5 million gallons of waste oil annually which, when processed, would amount to about 2.5 million gallons of finished oil. It was also able to produce it at approximately 8c a gallon below the price charged by the lubricating oil refineries. This oil met the necessary quality specifications. The Leroc Company would have been able to produce the re-refined oil if the oil companies would take it, but of course in recent times they have refused to do so. What the company was able to achieve at that stage in taking 3.5 million gallons of the total amount of waste oil was a real contribution in environmental terms. When the company had to close down in October of last year, 70,000 gallons were dumped in a matter of a few weeks. They were dumped in Melbourne in the municipal tips and other places, causing pollution. There is a prospect of that situation continuing. 
The position is further exacerbated by the fact that there is an accumulation of 6 million gallons of waste oil in Melbourne, as well as 3 million gallons in country areas which to some extent, with little expenditure, could have been brought by train to Melbourne and used if the Leroc Company had been able to produce the refuned oil and sell it back to the oil companies. As  Mr Rappell  says, the waste oil, if properly harnessed, could take care of 30 per cent of Australia's lubricating oil requirements. The lubricating oil refineries not only in Victoria but in other States as well could be used. This would mean a great contribution to our exchange and to our security in the future. As I said, the Leroc Company had trouble with the Environment Protection Authority. Unfortunately, it could not meet the Authority 's requirements with the result that it stopped production. Therefore the environment is greatly deteriorating. 
The company also had to fight its way through the Trade Practices Commission. Finally the Commission enabled the company to become a member of what is called PIECE- a committee of oil companies- when major oil companies had refused to allow the re-refiners to join. It was only because of the order of the Trade Practices Commission that the company was allowed to join. But that has been a hollow victory because that committee does not now operate to ensure that there is in any way a disposition of the rerefining of oil. As I have said, this company produced over 100,000 gallons of re-refined oil per month which needed to be disposed of. The market is not now available because the oil companies refuse to take this oil. They were prepared to allow this company, at the time it went out of production, to continue collecting some of the oil for the oil companies, but then they had to dispose of it elsewhere. They were not prepared to take the company's re-refined products. 
Dumping is a matter which should be of great concern to all in this Senate. In excess of 70,000 gallons of waste oil has now been dumped in municipal tips in a short period since the company stopped production in October. This is continuing to take place. It is interesting also that the oil companies are using the waste oil in different ways. They are collecting it and blending it with fuel oil. The blending which is going on, without any prior treatment of the oil and without any of the lead additives being removed, has resulted in more pollution in the atmosphere when the oil is burned. Yet not a single prosecution has been brought against any major oil company for a breach of the Environment Protection Act because lead is emitted from chimney stacks as a result of the burning of fuel oil without a licence. The companies mix this waste lubricating oil, all the time conscious of the ruling by the World Health Organisation that the percentage of lubricating oil must not be greater than three parts per hundred; otherwise it would become exceedingly dangerous to the population. Quite apart from that, the oil has been dumped in municipal tips and is leaking into drains and streams. 
There are matters of serious concern. This situation applies not only in Victoria. I do not have the precise details, but I have been told- and I have every reason to believe this-that  Mr Quackenbusch,  the managing director of the Western Refining Company in Western Australia, cannot get hold of waste oil. The oil companies in Western Australia are prepared to pay more for the waste oil than he is. They are prepared to buy it up to put him out of business.  Mr Quackenbusch  is facing the risk of going out of business, if he is not already out of business, and will not be able to continue re-refining. I believe that the oil companies have a considerable vested interest. They have their own refineries and they say that because they have surplus requirements they would rather bring in the original oil from overseas and have maximum capacity for their refineries. That would not be cheaper. The cheaper thing would be to re-refine the oil, but it suits them not to do that. I understand that both Shell and Mobil are planning extensions of their refineries. In other words, they are going to increase their excess capacity instead of taking the re-refined oil that is available. Further to that, in regard to the actions taken by the oil companies in blending the oil, the views of the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development are worth recording. The Trade Practices Commission in its decision of 22 October 1976 quoted from a submission from the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development dated 20 February 1976. The submission stated:   as the most environmentally desirable method of disposing of used oil is by re-refining, it is essential for the interests of the independent oil re-refiners to be protected in any arrangement to co-ordinate the recovery of waste lubricating oil. 
. The use of waste lubricating oil as a blended fuel oil for use in land installations, even if blended to one per cent is unacceptable. As a question of resource utilisation, it is in the national interest to re-refine used oil and use it again for lubrication rather than divert it to a lower grade use as fuel. 
That was the view of our own Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, and I think it adds to the point that we ought to have a policy from the Department of National Resources on what we are going to do to achieve the results mentioned. Overseas, particularly in the United States and West Germany, the re-refining of oil is a very considerable matter. In the United States something like 30 per cent of oil is re-refined and in West Germany by law 30 per cent of oil is required to be re-refined oil. There are many authorities, and I have details of some here, which speak of the value of this product. The European Economic Community has a new law which steps up from 20 per cent to 40 per cent the amount of re-refined oil which has to be used. 
I have only briefly sketched the situation, but I wish to point out that an urgent policy on this matter is needed. We must utilise the opportunities available to use oil again. In the interests of our environment, we must ensure that it is done. 
That is a separate matter. 
That may be so, but that is no argument against what I am suggesting. It is a different question altogether which I will leave for another time. There are different things that can be done. In West Germany a tax is imposed on the original oil which is then paid to the people who collect the waste oil. Federal and State governments should and can take the rerefined oil and use it and should be ensuring that their own departments use it substantially. The re-refined oil should not be blended with a pure oil. Obviously that is an undesirable thing. What I am saying is that it is important that the few refiners who are now struggling and who may fail, need the protection of this country and of the Government. They are providing employment. Leroc had 40 employees and now has seven people on its staff; it is doing other minor things but it cannot operate properly. The same situation applies in other States. I ask the Government to look urgently at this matter. If reports are lying on tables I ask that they be lifted and that we in this Parliament be told what is the situation. I believe that that is necessary in the interests of this country, and I hope that something will be done about it. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I refer to the editorial in the  Australian Financial Review  of 29 August, which defends the role of the Industries Assistance Commission and states that the Government intends to muzzle this independent body due to its controversial reports. Does not the Minister agree that the public should be aware of the actual costs which the community pays in the protection of specific industries? Is the Government in fact under no obligation to accept or implement particular recommendations made by the IAC? Can the Minister assure the Senate that the independence and integrity of this advisory body will not be jeopardised? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the recent announcement that AUS Travel Service Pty Ltd is re-opening for trading. I ask: Will students and individuals who lodged sums of money with AUS Travel be fully reimbursed, and when? What role has Qantas Airways Ltd played in the scheme of arrangement and, in particular, is Qantas forgoing any debts? Are the accounts of AUS Travel for the year ending 31 March 1977 required to be lodged at the Victorian Corporate Affairs Office? Will the old management of AUS Travel be completely excluded from management of the future affairs of the company? 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That Standing Order 76 be suspended to enable  Senator Missen  to present to the Senate the following petition received by him and signed by seven citizens of Australia, namely: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the actions of a member of the Schools Commission,  Mrs Joan  Kirner, have been a cause of grave concern to many members of the community in that  Mrs Kirner  has on a number of occasions made use of the public media- 

 - Mr President, I wish to speak to the point of order. I have considered the precedent which the late  Senator Greenwood  set when he moved a motion such as this in respect of a petition which did not bear the signature of the  Clerk.  I consider that there is undoubtedly power to give such a notice of motion and to move such a motion. The fact of the matter is that this petition represents a protest signed by certain citizens of Australia. Their protest is based upon the actions of a certain individual. It is impossible for them to make their protest without referring to the name of the individual and to the allegations which they make about the remarks that the individual has made. I do not seek to take the matter any further than that at this stage. I am merely giving notice of a motion in respect of which a point of order has been taken. Certain citizens of Australia want to register some sort of protest. It has nothing to do with my views. It is a matter of those citizens wanting to register a protest. I submit that the only way in which I can proceed is to give notice of a motion and to proceed with such notice of motion. 
What  Senator Missen  seeks to do is ensurebecause the petition does not comply with Standing Orders he cannot get the  Clerk  s signature on it- that he gets publicity by way of broadcast today by reading a petition which slanders some individual who is named. He is seeking to have the Notice of Motion placed on the Notice Paper. It may or may not come up for consideration. If it does not, it is published in a public document until such time as the Parliament is prorogued. It is unfair to take this advantage. If we accept this notice any senator who supports a petition would be very foolish to present it to the  Clerk  for his signature; he could always seek to present it in the way  Senator Missen  has today to gain extra publicity. We could be establishing a precedent that would be dangerous, a precedent which the Senate must be very hesitant before setting. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources and refer to my speech on the adjournment of the Senate on Wednesday, 7 September in which I referred to the absence of any policy on the re-refining of oil and, in particular, in which I questioned the failure of a senior officer of the Department to take any action for over three months on a report given to him on this subject, despite assurances given in a further answer in July to my question of 31 March 1977 that the Department, 'follows developments in regard to recycling very closely and the whole question is currently being reviewed'. Will the Minister investigate these complaints and make an early statement on the whole question of re-refining of oils? 
I present the following petition from 101 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That it has come to our knowledge that  Mrs Joan  Kirner, a member of the Schools Commission, has been subjected to grossly unfair and unfounded criticism for carrying out her duties as a member of that Commission. 
That this criticism has been aimed at forcing  Mrs Kirner  to remain silent when we believe it is her duty to speak out. 
That  Mrs Kirner  has the complete confidence of the Australian Council of State School Organisations which body she represents, as well as that of your humble petitioners. 
We therefore ask that the Government and the Minister for Education take notice of the splendid work done by  Mrs Joan  Kirner in her capacity as part-time member of the Schools Commission. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Science. I refer to studies undertaken, as reported in the  Natural Resources Journal  of January 1977, which conclude that the utilisation of Antarctic icebergs as a fresh water source is a technical and economic proposition and is environmentally acceptable. In view of the tremendous productivity that could result from the use of such vast amounts of fresh water in arid and semi-arid regions of Australia, are any studies or projects being considered to utilise Antarctic waters in Australia? 

 -Mr President, I bring up the fifteenth report from the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. The seasonally adjusted figures just released by the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development of the number of housing loan approvals for the period June 1976 to June 1977 demonstrate a strong growth in the number of loans transacted by permanent building societies whilst concurrently the trading and savings banks have experienced zero or negative rates of growth in loan approvals. In view of the fact that building societies charge higher interest rates and therefore may be less attractive to borrowers, is the growth of the influence of these financing institutions a result of the tight availability of funds from the trading and savings banks due to the heavy controls that the Reserve Bank of Australia and the Government exercise over the banks? Is it true that the housing sector and home buyers are suffering accordingly and that recovery in the housing industry is being retarded? Will the Government spread its control more evenly over all financial and monetary institutions and thus allow a greater availability of housing funds from banks at lower interest rates? 
It will be surprising to some people who are listening to know that this afternoon we are debating a matter of urgency raised by the Opposition concerning the Fraser Government's incompetence in managing the economy. For once, members of the Opposition have not given us the benefit of much in the way of particulars in their motion as they sometimes do. We have had a long moan this afternoon by way of a collection of comments, many of which we have heard before. We have heard today some extraordinary things from the Opposition. I do not know which of the three witches stirring the cauldron- Whitlam, Hayden and Hurford- has dreamed up the series of questions and the attacks which have been made on the financial situation in this country and on the state of our money. Today we have heard disgraceful statements and a series of questions. There is no doubt that it is a campaign. The Labor Opposition today does not want to see this country come out of its slump. It does not want to see us recover. It hopes to gain some political benefit from misery in this community. It is to the Opposition's disgrace that it has undertaken this campaign. 
In the debate today we have heard a number of speakers, two of whom I thought did merely a dummy run on behalf of the Opposition. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  spoke briefly and contributed little. He appeared to want to get out of the road of the incoming batsmen. He suggested in the course of his speech that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had said recently that we had come to the end of the line in cuts. I ask honourable senators to note the use of the words 'to the end of the line'. Those words are said to suggest that we have reached a stage where something worse is to happen; that we have done the last thing we can do. However, we know that the Prime Minister's statements of recent days have indicated that we have reached a situation in which we do not need to have further cuts. It is an entirely different connotation. Some progress is now being seen in the recovery of the economy, and no further reductions are needed. 
The other  speaker  whom I would call a lightweight contributor to this debate was  Senator Walsh.  We are thankful when he speaks briefly and when he does not give us too long to consider what he is saying.  Senator Walsh's  main complaint today seemed to be that the investment allowance which this Government introduced had not cost in the region of $650m but had cost only about $450m. Yet at the same time he objects strongly to the investment allowance. He apparently believes that it should not be brought in at all and that it should not cost the country anything. He is complaining because the investment allowance cost less than $650m. This indicates that the investment allowance has not been used as much as we hoped. Certainly the recovery is not as quick as we would like. Nonetheless, the very considerable amount of $450 m has been used. It has been possible for people in this country to buy and use new equipment. Therefore, they will be in a position to compete better in the world and to sell our products overseas. It is very difficult to find the reason for  Senator Walsh's  complaint and the logic of his two positions. He finished his speech by telling us that he would give us some gratuitous advice. I must say that this is one area where inflation has not caught up with  Senator Walsh. His  advice is worth just as much today as it was 2 years ago- nothing. I am glad to see that there has been no increases in that cost. 
Let me come to the heavyweight contribution today from  Senator Douglas  McClelland. I say heavyweight' because he was so filled with assertions and remarks that I think they need some reply in this debate. When an honourable senators stands before this chamber and says that no one can claim any achievement by this Government, it rather takes one's breath away. Of course speakers on this side of the House have indicated today the types of things which we claim have been of great value in an economic sensethe investment allowance, the various changes in the law and the family allowance which has been a contribution to expenditure by - 
-You have got that,  Senator. It  has been of tremendous value and has amounted to a great social change in this community. That, I think, is terribly important. We have also instituted tax reforms, including the recent tax changes announced in the Budget, the results of which will be seen from February 1978 when they come into effect. This will provide a great incentive to people in this country to work. They will not see any increase in their wages taken away because their increased salary has put them into another tax bracket. They will have an incentive to work and earn a little bit more. These are great achievements. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland told us that he has noticed rising panic gripping back benchers. I assume he was referring to back benchers on this side of the House; not on the other side. I can understand there being panic and frustration on the other side of the chamber, because, despite the claims honourable senators opposite make against this Government, they seem to make very little progress. We on this side of the chamber see no such signs. I see plenty of signs of Government back benchers scrutinising legislation and showing an eagerness for improvement in this country's future, but there is no sign of panic on this side of the chamber.  Senator Douglas  McClelland went on to say that the Government was blind to the fact that the public did not trust it and that people were saving for the times ahead. 
I really would not have thought that Opposition senators would talk too much about trust. Surely they realise that it was the absence of trust that brought their government down. It was the absence of trust that nearly brought down this country's economy; it was the absence of trust on the part of businessmen who found that their profits were slashed and that there was no possibility of earning a decent profit. There was nothing for the people in the country who found their efforts over generations were ruined. The lack of trust in the Labor Government was the thing which brought us difficulty in this country. Trust is not a matter which this Opposition should talk about. 
Then, of course,  Senator Douglas  McClelland said that the tax changes discriminated against low and medium income earners. What an amazing statement! The increase in the exemptions for low income earners and the fact that they can proceed to a higher income without going into increased tax brackets are things I have already mentioned.  Senator Douglas  McClelland went on to ask: If inflation has fallen by 7 per cent, how does the Government explain an increase of 25 per cent in unemployment? He knows that unemployment is a problem in this community and that it will be for some time. He knows that the Government has chosen to tackle inflation as the No. 1 enemy of this country. It is the enemy which stops us from selling our products abroad. It is the major enemy of this country. 
Of course we are not ignoring unemployment. The whole Budget is an illustration of the unlimited amounts that may be spent on unemployment schemes. But what we will not do, as we have been sensibly advised in the National Bank Monthly Summary of August 1977, is to go in for short term pump priming of the economy. That journal says: 
In the main we believe the strategy and priorities of the Budget to be correct and responsible insofar as the difficulties that currently beset Australia cannot be overcome by a government engaging in  short  term pump-priming of the economy. 
For the benefit of  Senator Gietzelt,  who spoke of the troubles of the economy, I point out that gross domestic product in 1976-77 grew by 3.4 per cent compared with 2.4 per cent in 1975-76 and 0.6 per cent in 1974-75- the last financial year of the Labor Government. The fact is that the Budget strategies are working. The fact is that what the Government has been aiming to do the last two years it is achieving. However it is not uniform; in some areas the Government's strategy is not working as well as we would have hoped. When  Senator McClelland  tells us that the Australian dollar is under attack, we know that it is under attack by the Australian Labor Party in both Houses of Parliament. We know that it is this Government which protects it and which will ensure, by the development of its strategies, that the economy will come out of its slump. Today we have heard repetition- nothing new- from honourable senators opposite. We have heard enough grumbling about the situation from Opposition senators, who appear to emerge from their own ambitions which go well beyond any desire for an improvement of the Australian economy. I think we have had quite enough of this. Therefore I move: 
That the question be now put. 

 - Mr President, I moved that the question be now put. 
That the question be now put. 
In speaking to such Motion, - 
That is, an urgency motion-  the mover and the  Senator next  speaking shall not exceed 30 minutes each, and any other  Senator or  the mover in reply shall not exceed 1 S minutes, and every  Senator shall  confine himself to the one subject in respect of which the Motion has been made: Provided that the whole discussion on the subject shall not exceed three hours. 
As the debate on this motion did not commence until twenty minutes to four at least, I suggest that the debate is not due to conclude until twenty minutes to nine this evening. 

 - Mr President, speaking to the point of order, before I resumed my seat I moved that the question be now put, as my colleagues will confirm. 
That the question be now put. 
Those of that opinion say aye, to the contrary no. I think the ayes have it. 
Opposition senators- The noes have it. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to a report in the  Age  of 7 September 1977 which details some confusion regarding the access of International Red Cross to East Timor. Is the Minister aware that the return of International Red Cross is delayed by reason of the failure of the Indonesian Government to approve the conditions for entry? Has the Minister made any recent representations to the Indonesian Government on the subject and can the Minister disclose any information as to when the International Red Cross will be allowed access to East Timor? 
-by leave-I should like to endorse what has just been said by  Senator Devitt.  It seems to me that this is a very appropriate time to raise the matter. This is the sort of report in respect of which one would expect there to be differentiation. A lot of reports come in here which are not going to be debated at any stage at all but there are others that have a public interest at the time when they come in. Maybe some notice of them could be given to honourable senators a day or so in advance so that there could be a short and restricted debate on the subject of interest. So often we see reports or masses of reports recorded on the Notice Paper on which senators have sought leave to continue their remarks and which are later wiped off the Notice Paper. Perhaps there is no interest in reviving them or no time to do so in the busy program towards the end of the session. It seems to me that what has been suggested by  Senator Devitt  ought to be very carefully considered. It would make for more appropriate debate on matters currently of interest. I agree with him that often we have debates here which regurgitate an earlier situation. A debate on a Bill is often used as an excuse for raising some completely different subject. I think that debates which were directed shortly to current reports like this one would be more useful to the Senate and to the community. We would be assured of having some discussion of a particular subject at the relevant time. I support  Senator Devitt  and hope that something will be done about the situation. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. I refer to the facts that the 1976-77 appropriation for the Institute of Family Studies, to be set up under the terms of the Family Law Act 1975, was almost entirely unspent in that financial year and that the proposed appropriation for 1977-78 has been reduced from $80,000 to $50,000. Will the Minister inform the Senate what steps have been taken to secure the appointment of a Director and suitable staff for the proposed Institute and to enable it to perform the important duties assigned to it by the Family Law Act? 
I join with  Senator Coleman  in discussing this matter tonight. Perhaps I will deal more specifically with the situation where people are going on trial within a few days time and where the processes are not those that we understand in any way in this country as being fit processes for dealing with persons. They do not accord with human rights as we understand them. In recent times I have had the opportunity of having discussions with a number of people who are in exile from Thailand and who are concerned at the situation which developed. Among those people is  Dr Puey  Ungphakorn, a very eminent man who was an adviser to the last democratic government and who was the rector of Thammasat University when the revolution took place and when the dictatorship took effect in Thailand last year. I believe it must be appreciated that the rule of law as we understand it and the idea that people are dealt with by the normal courts which deal with criminal matters does not apply in Thailand. Honourable senators will see this when they realise that this trial is being conducted in a military court and not in an ordinary criminal court. The effect of that is, of course, that persons are not entitled to have any legal representation whatsoever in the court. It is not an open court in the normal sense of the word. The trial is being conducted on the third floor of a building and persons will not be able to observe what is taking place. The actual order of the National Administrative Reforms Council which now runs the country reads in part: 
All cases involving charges of offences against the antiCommunist Act B.E.2495, irrespective of with or without the addition of any other charge, and irrespective of whether the alleged offender is already in custody on the day, or before or after the day on which this Order is issued, shall be under the jurisdiction of the military court. This is to be irrespective of whether the offence has been committed on the day, or before or after the day on which mann law dated the 6th of October . . . is proclaimed. 
In other words, after the event martial law is prescribed. These charges would have been ward in the ordinary criminal court but for the state which the country is now in. As a result of that, these people go on trial without representation. Fortunately, a number of people will be endeavouring to observe the trials as best they can. Among them is  Mr Peter  McMullin, a fine young lawyer from Victoria who is  president  of the young lawyers association of Victoria. He will be proceeding, as he has done on other occasions, to Thailand to witness this series of trials. I have been in touch with the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  about this matter. I hope that we will give to  Mr McMullin  through our Embassy in Thailand every facility to assist him to observe this trial and, to the extent we can, to ensure that such trials will be conducted at least as reasonably openly as possible in the very awkward circumstances in which these people without representation find themselves. 
The fact that these sorts of things have been going on has been made clear by many organisations which have protested to the Thai Government. They are described in a book which has been produced by the International Campaign for the Release of Political Prisoners in Thailand. Among them was the complaint of Amnesty International. Our parliamentary group has not had the opportunity to meet and discuss this matter, and the urgency of the situation therefore makes it the reason why members of the Amnesty organisation in the Senate bring this matter forward tonight. As early as April this year Amnesty made an appeal to the Prime Minister of Thailand and expressed concern at the continued detention without trial of political prisoners. In its appeal to the Thai Prime Minister Amnesty International asked for an immediate amnesty for all untried political prisoners, knowing that six months had passed since the coup of 6 October 1976, following which thousands of people were arrested. Amnesty International also asked that all those whom the government intended to bring to trial should be released on bail pending trial. Amnesty's information indicated that about 8,000 people were arrested in Bangkok and the provinces following the October coup. A substantial number have been released but more than 1,500 people still remain in prison. None of them have been brought to trial. Now at last some are being brought to trial on a variety of charges. 
The same type of complaint has been made by other organisations including the Amnesty organisation of the United States of America which has called upon the  President  of the United States and requested that he should end aid to the military junta in Thailand; prevent any military or economic aid going from the United States to the Thai Government. I think these are reasonable requests when one takes into account that a country that was practising democracy for some years finds itself in the position where democracy is overthrown with no possibility of having it restored in the near future. I think it would be useful if I mention the fact that the United States House of Representatives Committee on International Relations has been meeting. It met on 30 June under the chairmanship of  Mr Donald  M. Fraser, who is well known to honourable senators as a leading spokesman for human rights. That Committee considered the human rights situation in Thailand and its effect on the policies of the United States Government.  Mr Robert  Oakley, the  Deputy  Assistant Secretary of the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, gave evidence. From the account which I have it is very clear that he was prepared to excuse and apologise for the behaviour of the Thai Government.  Dr Puey  Ungphakorn also gave evidence on this occasion. The clash between them, as described in this commentary, was, I think, very interesting. The commentary states: 

 Dr Puey's and Secretary Oakley's testimony differed in regard to probable upcoming trials of persons arrested after the October coup. Oakley had said that ' In response to an expression of concern by our Embassy in Bangkok, the Thai Government has assured us that normal Thai legal procedures will be followed for those brought to trial,' approximately 74 detainees. 
That, of course, has not happened. It is not the normal system at all. It is military justice. The commentary continues: 
Summary justice . . . will not be employed,' reported the State Department official.  Dr Puey  warned that even the best people in your Embassy could be deceived by the Bangkok government, however. 'When the military court tries them, these 74 accused will not be allowed any legal representation; nor, if they are sentenced, is there any opportunity of appeal. 'the International Commission of Jurists in Geneva revealed on June 28 that the arrest and trial procedures of the Thai political prisoners does amount to summary justice, and asked that a West German lawyer familiar with civilian Thai law attend the future trials as an observer. 
At the present time there are only 18 people on trial, not the 74 originally accused. I do not know what will happen to some of the others. The commentary continues: 

 Dr Puey claimed, however, that there are an estimated 2,000 people 'still detained all over the kingdom, including many Buddists monks, some of them having been summarily executed by their gaolers'. In an appendix to his statement there was a written affidavit describing 'Thai tiger cages ' at a detention center run by Special Branch Division 6 Police on 
Setrsiri Road, Dusit District, Bangkok. According to this affidavit there are 142 prisoners, 60 of them women, held in solitary confinement in cells l.S meters long, one meter wide and just over one meter high. The prisoners cannot lie down fully outstretched nor stand upright; they are allowed out of their cells once a month for a two-hour period. 
It is very clear that not only are prisoners being tried in Thailand under very bad circumstances which give no opportunity for a proper defence, but also the prisoners themselves who are kept confined are suffering considerably. I think we, as members of a community such as this, should be concerned, particularly when we are asked to give aid to the Government and the people of Thailand. It is one thing to give aid which provides economic assistance and helps people, irrespective of politics or of government. From my discussions with one of the leading Thai refugees in Australia,  Dr Apichai  Puntasen, it is clear to those who are here that the accelerated rural development program is not all that it may seem and that it has a psychological warfare basis. I think we must be very careful in this country when we give aid. I think we have already given considerable aid in this way. We must be very concerned that we do not give aid in circumstances where it could be used for the suppression and oppression of the people of a country by a military dictatorship. I therefore join with  Senator Coleman  in saying that I believe that these factors should be very seriously considered by the people of Australia and that we should raise our voices where we can to try to ensure that the people in that country have the proper right of trial even if we cannot do very much about their democracy at the present time. For those reasons I join with  Senator Coleman  in bringing this matter to the notice of the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that in the recently issued 1977 Melbourne Telephone Directory, no telephone numbers are given for the Broadcasting Tribunal in Melbourne, nor is there any direct reference to ways in which the public can complain about television or radio programs or in which they can alert the Tribunal to deficiencies? What action does the Minister intend to take to promote better communications between concerned members of the public and the Tribunal? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
1 ) How many baby harp seal skins were imported into Australia in the year 1975-76. 
What was the value of these skins. 
3 ) From what countries were they imported. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, without notice, on 6 September 1977: 
I refer to a Press release issued by the Ethnic Communities Council of Victoria alleging that a confidential interdepartmental report on ethnic broadcasting formed the basis of the Government's decision to terminate broadcasting by radio station 3ZZ. Does that report in fact exist? Was the report used as the basis for the Government's decision? Can the report be made available to members of parliament? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I refer to the report in the Melbourne  Age  of 26 September 1977 which details the problems being experienced by Aborigines in Queensland, including infringements of basic human rights. Is it true, as alleged in the report, that the Queensland Government is ignoring Federal laws, specifically the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act of 1975? Is it also true, as alleged, that it is almost impossible at present for the Aboriginal Legal Service to represent all defendants? Can the Minister assure the Senate that action will be taken to ensure that contravention of Federal laws by the Queensland Government does not continue and that discrimination against Aborigines ceases? 
I am indebted to my colleague,  Senator Devitt,  for the opportunity to speak. I do not propose to canvass the other references which the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs has at present but to content myself with this report and the items in it, one of which has some updated information which I think should be made available to the Senate. When this report was put down in the Senate on 20 April this year I commented on the various matters that the report covered. Some of them, such as the number of annual reports that the Committee had studied and other matters in regard to the Trade Practices Commission, do not call for any further comment at this stage. Two matters arose out of the investigation by the Committee of the annual report of the Australian Law Reform Commission under  Mr Justice  Kirby. One matter which arose from the annual report of 1976 was the problems associated with the implementation of law reform. The Senate subsequently made a reference to the committee covering that item. That matter is under the immediate examination of the Committee. 
The second matter referred to in  Mr Justice  Kirby 's annual report was the preparation of an Australasian digest of proposals for law reform. This is a matter that I think ought to be drawn to the attention of the Senate tonight. The annual report of the Australian Law Reform Commission detailed a history of a particular aim, namely, to collate throughout Australia the various items of law reform over a period. A great deal of work done goes unrecognised. There is also some duplication through the country. This country is not so rich in brains and ideas that it can afford to ignore and not bring to notice those ideas as they come forward. Some of them are made in comments by judges. Others are made in learned articles. Still others are to be found possibly in statements made in the Parliament. They might indicate reforms that ought to be kept closely under attention. 
The matter goes back to about 1970 when this proposal for a digest on law reform was advanced. I will not detail the early history of it but in February 1970 the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General wanted to establish this official list of work being done on law reform. After the establishment of the Australian Law Reform Commission the same Standing Committee of Attorneys-General in 1976 made the Commission responsible for this compilation and distribution of the official list of information about activities of law reform agencies. That list was to date from 1 January 1976. The work was undertaken by the Law Reform Commission. Quite a considerable amount of work has been done in getting the material together. The annual report to which I have referred pointed out that there had been before that no organised national attempt to collect these ideas. It was stated that a more wasteful use of highly paid legal talent could not be imagined or a system better designed to promote lawyers' indifference to the inequities and injustices of the legal system could scarcely be designed. These points have been made many times over. 
The progress on the digest proceeded until in the annual report of 1976  Mr Justice  Kirby pointed out that the great bulk of the work on it had been completed and the manuscript was then awaiting publication. That was where difficulty came about. It did not appear to be a manuscript which it would be economic or profitable to print privately. Great difficulty was encountered in trying to find someone who would publish it. The Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs wrote to  Mr Justice  Kirby. On 1 March 1977 he informed us that the digest had not yet been published. The manuscript had been then standing for the better part of a year and only needed certain work before it could be published finally. The problem was finance. The Committee in this report finally recommended that if the Commission was unable to find a publisher for the digest, the Government should provide the Commission with funds sufficient to enable it to publish the digest and update it at regular intervals. It is important that it should be not only produced once but also revised constantly so that it is useful to all people. 
I think it is significant for the Senate to realise that since that report has been made, a clear arrangement has been made for the publishing of this digest. The Australian Government Publishing Service has now agreed to publish the digest, although the Law Reform Commission has had to provide part of the funds from its own budget. That is clearly going to be done. Unfortunately, there is another side to the picture. The Law 
Reform Commission had requested the Public Service Board to allocate two more staff positions to the Commission in order to produce the digest speedily. It is important that the digest should be published at an early date and be worked on regularly. Unfortunately, the Public Service Board has rejected this request. When one bears in mind that since this request four different additional matters have been referred to the Australian Law Reform Commission for its intensive investigation, one will appreciate that unfortunately the digest has had to be given a much lower priority than the Commission would like. The Commission now anticipates the publication date will be August 1978. That is it will be the best part of nine months from now before it is seen. When one bears in mind also that the work has been practically finished for already a year or more, I think that this is regrettable. I hope the Public Service Board might reconsider this matter so that, having overcome what appeared to be the main problem of having the digest published, having the Australian Government Publishing Service agree to this, we can ensure that it is published and kept up to date, and therefore achieve the real benefit of having a digest for the whole of Australia. 
I think that they are the only matters I wanted to bring before the Senate. I believe that they are important and I hope that the Government and the Public Service Board will take note of these matters so that we can gain the most benefit from this Australasian digest. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Is the Attorney-General aware that since the consolidated Commonwealth statutes were published in 1973 no annual volume of Acts passed in succeeding years has been published? Are there also considerable delays in the reprinting of amended statutes? Does the Attorney-General agree that the absence of annual volumes and reprints is a cause of considerable inconvenience and obstruction to the legal profession and to other sections of the community? Will the Minister inform the Senate what plans are in hand to update the publishing and increase the availability of the annual Acts of the Parliament and the reprints of amended Acts? 
-I remind the Senate that we are talking about the Budget Papers of 1977. We are not talking about the South Australian Budget. We heard for some considerable time about the South Australian problems. We are talking about the Budget, and this is where, I am afraid,  Senator McLaren  came to such grief. He followed the same old familiar pattern and said that apparently this side of the chamber does not like the working class and that  Senator McLaren's  side of the chamber defends it. 
-We do, do we? We will not get many eggs from  Senator McLaren  these days- although he may drop an occasional brick. What this Government does will be to the greatest protection and the continuing protection of the working people of this country who were sent to near disaster by the operations of a previous government, allegedly but not really, the government of the working people. 
Let me in a few words make reference to one of the few remarks made by  Senator McLaren  about the Budget. He took the trouble to quote from page 39 of Budget Paper No. 1. He used a little selective quotation to suggest that in some areas there are reductions in payments this year. He carefully jumped from one item to another. He left out such items as education, where the increase this year is $2 10m, and health, where the increase this year is $27 lm. He cited figures in relation to housing which is the fifth item on the list but left out item four which deals with social security and welfare, the expenditure on which jumped this year by $8 17m. If honourable senators look at the two years during which this Government has been in office they will see that the total Budget allocation- I am comparing this with the Hayden Budget- for social security and welfare has risen by $2, 170m. When one considers what this Government has been doing in its period in office in increasing family allowances, in helping people with large families, in helping people who are really in need and in helping people to pay rent and provide them with housing and so forth, one realises the enormous increases. 
-Senator McLaren left that out on purpose. 
-Senator McLaren says that he spoke about this on Thursday. He speaks so often in this Parliament that one cannot follow every speech he makes. I think that the honourable senator when referring to that Budget Paper could draw attention to the enormous increases that have come under this Government and which are substantially to the benefit of the working people of this country. I do not want to say very much more about the speech of  Senator McLaren  who has retired in confusion. 
I want to point out one thing about the Budget. Before the Budget was delivered there were all kinds of gloomy prognostications as to what would be cut. All these things of course did not come to pass. It is worth while in view of the fact that the debate on the Budget has taken some time to point out that before the Budget- this is to give one example- there was a reference that the interpreter services for immigrants were to be cut severely. One newspaper, which for these purposes will remain anonymous, went on to say that the interpreter service for immigrants was to be diminished. The article continued: 
Social Security Department sources deny that the reduction will be as much as 75 per cent as feared; they do not deny that cuts are imminent. 
They did not say they would be cut either. When the Budget came down- I use this as one particular example- there were increases. In a statement after the introduction of the Budget,  Senator Guilfoyle  said: 
The Government has increased funds for the telephone interpreter service. The total allocation is in excess o m, which is more than $150,000 above the 1976-77 expenditure. The rumours recently published suggesting that the Government is abandoning the telephone interpreter service have no foundation. 
That is just one example. Taking the example of this very important area in regard to migrants a step further, an announcement was then made by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, the Honourable Michael MacKellar, on the establishment of a new body to boost translating and interpreting. A Press release at that time stated: 
The setting up of a body to control the training and accreditation of translators and interpreters in Australia would give the profession a major boost. 
The Minister . . . said this today when he announced the formation of the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters. 
A national body of this kind will ensure that Australia's translating and interpreting will match world standards. 
Taking just that one example, which relates to an area in which gloomy ideas were spread before the Budget, we find that the Budget has in fact moved forward and the Government has moved on in practical terms to assist migrants. 
The basic thrust of this Budget is a useful one. It is consistent with last year's Budget and it tackles the problems which have been with us for some time and which need the concentration of government. One ought to remind the Senate that at the beginning of his Budget Speech the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said: 
. I reaffirm the Government's basic objectives. 
Our first goal is to maintain the underlying trend to lower inflation. 
Our second goal, which is dependent upon the achievement of the first, is to promote moderate and noninflationary growth in order to create jobs and reduce unemployment. 
This Budget will move Australia further towards achieving those goals, and in so doing, it will build on the foundations laid by last year's Budget. 
I think that it can rightly be said that the Budget, and its main attributes, follow in that line while concentrating on the first objective of getting down the level of inflation, which is so ruinous to us in international terms, in terms of our trade and in terms of jobs which can be available for people in this country. Other measures that are contained in this Budget, including the important initiatives in regard to tax reform, are of vital importance to this country. The effects of those measures will be seen in a long term way. 
It has been said by honourable senators op- posite during the last week or so, and even today y  Senator McLaren,  that there is to be an election and that this is an election Budget. Statements of that sort have been made. I do not see the Budget in such terms. I see its basic thrust and its basic changes as being ones that will take some little time to develop. The income tax measure is an example. It is to operate from 
February of next year. I know that some people and organisations, including the  Australian  in a recent editorial, have suggested that perhaps the tax reforms ought to operate from an earlier date. Whether that can be done is another matter. The value of the incentive that the income tax changes will bring about is one that obviously will operate into the new year and will be of great value to this country. 
Honourable senators opposite constantly tell us that there is to be an election this year. I think  Senator Mulvihill  put it in the terms of our being on the verge of a law and order election. We do not have elections in Australia in that sense. Every election in this country in recent times basically has been about the government of the country, about the running of the economy and about those who are most able to develop the country. We have had elections that perhaps were thought would be elections on other issues, but basically the Australian people are concerned with what group of men and women is best capable of continuing to operate the economy of this country. I put aside the suggestions about an early election as quite useless rumours. I think that they are as useless as the idea that we should have a referendum to determine a matter on which a policy has been announced- the uranium issue. The idea is that we should have premature votes on subjects which are unnecessary and which are polarising so far as the community is concerned. 
I draw attention again to the editorial that I mentioned in the  Australian  of 4 October 1977. At the same time as it made a suggestion in regard to income tax it had other things to say that I think are worth recording and worth thinking about. The editorial, which was a signed editorial and which appeared on the front page of the  Australian,  went on to say: 
We also need an end to the damaging speculation about an early election. To have a House of Representatives election in December just as we are beginning to get inflation down would bring about a deep, self-inflicted wound. A lot of blood would be left on the floor. We would be in for a bout of self-recrimination in which half the politicians would be trying to tell the country and the rest of the world that Australia is in a disastrous state. This at a time when we are trying to woo overseas investment to get employmentproducing projects off the ground. 
Never have we been so much in need of leadership at all levels. The Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  should end the election speculation now and get on with the job of improving the economy. The ACTU  President, Mr Hawke,  should show leadership by trying to end damaging industrial disputes that are reducing job opportunities and wasting millions of dollars. The Leader-designate of the Federal Opposition,  Mr Hayden,  should stop bad-mouthing the economy and the currency. 
I suggest that those words, which are a balanced criticism, ought to be carefully considered by all in this country. There is no doubt that there is an enormous amount of work to be done. I think that those on this side of the Parliament who were elected to improve the economy and to do a job ought to get on with it. Many of us went up and down the countryside in May of this year arguing in the referendum campaign against the highly undesirable situation whereby governments and parliaments in the past have come to an early end because of the need to bring the two Houses together in an election. This nas happened on a number of occasions over the years. I think that it is fairly undesirable insofar as the community is concerned. I think that the community expects to have lengthy Parliaments and expects governments at times to have to carry out unpleasant tasks in putting the economy into proper shape. I was also interested to read certain comments by  Mr Whitlam  in the  Age  of this day about election speculation.  Mr Whitlam  said that if he were in  Mr Fraser's  place- thank goodness he is not- he would kill the election speculation.  Mr Whitlam  went on to say: 
This is bad for everyone- this constant talk. 
Nobody is more of an expert on constant talk than  Mr Whitlam.  He went on to say: 
It's like the speculation on the value of the dollar. 
I found that last remark to be very amusing and perhaps even sad. We in this chamber know, as do the members of the other House, that there has been a constant hammering away at the value of the dollar by members of the Opposition from the Leader of the Opposition down and that there have been constant attacks upon the credit- worthiness of this country and the borrowing strength of this country.  Mr Whitlam  is at least right in saying that those things should come to an end. I believe that results will be seen from this Budget as time goes on. I hope that there will be plenty of opportunity to do so. I do not think that we ought to take too much notice of what  Mr Whitlam  has to say. In his case it is like Satan reproving sin when he talks in the terms that I have quoted. But I think it is desirable that we should have less of the election fever that has been and is around the place and that we should concentrate on developing the courage of industry and the courage of those people who alone can make the future of this country successful in an economic sense. 
I draw the attention of honourable senators also to the comments made by the National Bank in its monthly summary of August 1977 about the Budget and the policies that it expresses. The Bank states: 
Reaction to the 1977-78 Australian Budget has been mixed, but few would disagree that it represents a continuation and consolidation of the policies adopted during the past two years. The prime objectives remain those of reducing the demands of the government sector on the nation's economic and financial resources, reversing the imbalances which have previously developed between business profits and labour costs and combating inflation. The problem of unemployment is not overlooked, but it is felt that any significant and lasting improvement in this area can best be achieved through the restoration of a stable economic environment. In other words the Budget, unlike many of its predecessors, focuses on a longer term horizon. 
In the main we believe the strategy and priorities of the Budget to be correct and responsible insofar as the difficulties that currently beset Australia cannot be overcome by a government engaged in short term pump-priming of the economy. 
I believe that is a good summary of the general effectiveness of the Budget. 
I turn to what is unquestionably the greatest problem outside the long term objectives in respect to inflation and the work that is being done there. I refer to the very great problem of unemployment, which continues to cause worry throughout the country. Although this may be a temporary phenomenon, we recognise, and I think the policies which the Government espouses help, that the most crucial area is youth unemployment. People leaving school cannot get a job. Of course, that is a problem that will be with us for a little time. One looks at the Budget and one recognises that very substantial efforts have been made. What is interesting about this area of the Budget is that the Treasurer has said that the Government has made a open-ended commitment. It does not propose to restrict the amount of money spent on training programs and developing efforts to overcome unemployment, especially among young people. Under the heading 'Training Programs in the Budget Speech the Treasurer points out that such programs include the recently introduced community youth support scheme, the education program for unemployed youth and the special youth employment training program, all of which are proving their worth. The Government has extended the youth employment training program to young people under 25 years of age. This took effect immediately after it was announced in the Budget. All told, the Budget provides $ 102.7m for employment training programs this year, an increase of 33 per cent over last year. Even that large increase will be surpassed (f it is necessary to do so. 
The Government is obviously conscious of the problem and a great deal of money is being spent. Expenditure on the National Employment and Training scheme has gone from $31m to $54m. There has been a very considerable increase in payments which have gone to local government authorities so that they can make provision for further employment in their areas. I have before me a letter from the Acting Town  Clerk  of Swan Hill in Victoria, an area which I know has a considerable problem. It has had a problem for some dme because of the level of unemployment there. The number of unemployed registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service there is 305, which represents 10.36 per cent of the work force. That is a fairly large percentage and above the national average. The shire council has put to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  proposals which it thinks will be useful in expanding the youth employment training service. It hopes, and I hope, that further efforts may be made in this area to increase employment. One should bear in mind that the payments to local government have gone up by 18 per cent this year. This is an increase well above the rate of inflation. This should assist in developing training programs. 
I believe that some States are doing better than others in the co-operation which they are giving to the Commonwealth Government in improving employment, particularly youth employment. I should like to refer to my own State of Victoria, where I believe the Hamer Government has taken fine initiatives in a co-operative way, particularly in regard to the special youth employment training system.  Mr Hamer,  in a speech he made on 18 September, pointed out that since the Federal Government has widened the scheme by reducing the qualifying period to one month to cope with school leavers, Victoria in last week's Budget doubled its commitment. He further said that the Commonwealth had made the scheme work by making it attractive to employers. Each employer receives a subsidy, which is a far more satisfactory use of Commonwealth funds than paying unemployment benefits. The Victorian Government has taken this up in its own departments and is paying the difference between the Commonwealth subsidy and the award wage. 
He pointed out that in Victoria the number of apprentices has increased very considerably in many trades. In fact, there are more apprentices in training this year in Victoria than ever before in the State's history, namely, some 36,000. The number of new apprenticeships is running 18 per cent ahead of last year. This is an interesting example of co-operation between Victoria and the Commonwealth doing something very practical to increase apprenticeships not only because they give employment but because this country is short of trained people. Statistics provided by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  show that the various categories of people who will be admitted to this country comprise mainly people with training. We are short of tradesmen here. Obviously an increase in apprenticeships is desirable not only for the present purpose of relieving youth unemployment but for the long term purposes of this country.  Mr Hamer  drew attention to another program called the work experience program instituted by his Government. Through the co-operation of 226 schools and more than 5,500 employers, almost 11,500 students gained work experience last year. That has given youths an opportunity to be of some value to an employer because they are getting work experience before they actually leave school. 
One of my colleagues in the State Parliament,  Mr Morris  Williams, the member for Doncaster, issued a detailed Press statement in which he drew attention to the area he represents, where the student work experience program has been a great success. He says that more than 11,500 students have found vacation jobs. He points out that at one school, Templestowe Technical School, the number of students in work experience programs has doubled to more than 120 this year. He says that Victoria is leading the field in work experience and providing a model for similar schemes in other States. I hope we will see more of this co-operation and that these sorts of experiences will be useful. I hope that such programs will be used by other States. 
On this subject of unemployment and the concern it has caused, I make a reference to the report on unemployment benefits which was brought down by  Dr David  Myers early this year. I know that one of its recommendations in respect of the payment of unemployment relief was acted on. On the other hand, many other recommendations in the report deserve very deep consideration. I hope that the Government will not be over-impressed by the costs of the scheme, which are considerable but which would be offset by a number of other savings which  Dr Myers  recommended. The philosophy of the report was that he could see a dual role in unemployment benefit administration- to offer a welfare payment to the unemployed while at the same time working to reduce unemployment. The latter part of the scheme involved job creation schemes and counselling the unemployed in an attempt to remove impediments to their employment. A great many problems must be looked into in this way, and I nope that as much as possible of this scheme will be adopted as time goes on. I believe that we will have a very grave social problem in our community if unemployment continues for any great length of time. 
I direct the Senate 's attention to some remarks made in an article by  Dr Geoffrey  Sambell, Anglican Archbishop of Perth, as reported in the  Australian  of 22 August 1977.  Dr Sambell  drew attention to the fact that retraining schemes have some value and said that he did not believe we had tackled retraining yet. He said that in Sweden 2 per cent of the work force was being retrained, whilst in Australia it was 0.2 per cent. With all the schemes we have, we have a long way to go. Sweden, which has a problem of changes in structure needs, which is a problem we have also, has gone further than we have in this regard. The striking figures relating to Sweden might suggest that we have certainly not yet gone as far as we could.  Dr Sambell  went on to point to the great difficulties which are to be found when perhaps both parents are working but a teenage son or daughter is not employed but is drawing unemployment benefits. He stated: 
The reason, of course, is the right of every person to independence. 
He talked about the responsibility which he felt the family should share in and said, I repeat: 
The reason, of course, is the right of every person to independence ... we need to determine a basic philosophy concerning the nuclear family or a society of individuals . . . 1 often ask would one of the parents make way in the employment market for their teenage son or daughter, as there is not room for all. In asking that question, I am not suggesting that automatically the wife should stay home. 
But maybe one parent should- either to care for the younger members of the family and/or to make way for the younger person in the workforce. Suggestions are made that the retirement age should be reduced to 50. 
That may seem a rather revolutionary suggestion. I think we have a long term problem in regard to employment. Whatever happens, I do not think we will easily get back to the situation where there is full employment in this country. I think we must look at other ways whereby people will be able to carry out constructive and useful work in the community, be paid a proper amount by the community and not be in a position where they have to accept payments but feel that they are not contributing to society. 
-I do not think reducing the working week at this stage would help us to be more economic or to be more efficient. I do not think that reducing the working week will help, although that may come in due course. I do not think that we want people to work less. We want people to perform socially valuable work outside the present employments which we know and for which the community will, of course, have to pay. In regard to this area, I believe that we have to recognise that, whilst unemployment is great, it is partially contributed to by the greediness and by the demands which are being made by some sections of the community and, particularly, by some of the extraordinary demands that are made by some union leaders who do not care how many people they put out of work provided that it gives to members of their unions some immediate advantage. As an example, I will refer to a log of claims which I have before me. It has been made by the Federated Furnishing Trades Society of Australasia. It is signed by  Mr Ken  Carr who is, of course, a well known left wing member and important unionist in Victoria. He has put down this claim. It is an extraordinary claim. The amounts are quite staggering. I believe that in the past this union has had some success in getting its way because it deals with a lot of firmssome of which are fairly small- and it has been able to bully into submission firms forced to accept the outrageous demands in the past. I will indicate some of these demands to the Senate now. I think honourable senators will recognise how extraordinary those claims are and will recognise also that they are a danger to the economic situation in this country. Among other things, the Society claims for furniture makers grade A a rate of $1,000 a week- an extraordinary rate. 
There is nothing unusual about that to  Senator Mcintosh. 
-Senator Mcintosh does not think that is unusual but I will refer to some of the other claims to see whether he finds them unusual. To me, that seems to be a very extraordinary amount. I will refer to a glass processor -not grade A or grade Al but grade B. The log of claims is seeking an amount of $650 a week for this category of worker. So it goes on throughout the claims. When one comes to holidays and matters of that sort, one finds another set of extraordinary - 
I am quite happy for  Senator Wriedt  to look to examine this document later. He might drool at the suggestions. He might want to get out of the Senate and become employed in the furnishing trades. When the log of claims deals with overtime, it states: 
All time worked outside ordinary hours of a day or shift shall be overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of quadruple time. 
That is four times the normal rate. It continues: 
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-clause (a) of this clause all work performed on days other than ordinary working days shall be paid for quintuple ordinary time. 
That is five time the normal rate. That is pretty good going when one considers what the normal rate will be. In this Parliament, we may think that the rate payable for meals would be an ordinary figure but it is not. When referring to mealtime, the log of claims states: 
An employee required to work overtime shall be paid an allowance of $20.00 for each meal taken during such period of overtime. 
That will buy a lot of sandwiches. I think it would be a pretty heavy meal for them. I turn now to the claims in connection with annual leave. It states: 
All employees after 12 months service- 
That is a long period of service- with an employer shall be granted 10 weeks annual leave and employees with five years service shall receive IS weeks leave. 
That is a considerable part of the year taken up with leave. It has been calculated by people who have read this document and worked out the figures that to employ a normal glass cutter under the award and under the claims that their union has made would cost $65 an hour. What expensive glass that must be! Is it any wonder that claims like this, if they were to succeed, would help to put people out of business. These are the forms of idiocy which are to be found now in this country by people who are putting other people out of a job by many of their excessive claims. 
I turn now to other matters. One naturally reads the Budget and notes, perhaps with some concern, areas in which one would like to see an increase in expenditure. I realise that there is a very large deficit. I remind  Senator McLaren  who spoke earlier in the debate that, despite the increases in the areas about which I have spoken, the deficit has been considerably cut. Therefore, fortunately we are told by the Government that there will be no need for further cuts. There are some matters that are of concern to me. I hope that soon they will be on the receiving end of some further consideration. I am concerned about many of the matters that are involved in city life in this country. I know there are many problems for people in rural areas but I think too little is said and too little defence is offered of the need for improvements in city life. The cities are rowing and the transport problems and so onecome very great. Federal expenditure on the sewerage program this year has been discontinued. I hope that this is only a temporary measure. If in fact we do not continue with the program- I do not suppose that the States themselves will take up the slack- and if no attempt is made to deal with the great backlog in sewerage undertakings we will have other problems. We have problems of pollution in the rivers and other troubles as the cities grow. I hope that this is only a temporary setback and that we will be able to assist m this area in the future. I note that despite some of the representations which honourable senators on this side of the chamber made during the year no further contribution was made by the Government to the Australian Assistance Plan or to any alternative program that might have developed. I think the AAP, which was supported, of course, on this side of the chamber for a number of years, did a great deal to increase community awareness and interest. I think it was a most valuable program. Fortunately, in my State of Victoria, there has been created in its place a family and community services program which is now getting under way. 
It was created, of course, by the Hamer Government in Victoria.  Mr Brian  Dixon, the Minister for Social Welfare, has been most zealous in promoting this program and seeing that it gets under way. This year, about $2m is to be spent on developing and expanding in a decentralised way and working with local government, while enabling people in voluntary organisations to be elected to regional councils and to be active in the determination of expenditure on various family and community projects. I think that is desirable. I hope it will stand as a good example to other States. I hope that, in due course, the Federal Government- of course, the Federal Government still has many responsibilities and programs with which it is concernedwill help Victoria and other States in the development of these programs. 
I note with some regret the vast reduction in the expenditure for the ambitious AlburyWodonga scheme. I realise that, in the past, some mistakes have been made and over-buying of land has occurred. Having seen the progress and having talked about it, I believe that the development of Albury-Wodonga should go ahead as quickly as possible. I am sorry to see that reduction. I hope that there will be opportunities later to increase the speed of development and to encourage more industries to move into that area. Another matter which I regret is that single fathers have not gained recognition in this Budget. I know that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has been very active and zealous in promoting this cause. 
-I do not suppose that any of us succeed in everything and we do not always succeed at the earliest possible time we would like, but this matter is one of basic injustice and I hope that it will not be long before a just solution is arrived at. 
I want to say a word about education, although basically I am not speaking on that subject. Day after day we hear complaints from the Opposition in an attempt to indicate that developments in education are not good, but we know that there has been a continuing and steady development of education. It is regrettable that there has not been an increase of 2 per cent in real terms this year, and perhaps it is unfortunate that the provision of a very just rise to non-government schools coincided with this particular year and therefore made it appear that money was being transferred from one group to the other. That is the way in which it was put by some people, but unquestionably the nongovernment schools have suffered a great deal of disadvantage, and in many places their position is getting worse and worse. 
I think the Government is continuing to carry out a good program, but I hope once again that the turn-around in the economy of this country will make it possible to return to a 2 per cent real increase each year which we have had previously. Let us remember that in this Budget very desirable improvements have been made in the schools area. Let us remember that a record 167,000 students are expected to benefit this year by increased allowances and a relaxation of the means test for Commonwealth assistance schemes. The total estimated spending under the schemes this year is $224.8m, an increase of $37.8m over the amount provided in 1976-77. Let us recall also that the Government has decided to increase the additional boarding allowance for isolated children from $450 to $500 a year in 1978. The Government has also relaxed the means test by increasing the marginally adjusted family income for tertiary education and related schemes and for the additional boarding allowance for isolated children from $8,200 to $8,700 in 1978. Consequently, in a number of important areas, areas where people are greatly endangered in their efforts to obtain education for their children, there have been increases even in a year when the belt-tightening will have to continue. 
It seems to me that in this country, particularly in the focus of the Senate in recent months in the moans that we have heard and the constant negative growling that has gone on from members of the Opposition, there has been no attempt to find the solutions that are needed. That is a matter in which not only the Government but also the Opposition ought to be involved. We find that in the committee system of this Parliament, when we get down to it we manage to find practical and sensible solutions. The rhetoric which goes on in this place without stoppingthere is certainly plenty of inflation in it- has led us to more and more polarisation. If we believe in the democratic system, we have to provide in the community an opportunity to find solutions to the problems of society. Those solutions are not all to be found on one side. Wisdom can be found on both sides. We must find those solutions if we are not to fall to the dangers to which Britain has fallen to some extent, and I am not one of those people who strongly criticise the British. I am a great admirer of the British people and I wish them every success. With the assistance it is getting from the North Sea oil, I hope that Britain will come back even further. 
They may show us the way, as my colleague says. I want to refer very briefly to an article which appeared in  Quadrant  in July this year. It is entitled 'The British Form of Decline ' and was written by Stephen Hasseler, who is a Labour member of the House of Commons. The basis of his argument is an attack on what he describes as the socialist generation which in Britain has set out to damage and not to support the development of Britain. The article states: 
So, Britain's 'Socialist Generation', having wreaked so much havoc at home by its passion for levelling, its search for power and by its upper class guilt, ends up by blurring the historical distinction between social democracy and marxism. 
He goes on to point out the strength which exists in the Labour Party today, and continues:  . . if the representative system is to survive then we can no longer order our politics so that those of us who share basic under-lying assumptions about freedoms, about the supremacy of the individual over the state, continuously light each other in essentially mock adversorial political battles ... We must also have the courage to call a halt to the increasing growth of those institutions, the state, the unions, the bureaucracies which are weakening our resistance to incursions on liberty. 
If we can do this then the issues which still divide all free peoples whether they be conservatives, liberals or social democrats will become increasingly narrow and the gulf which separates us from the unfree slave societies all the more apparent. 
We have to recognise that we are fighting battles and that unfortunately there are growing slave societies in this world. In fact it is our duty not to seek constantly for areas of polarisation and difference but to try to do something constructive. We have not heard so far in this debate a 
Seat deal of constructive suggestion from the Opposition. There is a gloomy opposition amendment before the Senate which complains that the Budget is going to intensify and prolong the recession, increase unemployment, have little impact on inflation, make regressive changes in the tax system- that is a curious one- and reduce living standards. Those are five ridiculous propositions, but it will be noted that they are five completely negative propositions. No practical suggestion has been put forward in the amendment. I urge the Opposition during the remaining stages of the debate on the Budget to try to put forward something practical which will be helpful to the Government. The Government represents the people. The people in this country have elected the Government, but the Opposition still has a job to do. It also represents the people. We all represent the people. We all have to find a way out of the economic problems of this country. We should not damage the country with the criticisms we make, and I hope that the Opposition will put forward something better than the negative approach to the Budget it has adopted so far. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the recent report in a document known as  CB News,  reported in the  Australian  of 3 October 1977, which claimed that a state of anarchy exists on the air waves and that licensed CB radio users are paying $25 for a licence and receiving nothing m return. Will the Minister inform the Senate whether those licence fees are being applied to some useful purpose and what law enforcement on unruly radio operators is being carried out? Is the issue of a licence accompanied by a set of guidelines and regulations which govern the use of these radio sets? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce who represents the Minister for Overseas Trade. I refer to the recent address to the United Nations General Assembly by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the  Hon.  Andrew Peacock, wherein he expressed concern at the danger of nations resorting to protectionism in their international trade, and especially referred to countries which are neighbours to Australia and which wish to expand their mutual trade with us. In the light of these statements, what practical steps can the Government take to remove the impediments to increased bilateral trade between Australia and, particularly, South East Asian nations? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer the Minister to the newly published Amnesty International report on Indonesia, which gives details of the relatively unchanging patterns of political imprisonment without trial in Indonesia. Does the Minister agree that the Government of the Republic of Indonesia has moved far too slowly in releasing the political prisoners- totalling up to 100,000- currently held without trial, despite polite but firm representations by other governments friendly with Indonesia? Will the Minister make a statement on this issue in accordance with the Australian Government's expressed support for human rights internationally? 
It is very rare to witness such a disgraceful thing as has occurred today as a result of endeavours by the Opposition- 
-Here come the catcalls. 
That is all right. You need not worry. I do not propose to take 30 minutes to speak on this matter. It does not deserve that much time. It is a waste of the Senate's time and the time of those who are listening to the debate. It is very significant that the person who advances this today is not a senator from Victoria, whose senators one might expect to be concerned with matters relating to that State, but the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt),  who is a Tasmanian and I am sure very familiar with the machiavellian methods of Labor there- one probably better fitted to speak on those aspects than is anyone else. 
We have before us a motion, allegedly of urgency though no urgency has been shown, the subject of which is as follows: 
The implications of certain land dealings in Victoria for federal funding of State activities. 

 Senator Wriedt skirted the border line, with many innuendoes of wrongdoing, of things which he could neither prove nor intended to prove. Apparently he thought that, in the course of his remarks, he could allow a certain amount of dust to fly, hoping that people would believe the allegations. 
The significant and deceptive thing about this motion is that it is not really about Federal funding; indeed, there was barely any reference to it. If it were, one might have heard some reference made to Federal funding in those areas by the Labor Government, about some of its own land purchases and so forth. Perhaps some of my colleagues will deal with that matter, because it is of relevance to Federal funding. What is not relevant is this deceptive motion, which speaks of 'the implications of certain land dealings in Victoria for federal funding . . .' 
We have in Victoria a board of inquiry which the Premier of that State, upon hearing allegations that might suggest wrong doing on the part of government employees or others, appointed and placed under the chairmanship of a former judge of the Supreme Court,  Mr Justice  Gowans, a man of impeccable judgment and long respected in the Victorian community. He alone is m a position to hear all the evidence. As the Premier has said, Ministers against whom allegations or, shall we say, innuendoes have been directed will come before the board and tell it of dealings regarding land purchases in Victoria with which they were concerned. They have that right, just as has any other citizen, to be heard rather than be sneered at in this House or any other House of Parliament, as has been done today by  Senator Wriedt. 
Knowing the wide terms of reference of that board, which I have read to the Senate, one knows that these matters will be properly dealt with in a judicial way in the course of time and after hearing all the evidence; that there will then be a report to the Victorian Government which will be seen by the people of Australia; and that we will then know what the facts are. It is not for  Senator Wriedt  to set himself up as some petty little judge to tell us things that he thinks are facts because he has read them in a newspaper or somewhere else. 
As I have said, the deceptive wording of this motion is such that we should regard it with considerable contempt. It is, of course, quite wrong to prejudge individuals, whether Ministers of the Crown in another State or ordinary citizens, using parliamentary privilege in this way and trying to make stick allegations which, at most, seem to be mere insinuations that have been made in evidence before the board and by certain persons in Victoria. 
One would think that this motion dealt with Federal funding and would have expected to hear something about the way in which such funds had been applied. It was said that the money was distributed through the Housing Commission. Of course, it was not; the money was given to the State Government to distribute. I do not know of any allegations- established here to the satisfaction of this Government or the previous Government- that have suggested misapplication of that money. If there were allegations, one would expect to find them in the report of our Auditor-General, but there we find nothing but references to minor malpractice and mistakes. We find no suggestions of the nature that we have heard of today. 
Today we have a system of co-operative federalism under which the States are more than ever responsible for the allocation of funds. If, in fact, any allegations are established by this inquiryand senators will recall that its terms of reference include the way in which the Housing Commission operates and the making of practical proposals- those facts will be before the Victorian Government and will no doubt be dealt with successfully by it. Certainly, it is not for this House, or for members of the Opposition, who obviously have no particular knowledge that has been revealed to us, to suggest what should be done. 
I do not propose to go into the various snide suggestions that were made by the honourable senator. It is terribly important that we in this Parliament should not allow to go unanswered the attempt to allege that something is not properly being done about the allegations in Victoria The Government of that State has taken the one proper course available to it, that of appointing a board of inquiry with all the powers necessary to investigate these matters and therefore to determine whether there are inefficiencies or other problems associated with land dealings over the years. 
What is significant about this motion is its purpose, and why the Opposition, following its usual practice on Wednesday when the Senate is on the air, has determined to talk about land dealings. After all, this board of inquiry has been going for many months. The land dealings, if those are of concern, have been going on over a period of years. One might ask why on earth the Opposition should want today to raise these particular matters. The purpose, obviously, is to distract attention from the reality of the suffering in the State of Victoria. People in that State know that the power strike continues, know that they are suffering and know that they in their thousands are out of work because of the determination of a small gang of thugs- as they have been properly described by the leaders in Victoria- to have their own way. 
There is not much point in replying to the honourable senator about this because, one might ask, is he an independent type of person in regard to this? Who rules him? Who rules the Australian Labor Party in Victoria? A number of left-wing unions! We know that he is supposed to represent the right wing in Victoria, or some 10 per cent of the membership of the ALP, and that he is in fact here, and can continue to be here, only at the sufferance of the left wing and therefore dare not cross them. 
We have here a judgment to make- a determination as to who rules Victoria, who is going to determine the laws of Victoria, who is going to see that the decisions of tribunals are obeyed. At the moment we see in Victoria not the ALP ruling, or anything like that. We do not see even the unions ruling; we see the shop stewards in, of course, one part in the Latrobe Valley ruling. They are making up their own minds as to what is right, as to what should be paid to their members, and they are not going to accept the verdict of the tribunal, given after hearing all the evidence presented to it. 
It is for this reason, to distract attention from the real suffering of the people of Victoria and the need for this Australian Government and the Victorian Government to use together all the powers available to them to determine that the rule of law shall prevail in Victoria, that people shall be entitled in that State to use the essential services which they need, that this motion has been moved. 
We know of the millions and millions of dollars that have been lost in recent weeks. Such losses will, unfortunately, continue for a while. These are, of course, important matters which concern the public of Victoria and of Australia. We all, wherever we are, suffer as a result of such loss. It is a complete loss to the economy, one which will never be made up. Despite this enormous loss facing the people of Australia, the Opposition has had the nerve to come before us and try to do a double take. It wants to tell us how the board of inquiry ought to operate. 

 Senator Wriedt, perhaps with a couple of acolytes who will follow him today, wants to determine these things and to substitute the subject matter of his motion, while the proceedings are being broadcast, for another matter which is of the greatest importance to the people of Australia. It would be quite wrong for me to go into the details and to try to follow  Senator Wriedt  in the few allegations he has made. It would be just as improper for me to do that as it was for  Senator Wriedt  to make these allegations. It is not my province nor am I in any position to do it. What I want to say to the Parliament briefly is this: We have before us a disgraceful example of an irresponsible Opposition- an Opposition that does not rule itself, of course, and which does not even seem to be ruled by the unions, now. It seems to be ruled by a few people down in the Valley who are determining what shall be the future of the people of Victoria. No government in this country can stand for that. The law must be obeyed and the law must be seen to be capable of standing up to the stresses placed on it. 
These are the matters, that are of the greatest significance to the people of Australia. The people know that in Victoria there is a government which has the integrity and ability to recognise that when there are complaints there ought to be a proper method of investigation- not carried out by some junta, by some little group or by some opposition in the Federal Parliament. It should be carried out by a board of inquiry under a proper and respected man who will investigate these complaints and hear all the evidence. Let that material be out; that is where it should be. Let us not waste the time of the Parliament here by listening to the unsubstantiated allegations we have heard today. I do not propose to advance further into the arguments other than to say that I hope this chamber will reject this motion as unworthy of this House of the Parliament. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications whether the Government has finalised plans to establish conditions and guidelines under which the operations of frequency modulation radio broadcasting stations may proceed? If such plans are uncompleted, can he inform the Senate when they will be finalised and when the expansion of FM broadcasting, especially into rural areas, can occur? 
-I present a report from the Joint Committee on Publications on the purpose, scope and distribution of the Parliamentary Papers Series, together with the transcript of evidence. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
This is the fourth special report presented to the Parliament by the Joint Committee on Publications since its investigatory powers were conferred upon it by amendments to the Standing Orders in 1970. The inquiry was initiated by the 
Committee in June 1976 to ascertain whether, in the opinion of the Committee, the Parliamentary Papers Series of the Commonwealth Parliament was fulfilling adequately its intended purpose and, if so, whether this was being achieved in the most economic and efficient manner. The Committee noted that no thorough investigation of the content and effectiveness of the Series had taken place since the presentation of the report of the Joint Select Committee on Parliamentary and Government Publications in 1964- often referred to as the Erwin report after its  Chairman,  the Honourable Dudley Erwin. 
Content of the Parliamentary Papers Series 
Since 1967 the content of the Parliamentary Papers Series has been determined, in the main, by the Joint Committee on Publications, following the recommendations of the 1964 Erwin Committee report. In that report certain guidelines were laid down to encourage future Publications Committees to establish and maintain a comprehensive and consistent Series. The main advantage of a consistent Series remains unchanged from 1964, namely, that researchers, librarians and other users of the Series can anticipate, with relative confidence, the likely content of the Series from year to year. More recently, the establishment of a consistent Series has enabled the Australian Government Publishing Service, on advice from the Parliament, to arrange the simultaneous printing of the departmental and Parliamentary Paper versions of a report. The resulting cost savings from undertaking only one production run for two separate jobs are considerable. The Committee reaffirms the general conclusions of the Erwin Committee with regard to the consistency of the Series and has made a recommendation designed to reinforce this aspect of the Series. The Committee has added only slightly to the Erwin Committee content guidelines by including documents which comprise the Australian Treaty Series and Reports of Parliamentary Committees of Inquiry. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his temporary capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer to the announcement made on 19 October 1977 by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs which outlined details of the proposed membership and operations of the Oil Industry Marketing Consultative Committee which will provide a continuous source of information to the Government on marketing aspects of the oil industry. Will the Minister direct the Committee to consider the marketing and other aspects of re-refined lubricating oils and will he ensure that the oil re-refining industry is represented on this Committee so that full attention is given to the urgent national problems associated with the marketing of re-refined oil in this country. 
-Is the Minister for Industry and Commerce aware that under a Customs interpretation Australian assemblers of completely knocked-down- that is CKD- imported vehicles are paying duty and sales tax on the packaging cases at the same rate as is charged on the contents of the package? Does the Minister agree that such packages have no commercial value and that they are destroyed after use, that therefore the action by Customs effectively raises - 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice on 22 September 1977: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report in  The Age  of 10 September 1977, which states that the Great Barrier Reef Consultative Committee is investigating a scheme to ' spill ' a quantity of oil on to the Great Barrier Reef in an experiment to test the effect of oil contamination on the coral. 
Is the experiment associated with any proposal to commence drilling for oil on the Reef. 
What is the estimated cost of this experiment, and how long is it expected to take. 
Has the Government given permission for the experiment to be undertaken. 
-by leaveBriefly, I applaud what the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence is doing in taking up this particular reference. It is taking a broad view of that reference. This was the purpose of the statement which  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack made. Certainly it is widening the investigation to the Soviet Union. I was surprised to hear what  Senator Georges  said tonight. It is very easy to say: 'Let us not deal with this particular country because we should be dealing with that country or with another country', but we may never deal with anything if we act in that way. 
I recall that the genesis of the matter which has been taken up by the Committee was when a group of Jewish people came to the Parliamentthey were electors from Victoria- complaining about the treatment of Soviet jewry. They came in a freedom bus and made representations. It was as a result of  Mr Wentworth  's representations following that visit that this matter came to the attention of the Committee. Therefore it is a matter of concern to the electors of Australia who raised it and who are concerned about the treatment of Soviet jewry. This is a matter about which I had a chance to obtain some information when in the Soviet Union last year. I believe that there is an excellent reason for this Committee to examine this matter and human rights in the Soviet Union. 

 Senator Georges spoke of Amnesty International. Amnesty International deals with many different countries but it has concentrated considerably in the last year or two on the appalling situation of human rights not only of Jewish people but also of other religious and national groups in the Soviet Union. It is a matter to which a great deal of the publications of that organisation have been devoted. There is a great need for work to be done in this area and the Committee is right to take it on. It is true that there are many other places and situations to be investigated and we would all like to spend more time dealing with them. I regret that  Senator Georges  should have taken a defensive view and decried the work which the Committee is undertaking. The Committee is concerned with one massive country and is not dealing with every other country. I hope that the Committee presses on with what is intended and will have the warm support of members of this chamber. 
-I present the report on Advisory Opinions by the High Court by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs together with the submissions received by the Committee in relation to the reference. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
This matter was referred to the Committee on 3 1 May 1977. This question has been the subject of legal and political consideration since the early days of federation. In 1910 the Commonwealth Parliament attempted to confer an advisory opinion jurisdiction upon the High Court by the Judiciary Act 1910. In 1921 the High Court held that this Act was invalid as it was outside the legislative power of the Commonwealth. In 1927 a royal commission was established to review the Constitution and in 1929 it presented its report. One of this recommendations was that the Constitution should be amended to enable the High Court to give advisory opinions. No action was taken on the royal commission's recommendation. The matter is presently on the agenda of the Constitutional Convention which has not, to date, come to any conclusion in relation to it. 
In the course of its consideration of this reference the Committee had to consider the following questions: 
Should the jurisdiction of the High Court be extended to enable it to give advisory opinions? 
Is it necessary to amend the constitution in order to extend the jurisdiction of the High Court to enable it to give advisory opinions? 
c) What is the extent of the jurisdiction to be conferred upon the High Court? 
The Committee reports affirmatively on the first two questions and sets out in detail the jurisdiction it considers should be conferred upon the High Court. The resolution of these three questions involved the consideration of issues fundamental to the role of the Courts in Australia today. 
In the course of its inquiry the Committee has considered submissions from the Law Council of Australia and other professional associations, from interested academics and the AttorneyGeneral 's Department. The Committee has also reviewed the practice and procedure in other common law countries. From the evidence and material before it, the Committee became aware that the current system of reviewing constitutional changes can and does create serious problems, the most important of which arises out of the delays which occur in having the validity of legislation determined by the High Court. This was illustrated to the Committee by material provided to it by the Attorney-General's Department. The Committee is of the opinion that the legislative process would be considerably improved if the High Court was given the power to give advisory opinions. 
Another matter which had considerable significance in the Committee's deliberations was the fact that the States have the power to seek advisory opinions from State courts and that in fact one State, New South Wales, has passed legislation requiring the New South Wales Court of Criminal Appeal to give advisory opinions on a limited range of matters. The curious situation arises that there would be a right of appeal from an advisory opinion of a State Supreme Court to the Privy Council but no appeal could be made to the High Court. 
The report is the unanimous conclusion of the all-party Committee which consists of members of the three political parties represented in the Senate. In summary the Committee's recommendations are: 
That the Constitution should be amended so that the Attorneys-General of the Commonwealth and the States or a person authorised by the fiat of an Attorney-General may seek the advice of the High Court: 
On the Constitutionality of any State or Commonwealth Act: 
On matters arising out of the conflict of laws between the States: 
On questions of law arising out of any treaty entered into by the Commonwealth and the validity of any legislation made pursuant to it; and that the High Court should be empowered to hear appeals from advisory opinions given by the State Supreme Courts. 
-I present the Sixteenth Report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the firm statements made by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs earlier this year expressing the Government's strong opposition to apartheid in South Africa and to other denials of liberty in that country. Is the Minister now informed of the banning orders imposed by the South African Government this week against officials of the Christian institute, against newspapers and against respected and moderate white opponents of the government of South Africa? Will the Minister consider making a protest to the South African Government against this further blow to democracy in that country and denials of human rights? Will the Minister take early action to make clear the strong objections of the Australian people to such behaviour? 
I present the following petition from 15 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned students, parents, teachers and citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the report of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations on Employment Prospects by Industry and Occupation, July 1977, p. 197, states that, in respect of Stenographers/Secretaries: 
With the exception of new business college graduates the demand for less experienced and less skilled people in Sydney is in balance with the supply. 
Business College graduates are exactly what the market wants and employers demand. 
In one of the few fields of employment shown by the report to be under-supplied, the Government is effectively reducing the ability of business colleges to train enough secretaries and stenographers for the positions which are available. 
The sixteen technical colleges in the Metropolitan area of Sydney which accommodate 3220 students in day secretarial studies do not have the capacity to accommodate more than 6 per cent of the 2435 students at non-State business colleges in the same area who will be disadvantaged by the Government's recent decision to withdraw fees subsidies and living allowances from the end of 1 977. 1977 School leavers who wish to undertake a course in Secretarial Studies and thus ensure they obtain a worthwhile position of employment on graduation are being forced to pay fees of the order of $1400 for the year and also to forgo TEAS living allowances. 
The Government's decision is unfair, unjust, discriminatory, unreasonable and capricious. 
Your petitioners, therefore, humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government will act immediately to undertake a thorough review of the position of non-State business colleges, guarantee interim funding forthwith and reverse its decision. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
As the petition exceeds 250 words in length, I seek leave to have it read by the  Clerk. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and refers to the considerable and continuing public protest, newspaper correspondence and letters to honourable senators regarding the decision of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to cease broadcasting the obviously successful and popular Terry Lane talk-back program. Whilst I appreciate that the Minister cannot and should not give any direction to the ABC, will he, in view of the paucity of informative radio discussion programs currently available, urge the ABC Commissioners to reconsider their decision? As a result of questions asked in the Senate last week on this subject, has the Minister ascertained and can he inform the Senate the reason for the program being discontinued? Is the Minister satisfied that the ABC is at present providing adequate and comprehensive programming so far as public discussion is concerned? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Does the International Whaling Commission impose regulations upon the harvesting activities of whaling nations, including an international observer scheme which provides for independent observers in foreign whaling stations to oversee whaling operations? Is it true that a Brazilian observer should be stationed at the Cheynes Beach whaling station at Albany but was not stationed there at any stage last year, and up till June 1977 still had not arrived? Has this Brazilian observer arrived in the meantime and, if not, what is being done to ensure that this Australian whaling station complies with the regulations laid down by the International Whaling Commission? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I refer to an article appearing in the  Age  of 1 November 1977 claiming that the Aboriginal Legal Service is on the verge of running out of money and is about to close. Are these allegations accurate? If so, what does the Minister intend to do to ensure that there is continuing legal aid for Aborigines in Victoria? 
I am quite sure that it is not right to say that in this chamber it is not possible to discuss the events of 1975 or any other period. Those things have been done constantly in this chamber, and perhaps tediously, in the last few years. That is not the basis of the objection this morning. The objection this morning is on the basis of a statement that a public officer, whether he be the Governor-General or somebody else, has breached conventions and has done something that he should not do in relation to his duty. 
I am not interested in Willie Hamilton or Joe Blow or the man who jumped over the moon. Surely we must be concerned with our own duties under our own Standing Orders. If somebody criticises the duties of an important officer of state and the way in which he performs those duties, that is a breach of respect which the Standing Orders certainly cover. It is not a matter of preventing history or issues being discussed here that are being discussed in the community. What  Senator O  "Byrne said was not relevant to the point. The point is a simple one,  Mr President,  and that is that your ruling is correct and within the Standing Orders and must be upheld. 
I address a question to the Minister for Education. I refer to the decisions made earlier this year in relation to grants presently being made to independent business colleges and the allowances being paid to students attending such colleges. Can the Minister advise whether further consideration has been given to this matter and to representations on the matter to the Minister by me and many other honourable members and honourable senators on the Government side of the Parliament? Is he in a position to advise the Senate of the present situation? 
I want to say a few words about this Bill. It is one which makes a grant to Queensland, and honourable senators may wonder why a Victorian senator has the audacity to enter into the debate and express views. On the other hand, I assure honourable senators that if they have patience they will hear why I do so. This is a Bill which provides a special grant to Queensland of $24.8m, as  Senator Colston  has said, in addition to amounts that will go to Queensland by way of payments which are now made through the federalism policy of this Government. Those payments alone are much more generous to Queensland, along with the other States, than had previously been the case. I refer to the second reading speech made by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  because it mentions factors that ought to be taken into account. 
I hasten for the comfort of  Senator Colston  to assure him that I intend to vote for this Bill and not stand in the path of Queensland getting this additional $24.8m. However, I think that other factors ought to be recognised which at the moment are not recognised by Queensland and some of its political leaders. As was said in the second reading speech, this is an additional amount to be paid to Queensland which already is receiving by way of personal income tax entitlements greater amounts per capita than it received before. Of course, it receives greater paymentsthanNewSouthWalesandVictoria.It has been pointed out that Queensland now is the only State applying for special revenue assistance. It is the only claimant State; that is its decision. It chooses to do so and to seek additional money. 
It is interesting to look at the financial hardships which are imposed on citizens and taxpayers in other States, particularly New South Wales and Victoria, to enable this additional grant to be made. The second reading speech pointed out that some $776.2m goes to Queensland under the income tax sharing arrangements, which averages out at $361 per head of population compared with an average of $264 per head of population for New South Wales and Victoria. That is the situation under the normal arrangements. Quite apart from the money to be paid under this and other Bills, such as the brigalow scheme Bill, and other payments that may be made to Queensland, there is an allowance to Queensland of $97 per head. That is Queensland's entitlement. It ought to be recognised, and perhaps recognised a little more often by Queenslanders, that they are requiring from other taxpayers in Australia greater assistance to enable things to be done in Queensland, remembering, as we do, that there are developments in Queensland. Already the size of Queensland has been raised. Nonetheless, the Australian taxpayer makes those provisions for Queensland. 
Despite that and the fact that this $24m is over and above the weighted entitlements which Queensland already receives, one reads with some surprise the things which are written in Queensland, which at the moment is subject to an election campaign. I saw in  Mr Hugh  Lunn's column in the  Australian  on 3 November references to statements which apparently are being made by a certain cricket personality, one of the Packer stable who appears in many advertisements on behalf of the State Government. He says some things which I find true. He desires the 
Queensland Government to encourage initiative and hard work- they are excellent sentimentsand goes on to say: 
The Government's made sure that we, as Queenslanders, pay the lowest State taxes and charges in Australia; that we, as Queenslanders, don't pay State death taxes or gift taxes. And because of their firm belief in free enterprise Queensland 's payroll tax has also been significantly cut. 
Queensland is the wealthiest and fastest-growing State in Australia. 
Maybe it is, but we must remember that though the recommendation this year is that these grants should be paid, I do. not read into the second reading speech necessarily that that always will be the case. 
It does not sound like a mendicant State, from the propaganda which comes forward. When I look at these statements that Queensland has the lowest taxes and charges in Australia, I am aware that Victorians pay rather heavily in this area and also that Queensland has chosen to cut out such things as State death duties. Queensland is entitled to do that and to attract people from Victoria and elsewhere to go to Queensland, perhaps not to live but to die, in order to gain benefit from the assets of those people. Other States cannot do this. Because they have other commitments they cannot abolish death duties. Likewise we find in Victoria and New South Wales that payroll tax is a heavy burden on industry. It is not attractive and does not depend on the profits which businesses make. Dearly would we like to see the end of payroll tax. On the other hand, Queensland is able to reduce its rate of payroll tax. I am not suggesting that it is for us to tell Queensland what it can do but perhaps Queensland should recognise that commitments and sacrifices are made by other taxpayers in Australia to enable Queensland to have the luxury of abolishing or reducing duties. One reads with some concern day by day what is happening in Queensland. Even this morning we read in the  Australian  the remarks which the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  has been making. We as Australians are concerned about civil liberties and about the rights which people have in election campaigns - 
I go further. As secretary of Amnesty International in this Parliament,  Senator Coleman  would agree that it is a right which we have. We demand that right and we have it. Sometimes it is restricted but we should fight against such restrictions wherever they appear so that there is no interference with anyone in Australia speaking about restrictions which appear in other parts of Australia. This lady,  Mrs Bonner-  I do not think she is any relation of our distinguished  Senator Bonner-  is a former Miss Australia who describes herself as a former National Party supporter. She said that apparently she had been branded almost a communists because she has criticised the Premier for his attacks on the rights of anti-uranium campaigners. I do not have much sympathy with the viewpoint of those campaigners but I do have sympathy for the right of the people to make their viewpoint known and to demonstrate their viewpoint as Australians. When she tried to criticise the Premier he told her: 
If you squawk like a crow, look like a crow and fly like a crow you 11 be shot with the crows. 
I deplore any politician in Australia describing not only this beautiful lady who appears to be an intelligent woman who expresses - 
Yes. The expression is most unfortunate, bearing in mind the various meanings. The significance of this matter is that it is unfortunate when one finds people who in political campaigns want to label other people. I think this is deplorable. This has been the subject of some discussion in the Parliament. Reference has been made also in the editorial of the  Australian  this morning to statements which were made also by the Queensland Premier. This concerns us as Australians and as taxpayers. 
I make these remarks because they have relevance to the Queensland Grants (Special Assistance) Bill which the Senate is debating. In Mount Isa assistance has been given for the construction of the Lake Julius Dam. The Premier of Queensland has said, when speaking in support of the National Party candidate, that assistance provided in relation to this dam may not continue and that 'any other candidate will have no access to me at all*. I find it surprising and deplorable that that should be said, particularly when I understand that we as taxpayers provided a grant of $325,000 towards work on that dam last year. Consequently, I believe, as the  Australian  newspaper pointed out in its editorial, that any Australian citizen is entitled to elect the candidate of his or her choice as a member of Parliament. Surely any member of Parliament, is entitled to approach a Premier to make representations in regard to matters such as dams. It is unfortunate to find political leaders suggesting that they will not recognise members of opposition parties who seek to make representations to them. 
I notice that at least the Liberal Party in Queensland raised some objection to these matters. I notice this morning that  Mrs Yvonne  McComb, the State  President  of the Liberal Party in Queensland, in referring to the statements made about  Mrs Bonner,  said that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  must realise that everyone has a democratic right to vote for any political party. I think that that expression shows - 
-It is a credit to her, as  Senator Georges  points out. I know that an election is being heldin Queensland. I know that the members of the public voting in that election do not want to jump out of the frying pan into the fire. They may not want to vote against one party and vote for the Australian Labor Party. But I hope that Liberals and people who have a belief in civil liberties and who are prepared to express that belief and to stand up for them will receive the support of the Queensland people. Queensland is an important part of Australia. It is such an important part of Australia that we recognise it by making grants such as the grant made in this Bill to further the development of Queensland. We in turn have a right to expect that Queenslanders and Queensland leaders will respect the democratic rights of persons in their State. It is for us to raise objection when these things happen. As I said, I will certainly support this Bill. It provides an additional grant to Queensland. I hope it will be put to good purpose. I hope at the same time that the Queensland Government will recognise that we are making this assistance available as Australian citizens and that it will respect the rights of all Australian citizens during this election period. 
-I present the report on the Evidence (Australian Capital Territory) Bill 1972 by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, together with a copy of evidence taken at an in camera meeting of the Committee in relation to the reference. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report. 
-I present a report on the outstanding references of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a brief statement in relation to the report. 
-by leave-Mr  President,  in regard to the report which I tabled earlier, one of my colleagues has referred to the fact that the report contains a reference to the tabling of the  Hansard  transcript of in camera evidence. Perhaps I should say that the Committee, in its report on outstanding references tabled on 23 September, had advised the Senate in advance that it intended to follow that course. Paragraph 8 on page 3 of that report states: 
The Committee chose this form of meeting to enable it to hear a frank and open discussion on the bill. It is the intention of the Committee to make the  Hansard  report of this meeting available to all interested persons, and to table same in the Senate on completion of its inquiry into the matter. 
The witnesses concerned were consulted about this course and agreed that such a record should be tabled. The precedent for this arose on the occasion of the tabling of the Committee's report on 'The Law and Administration of Divorce and related Matters and the Family Law Bill 1974' on 15 October 1974. At that time the  Chairman  of the Committee tabled the  Hansard  report of three in camera meetings. It was in accordance with that precedent that this course was followed today. 
-I refer the AttorneyGeneral to the proposed freedom of information Bill, which has been the subject of long and intense study and recommendations by many honourable senators and honourable members, including  Senator Tehan,  the  Chairman  of the Government Parties' law and government committee,  Senator Knight  and other honourable senators on this side of the chamber. As the Attorney-General is aware of the strong desire of honourable senators to have the Bill available for public comment and early passage, can he give some indication of the progress that has been made in achieving these objectives? 
asked the Acting AttorneyGeneral, upon notice, on 24 August 1 977: 
1 ) What payments has the Commonwealth made to each State Government in each of the last three years (and  proposed  for the year 1977-78) towards the cost of the use of State Judges, Courts, and other facilities in the conduct of litigation under Federal laws. 
Do such payments cover the cost to the State of providing such facilities for the Commonwealth. 
In what manner are such payments assessed. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health and I refer to a report in the Melbourne  Sun  on 28 October 1977 which quotes the Minister for Health as stating that there is no evidence of danger to humans in the use of chloroform in drugs and cosmetics. Is the Minister aware that, as a result of disclosures under the Freedom of Information Act in the United States of America, reports have revealed that there is a substantial danger of causing cancer in the use of chloroform in various forms? If the Minister for Health will not act to ban or curtail the use of chloroform will he at least reveal to the Parliament details of the known chloroform content of substances, including toothpaste, in order that the public can make its own judgment on the use of toothpaste taking into account the divergent views of medical authorities in the United States of America and elsewhere? 
-We are dealing with the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill which is an important Bill. I am afraid that apart from those honourable senators who have spoken this afternoon and a few others there would not appear to be, in the dying days and hours of this Parliament, a great deal of interest and a great deal of opportunity for careful and rational consideration of a Bill of this nature. I regret, therefore, that this is the situation. This Bill is not the beginning and the end of alterations to the law in regard to broadcasting and television. It follows a Bill which I am afraid came rather hurriedly upon the scene at the end of last year and it is obvious from the statements made by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  that there will be further legislation next year when such matters as the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal's report on selfregulation and other matters are considered. But nonetheless this Bill comes forward as an important piece of legislation whose purposes are only partially understood. 
I think that we also have the problem that, although the Bill has been seen now for some two or three weeks, and some members of the Government parties, particularly those concerned with committees, have seen it for a longer period than that and have given it consideration, nonetheless there is not sufficient appreciation by the public of its purposes and terms. It is a long and difficult Bill and therefore requires dispassionate concern. I do not regard it as a Bill that ought to be considered in a party political or election atmosphere. I do not tackle the Bill today in that atmosphere because I believe broadcasting and television should be considered in such a way that we do not look at it as a matter of party political advantage; we look at it as the way in which we can provide the best system of broadcasting and television for this country. 
I am by no means satisfied with the system we have at the present time. I am very much a supporter of the two-type system whereby we have the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the national system, and a financially sound commercial television system. At the same time I think there are distinct weaknesses in the system as a whole which will continue to need remedying. I have looked at the debates in the House of Representatives which concluded on Thursday and further reports and representations which came in as late as this last weekend. I want to make some reference this afternoon to some of the representations and some of the concerns that I feel about the Bill. Let me first of all put into context what this Bill is about because there have been some references to it. The main purposes to be served by the Bill should be understood. The Minister's second reading speech has already been quoted but I think it should be quoted again. In it he states: 
The principle of a broadcasting system not subject to political interference is one of the basic aims of the changes proposed in this Bill. The major element of the changes aimed at depoliticising the broadcasting system is the transfer of the licensing power from the Minister to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. 
The Minister went on to say: 
In addition, we believe it highly desirable that there should be a significant degree of public and industry involvement in the development of broadcasting. 
With those aims we must surely be in agreement. They are important aims and must be kept in the forefront of our thinking on this legislation. The Minister summarised the main provisions of the Bill in the following way: 
The transfer of the present ministerial powers relating to the licensing of stations; 
The full establishment of the powers and functions of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal; 
The transfer of the broadcasting planning responsibility from the Secretary of the Postal and Telecommunications Department to the Minister; 
Introduction of public inquiries into licence renewals; 
Establishment and constitution of the special broadcasting service; and 
A number of minor and consequential amendments reflecting the above changes and updating or modifying the act where necessary. 
He went on to speak of the powers which are given to the Tribunal under the Bill. In relation to those six basic intentions or principles on which this Bill is based I say that I have some reservations about one of them, namely, the transfer of responsibility from the Department of Post and Telecommunications. I have some doubts about it and am in some ways sorry that the Green report was not followed in that regard. I have no reservations about the other proposals which are all basically important. From that point of view this is a desirable Bill. 
At the same time we must recognise that this is in no way the end of the matter and we might remind those who this afternoon have been critical of the legislation of what the Minister,  Mr Eric  Robinson, said in the debate in the House of Representatives on 3 November 1977 as recorded at page 2814 of  Hansard.  He was replying to an amendment which had been moved by  Mr Wentworth  in relation to the Broadcasting Council. On that occasion the Minister said: 
Any acceptance of proposed new clause 2a would preempt the Government's consideration of that Tribunal report which addresses itself to the broadcasting council. It suggests as an alternative a broadcasting information office. The Government will consider early in the next year that Tribunal report, as well as the submissions we have received from the community and from interested organisations. Any amendments which may flow on from that consideration will be examined at that time. 
The Government did not accept the amendment. 
He said it last year and on this occasion also. I suggest to honourable senators that insofar as we make suggestions here and insofar as the public will be making suggestions to us- I have had many representations from members of the public and am concerned to refer to them today- those suggestions ought to be considered and this Bill ought to be regarded as a step along the way. The Bill provides certain things and, particularly because of the establishment of the Special Broadcasting Service, there is some element of urgency about it. Were it not for that urgency I would hope that the Government would not have pressed this legislation at this time but would have allowed further time for consideration of it. 
I understand the need for the setting up of the Special Broadcasting Service. It is something which the ethnic community is anticipating and wanting and from that point of view I can see some urgency in the legislation. However, there are representations which have come to us that ought to receive consideration. The Senate is a house of review but we obviously are not in a position to review this legislation in the sense of making detailed amendments to it in view of the fact that the House of Representatives, presumably, will no longer be sitting after tonight. Nevertheless, I hope that there will be a fundamental review or consideration of what is said in the debate today on both sides of the chamber. Although there was a political overtone in the speeches from Opposition senators there were among the criticisms they made sound comments which deserve further consideration in the interests of making the best possible arrangements for broadcasting and television in this country. 
I turn now to a number of criticisms that have been made and I shall make some comment on them. I received a submission from the ABC Staff Association, Victorian Branch, in the last few days. The Association has raised particular objection to the provisions of clause 15 relating to the interrelation between the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the new Special Broadcasting Service. Clause 15 proposes that section 59 of the principal Act be amended by inserting the following sub-section: 
In complying with the requirements of sub-section ( 1 ), the Commission shall have regard to the services provided under PartIIIA. 
That relates to the setting up of the Special Broadcasting Service and the criticism which is made by the Staff Association, a criticism which I think is exaggerated, is that the provision could be used as a means to limit the programming independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and, therefore, should be opposed. I think that the Association is reading too much into that clause. To say that the Commission shall have regard to something does not mean that the Australian Broadcasting Commission, which is an independent Commission, will not be able to deal in areas where the Special Broadcasting Service will be operating. Of course, the Commission must have regard to whether it merely duplicates the functions of the Special Broadcasting Service, thereby wasting public money, when there are other things which could be done in the community with that money. I have mentioned already what has been said about political independence and refer now to what the Minister,  Mr Eric  Robinson, said on 4 November last year when speaking to the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976. He said: 
I would stress here that the planning function of my Department will not involve it in the setting of programming standards or in influencing the programming output of the various sectors of the broadcasting system. 
At the same time, the independence and integrity of the Australian Broadcasting Commission will be maintained. The services provided by the ABC will be subject to a periodic review by an independent public inquiry, with the first such inquiry being undertaken in 1980. 
That is an important statement and one to be recalled. The independence and integrity of the Australian Broadcasting Commission are matters on which on many occasions I have made public utterances. I stand firmly for that independence. I believe it is important but I do not think that the clause to which I have referred does anything really to touch that independence. 
A further matter on which a considerable amount of criticism has been made today is the allegation that the powers of the Minister under this Bill or the powers from the original Act which are left with the Minister are too great. I have a general reservation not only about this provision but also about many provisions which l eave too many decision-making powers to the Minister. Ministers are very busy, attributing to them the best possible motive, and often make decisions which a specialist tribunal is in a better position to make. This criticism of the Bill has been made by an organisation to which one honourable senator opposite referred, the organisation called Justice in Broadcasting. I would like to quote from the submissions which that organisation has made. Let it not be thought that the organisation Justice in Broadcasting is some wild, radical and revolutionary organisation. It is confined mostly to Victoria and consists of persons mainly associated with churches in that State- they speak as independent persons and cover a wide change of churches- who have taken an interest in this subject over the years. The organisation is headed by  Mr Dirk  Bakker, the director of Mission Enterprises, and comprises a considerable number of well known public men including doctors, surgeons, lawyers, barristers and Jim Ramsay M.P. who is the parliamentary secretary of the Victorian Cabinet. It might be said therefore that I am not dealing here with an irresponsible organisation or one whose views should be lightly disregarded. 
In the submission which it has sent to me and which, I presume, also has gone to the Minister there is an analysis of the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill and the organisation makes a number of points. I want to refer to some of them in relation to the powers granted to the Minister in the Bill. That body stated: 
The Bill retains substantial powers in the licensing area in the hands of the Minister. The Minister will be able, entirely independently of any public hearing or other action of the Tribunal, to lay down licence specifications and to alter these specifications at any time. Besides technical matters these include specifications about the nature and purpose of the service- Le. the programs- to be provided and the area to be served. 
Reference is made then to portions of the Bill. The analysis goes on to state: 
These powers would enable a Minister, without any kind of public consultation, to determine the kind of programming that is to be available throughout the entire commercial and public broadcasting system and in each part of that system. They would also enable him to determine, independently of any Tribunal inquiry or decision, in large measure who will or will not be given a licence by tailoring the specifications to suit certain potential applicants while excluding others. 
It is further stated: 
As from January 1977, as a result of the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Act (No. 2) 1976, the ABCB was disbanded and the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal created. At the same time responsibility for planning advice to the Minister passed from the ABCB to the Postal and Telecommunications Department. 
This change in the structure of broadcasting planning had two important effects. Planning decisions became more susceptible to political pressures and the planning processes became less open to public scrutiny. 
I make this one further quotation at this stage: 
Our concern, therefore, is not that the Bill gives the Minister more power over licensing than he had before but that it retains this power in his hands within a completely new structure of planning that creates unprecedented dangers for distortion of the broadcasting system in the exercise of these ministerial powers. 
That is fairly strong criticism by a body of people who, for a considerable time now, have made submissions and appeared before various inquiries that have been held. They feel that there are unprecedented dangers involved in this legislation. They are not referring necessarily to the present Minister or to the present Government. They state that powers are being granted which may be used by different governments and which may be used negligently or intentionally to the harm of the community. 
I feel that in the review which is to take place and in the submissions to be looked at that matter should be considered carefully to determine whether there are powers that might be changed so that the unprecedented dangers which are referred to will not occur. 
I turn to what has been said today about the Special Broadcasting Service. I applaud the fact that there is now proposed to be organised a system in regard to the setting up of ethnic or multilingual radio and television. I believe that this is better than the ad hoc system which has been in operation for some years. We have seen the setting up of broadcasting stations under the Wireless Telegraphy Act or in some other way. It is better that proper provisions should be made. 
It may not be the best way of doing things. It may not be possible to do this in the best way. I think that it was  Senator Robertson  who rather applauded the setting up of the Special Broadcasting Service, as distinct from the speech made by  Senator Button. Senator Robertson  criticised- I think I would be somewhat with him on this point- the way in which the powers are expressed. I feel that it is better that the Service should be set up and that it should have representatives of the ethnic community on it. From that point of view, I think that the provisions in the Bill are desirable. 
But on the other hand, I think that there is justice in the criticism that has been made. In Part IIIA of the Bill, the functions of the Special Broadcasting Service are described in these terms: 
to provide multilingual broadcasting services and, if authorised by the regulations, to provide multilingual television services; 
I do not know why that complete distinction is made. In the case of television, the broadcasts can be made only if authorised by regulation. In other words, the Minister must decide whether the ethnic community or the Service shall carry out certain functions. This is not the case with the Australian Broadcasting Commission which, of course, is given a responsibility to provide comprehensive services. Much of the decision making in that respect is left to that Commission. But in this case, television broadcasts are restricted in that it is necessary to obtain authorisation under regulations. I know that this Parliament can disallow the regulations. But I wonder whether there ought not be a review of the powers so that the same situation applies in respect to radio and television. 
The second function of the SBS is to provide broadcasting and television services for such special purposes as are prescribed. Once again, this requires the prescribing by regulation. It will be necessary to set out what the special purposes will be. I hope, as  Senator Robertson  does, that the special purposes will go beyond some of the things that have been contemplated in the debate and that they will include community and access radio. I hope that we will see more of that type of radio developing in this country. I know that there are limitations on the financial resources of the community, particularly at the present time. But I hope that the special purposes will include such things as the proposals  Senator Robertson  made in regard to Aboriginal services and providing the Aboriginal communities with their special radio features. I hope that the Service will be used to provide community radio which I think ought to blossom, ought to be under proper control and to be given encouragement in this country. 
However, I am a little concerned in regard to these restrictions to be placed on the Special Broadcasting Service. It is proposed to insert a new section 79E. After setting out the powers of the Service, proposed sub-section (2) states: 
The provision under this Pan of broadcasting or television services shall be in accordance with such principles as are prescribed. 
I do not know what that altogether means. Perhaps a government may prescribe that the principles shall be that the Service will espouse only the causes of socialism or communism. That would be a principle, although it may be one that honourable senators on this side of the Senate would not wan*, a bar of. But under this provision, a government could prescribe principlesthat is a word of considerable looseness- which I think could be such as to restrict greatly the independence of the ethnic services which are being provided in this Bill. I suggest that further consideration ought to be given to those powers. Whilst I applaud the setting up of the Service and see the necessary urgency for doing so, I think that the Bill as presently drawn should receive some further consideration. 
Further criticism has been made today of public involvement and of the extent to which the members of the public can take part in the determination of licences, in making representations and so forth. In the representations that have been made to me some considerable concern has been expressed about what is involved in the provision that there should be an interest- that someone must have an interest in the matter before that person can appear before the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and appeal. Of course, not just any person could appeal against a decision of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal because this provision is restricted to licensees and people who have an ownership interest. Some reference was made to this matter by  Mr Lionel  Bowen in the debate that took place in the House of Representatives on 3 November 1977. The following remarks are recorded on page 2824 of the House of Representatives  Hansard.  Mr Lionel  Bowen said: 
I was talking about people having an interest and the Minister by interjection says that now it virtually means people with a pecuniary interest - 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications,  Mr Eric  Robinson, stated by way of interjection- 
No, I did not, I did say interest. It has nothing to do with pecuniary. 

 Mr Lionel Bowen went on to say: 
It is not pecuniary; we are pleased for that assurance. What I cannot understand is how we are going to define the word interest'. It is such an all-embracing term. 
I feel that there is some justification in that criticism. I think it is not just for pecuniary interests; it would be unfortunate if it were. 
-Yes, that is right. But I do not think that we should try that course here because we might come to some other conclusion altogether. But when it is provided that a person must have an interest to appear before the Tribunal, I should like to see the 'interest' defined. Since it is left to the Tribunal to decide whether a person has an interest, one could feel some concern about that. 
I am aware of the representations which have been made, again, particularly from Victoria, by members of parliament and by organisations in regard to children's television programs, which they regard as being quite inadequate and which I regard as being quite inadequate and unsatisfactory. I know that these matters will be considered when the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal's report on self-regulation is considered in the Parliament and certain aspects of that report are embodied in legislation because that report covers this matter. One wonders whether people who watch television, who have children and who are concerned about programs will have an interest in the view of the Tribunal, so that they will be allowed to appear before the Tribunal and set out their cases against a television or radio station, suggesting that those stations should or should not receive renewals of their licences et cetera because of the standards they have set perhaps over a period of years. I should like to be assured that such people would be entitled to appear before the Tribunal and would not be blocked off by a decision of the Tribunal from putting submissions before it. 
There is one other area which gives me and a number of people who have written to me considerable concern, that is, the provision concerning secrecy, as contained in clause 23 of the Bill, which seeks to insert proposed new sections 106A and 106B in the Broadcasting and Television Act. Proposed new section 106A deals with the assembly of information by the Tribunal and provides also that the Tribunal shall not disclose information which would be, in the opinion of the Tribunal, prejudicial to the interests of any person. Proposed new section 106b reads: 
1 ) This section applies to every person who is or has been a member, acting member, associate member or acting associate member of the Tribunal or a member of the staff of the Tribunal. 
Subject to this section, a person to whom this section applies shall not, either directly or indirectly, except for the purposes of this Act- 
make a record of, or divulge or communicate to any person, any information . . . 
It refers to information he obtains by reason of his office. Under proposed new sub-section (4) of proposed new section 106b, he is also denied the right to make any communication to a court of information of this nature. That has been criticised in correspondence I have received from a number of people. I have received a telegram from the Melbourne Access Video and Media Co-operative Ltd, which is concerned about this provision. I see that it has been criticised by Miss Sally White in an article which I think appeared in the Melbourne  Age.  Under the heading 'Tribunal Staff Attack Secrecy', the following is stated: 
In a letter to be sent this week to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications ... the staff members claim a section of the proposed bill goes 'far beyond the normal secrecy requirements embodied in the Public Service Act'. 
The article goes on to point out that the letter included the following: 
An officer of the tribunal who prepares school project material for educational purposes, including details of programmes broadcast by radio or television stations, compiled from documents supplied to the tribunal by such stations, would almost certainly be in breach of section 106b' . . . 
A tribunal member who mentions in a public address that channel X has reduced its spending on Australian programmes in the current financial year would also be in jeopardy,' . . . 
Similar protests have been received by me from the Students' Representative Council of the La Trobe University and from the Senior Lecturer in Sociology at the Footscray Institute of Technology,  Mr John  G. Sinclair. The Senior Lecturer in Sociology at the Footscray Institute of Technology stated: 
In particular, a section of this legislation, 106a I believe, threatens to restrict access to information about the ownership and control of the media in this country. Not only do we believe such information to be necessary to legitimate academic research, but also in the principle that government ought not protect private interests by such secrecy as the legislation proposes. 
In the light of the impending, and I hope soon to be introduced, freedom of information legislation and also in the absence of the broadcasting information office, the establishment of which has been recommended in the report of the Tribunal concerning self-regulation and which I hope will come on the scene, I feel that much of the criticism of the secrecy provisions in that they are rather too strong is justified. At page A 120 of the Green report, in regard to public access to information on ownership and control,  Mr Green  stated: 
It is proposed that the ABT - 
That is, the Australian Broadcasting Tribunalbe required to keep registers and records of ownership/control information and to allow public access to such information (other than certain prescribed classes of documents) and copying facilities. 
The Act as it now stands does not require disclosure by the Board of such information. 
I hope that the Government will look further into those secrecy provisions so that they might be altered, if necessary. It would be undesirable to increase the extent to which the disclosure of information which would be useful to the public in making up its own mind and useful in the putting of submissions to the Tribunal is restricted. 
We have received other criticisms about the proposed legislation. I do not go to the extent that  Senator Townley  went in making his criticisms. I think that there would be a problem in regard to the setting up of something like a semicommercial Australian Broadcasting Commission, if that were to be the case. If the Special Broadcasting Service were to do that I think it could be a matter of concern and danger to commercial stations in small towns. However, in regard to the honourable senators other complaint in regard to the idea that there ought to be a term of five years before the renewal of licences, it seems to me that the proposed term of three years is long enough. It is desirable that there should be a period such as the five year period provided for original licences to operate but after that here ought to be the closest possible public scrutiny and an opportunity for the public and for organisations concerned to go before the Tribunal at regular intervals and to express their views in regard to the renewal or otherwise of a licence. 
As I have said, I believe that the general purposes of this Bill are good, but as in other legislation which is hurried, there is a danger that we might have to come back and amend this legislation because of the way it operates. We have read the amendment proposed by the Opposition. There is some justification for the criticism contained in that amendment. This matter which we are debating is not in any way a black and white matter. But I do not believe that the proposed amendment poses a practical proposition. I think that this Bill, the main feature of which is the establishment of a special broadcasting service, is legislation which must proceed. But I hope that the Government will take due cognisance of the criticisms made by honourable senators today, I believe, in good faith. I hope that finally, in the re-writing of this legislation which will take place next year, we will ultimately have legislation for a system which is worthy of this country. 
-I present the seventeenth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1977: 
Will the Minister make available to the Parliament copies of reports, on the re-refining of lubricating oil in Australia, which have been prepared by officers of his Department, and also which have been received from outside sources, within the last two years. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the dearth of information available about the internal situation in Kampucheaformerly Cambodia- and especially the reports, now a year old, which detail the massive killings, starvation of the population and many major infringements of human rights being inflicted on the people by the ruling Khmer Rouge. Can the Minister provide the Senate with any more recent information on developments in this nation, particularly on the state of infringements of human rights? Have any international aid agencies been permitted to enter Kampuchea? Will Australia contribute to any program to provide aid to the suffering population of our South East Asian neighbour? 
At the time when the Committee adjourned consideration last evening there was a number of questions asked of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  which had not yet been answered. Also there had been some debate on the amendments which  Senator Townley  moved. In regard to the first amendment there is a point that ought to be given consideration by the responsible Minister when other legislation is introduced. A problem is raised by the amendment which deserves further consideration. 
The second amendment seeks to amend proposed section 87 by leaving out the expression that the Tribunal 'is satisfied that the circumstances justify its so doing9 and inserting as the grounds of specification the words 'there have been persistent breaches of standards, specifications or conditions'. I do not really think this amendment is satisfactory.  (Quorum formed).  I thank  Senator Georges  for giving me such an impressive audience. In regard to the second amendment which has been moved by  Senator Townley  which specifies the circumstances which the Tribunal should take into account, I do not feel the enumeration he puts forward is more satisfactory really than what is contained in the Bill at present. I do not think the 
Tribunal would need to consider only persistent breaches of standards, specifications or conditions. There may be one breach, and it may be a very important one, or there may be other matters which justify the Tribunal taking action. I do not really think that the honourable senator has found the answer to this problem. I hope that the Government will have a further look at this matter when it is making a general review of the Act. 
There is one other matter apart from the questions which have already been raised and about which the Minister has been asked. That is the matter which I mentioned in my speech in the second reading debate. Unless I am mistaken I do not think that this has been mentioned by the Minister. I refer to the provision in the proposed section 79e (2). Proposed section 79e sets out the various powers of the Special Broadcasting Service. I believe that basically the powers are sensible and fairly normal for the operations of the Service. But sub-section (2) says: 
The provision under this Part of broadcasting or television services shall be in accordance with such principles as are prescribed. 
This provision concerns me. I feel that it ought to be looked at again. Obviously nothing much can be done about it today.  (Quorum formed).  I refer again to proposed new section 79e sub-section (2) which provides: 
The provision under this Pan of broadcasting or television services shall be in accordance with such principles as are prescribed. 
This provision worries me. I can imagine the principles which a government- not our Governmentformed by those opposite might manage to prescribe and might tie into the activities of the Special Broadcasting Service. I ask the Minister to indicate whether some revision might be made of or some further consideration given to this question of the adequacy of merely prescribing principles. The regulations which are put down may be quite all right. They, of course, will be subject to the scrutiny of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. Nonetheless, it seems to me to be a wide prescription that is provided in this proposed new section. I would appreciate some comment on it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, without notice, on 20 October 1977: 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications whether the Government has finalised plans to establish conditions and guidelines under which the operations of frequency modulation radio broadcasting stations may proceed? If such plans are uncompleted, can he inform the Senate when they will be finalised and when the expansion of FM broadcasting, especially into rural areas, can occur? 
asked the Minister for Edu  cation, upon notice, on 22 September 1977: 
1 ) Has the Minister stated, since the decision to withdraw fees assistance from 18 private business colleges, that only 18 out of more than 100 colleges attracted fees assistance. 
Will the Minister provide: (a) the names and addresses of the 82 or more colleges which were not receiving assistance; (b) the total number of students enrolled at the 82 or more colleges; (c) the number of students who are undertaking courses comparable to those which met the criteria set down by the Department of Education for approval of fees assistance; (d) and the names of 30 or more private business colleges which made inquiries concerning, or unsuccessful applications for inclusion in the scheme, and the number of students undertaking comparable courses at these colleges. 
-I should like to join in the tribute which the Senate is paying to the late  Sir John  Spicer, whom I knew for over 30 years. I did not serve with him in this Parliament, my association with him being when I was young in politics and he was already experienced. I know of the efforts that he made and the respect in which he was held by all sections of the Victorian community over the very long period of his political life. 
I first met him when he was an active member of the Young Nationalist Organisation in Victoria, which subsequently amalgamated with the Liberal Party. He was a very wise and wellrespected leading member of that organisation. He was at one time the  President  of the Constitutional Club of Melbourne and showed an interest in that organisation for many years, constantly attending its lunches and meetings. He had many friends amongst the business and legal community of Melbourne. In that area, as Attorney-General and as a politician of great renown, he always showed a great deal of interest in constitutional matters and an awareness of and interest in changes and ideas that came forward from time to time. 
He served the Liberal Party in Victoria for many years in a most distinguished way, leading its Senate ticket and being a very important member of the Party from its foundation until he became a member of the bench. He was very important to the Liberal Party in its early days and contributed to the success that it then enjoyed. 
During the very long period that he served on the Commonwealth Industrial Court bench  Sir John  Spicer was respected for his work and was often seconded to conduct inquiries on behalf of the Government. They were very meticulous and exhausting inquiries, and I know from speaking to many who served with him and appeared before him he was unfailingly courteous to people who came before him. He was always pressing but fair to witnesses. He was well known for the results of the inquiries and the respect in which they were held. Not only in his capacity as a judge therefore, but also in relation to those in inquiries I think he had a most unique and distinguished record so far as the Australian people are concerned. He was an Australian who made his own way in life and achieved the success that he deserved. That success was due not to any great influence or help that he received but to his own abilities, his own straightness and honesty of purpose, and to his legal abilities. These qualities made him widely respected not only by the legal community throughout Australia but also by the public, who know that he was a wise judge and a good man. I join with my colleagues in paying my respects to him. I am sure that his family will find consolation in knowing that he had a fine life, one deserving of great credit and favour from the Australian people. I thank the Senate for the opportunity to join in this tribute. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs and refers to the incident involving a Russian nuclear powered Cosmos satellite which re-entered the earth's atmosphere during the fourth week in January and eventually crashed in Canada. The Minister will realise that the incident caused a disturbance on both a national and an international level. I ask: When was the Australian Government alerted to the fact that the satellite was falling out of its orbit and was likely to crash? What preparatory action was taken to counter the possible effects of the satellite crashing on Australian territory? What action can be taken by the Government to avert any further such incidents? 
I welcome the opportunity to enter the AddressinReply debate. One might well be forgiven for thinking that we have just been listening to debates in the Legislative Assembly of South Australia as we listened to the last and recent desperate defence of the Dunstan Government. I want to bring the Senate back to what is happening in Australia. We represent Australia and therefore I want to return to matters of concern to the whole of Australia. 
I will not be drawn into dealing with every State in Australia or any part of the Territories. I shall deal with issues that I think are important and should be raised during this debate. 
First, I want to congratulate  Senator Haines  who made her maiden speech tonight. She gave a very cogent and interesting speech. I wish her every success in her short term in this place bringing before the Parliament matters in which she obviously shows great interest. 

 Senator Cavanagh, who spoke after  Senator Haines,  proceeded with a somewhat turgid defence of the decision to appoint  Senator Haines  and in somewhat of a shame-faced way spoke of  Mr Millhouse  's views on the Constitution.  Senator Cavanagh  seemed to think his thoughts were quite irrevelant- that somehow the election of a successor to  Senator Hall  was related to the constitutional amendment which this Parliament and the people, adopted last year. Quite obviously it was not. It was probably the only example since Federation where a retiring senator belonged to a party which ceased to exist. Therefore, as provided for in the Constitution, unaltered by the amendment, the State from which the senator was elected had the unfettered right to choose a senator. Of course, we know the State of South Australia chose  Senator Haines  and she has this term to serve. The people of South Australia then elected Senator-elect Baden Teague, a very able man, who will take up his term in July. I do not propose to enter into what is a turgid and useless argument at this stage. 
I want to turn to some aspects of the AddressinReply Speech because that is what we are concerned with. First of all I want to turn to those references in the Speech that relate to civil liberties and to legislation which the Government proposes to proceed with in this area. This matter was the subject of some cynical discussion by  Senator Button  earlier this afternoon. Whilst I agree with one thing that the honourable senator mentioned, I think he was well wide of the mark in respect of the other matters he raised. You will recall,  Mr Deputy President,  that the Government has said that it will carry on its continuing program of law reform. This is a program which during the last two years has gone a long way towards designing protection of civil liberties and enhancing individual rights. 
It is proposed to establish a Human Rights Commission. A Bill was put before the previous Parliament to enable public discussion to take place on this matter. Freedom of information legislation is very much in the final stages of preparation. Legislation in respect of security appeals tribunals is among the things which the Parliament has been promised. 

 Senator Button referred to the fact that it was highly desirable that this country should ratify the Covenant on Civil and Political Rights which we signed in 1972. I believe that this action should be taken. The sooner we take it the better, particularly in view of the fact that we are now part of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. We have been elected to that body and therefore I think it is highly desirable that we should ratify the Covenant.  Senator Button  spoke of the position of a person in Queensland who resigned from his position as principal of a school for the purpose of taking part in the last election and whom the Queensland Premier has refused to allow to return to his job. I regard that as a significant lack of appreciation and lack of consideration of human rights. Likewise, I think that the actions in regard to  Mr John  Sinclair over Fraser Island and his subsequent sufferings are significant depredations of human rights. 
I think it essential that we have to have operating in this country a human rights commission that investigates and draws to the attention of the public any cases of human rights not being properly protected in this country. On that I agree with  Senator Button. 
But I do not agree with his comments regarding other aspects of the Government 's programfor example, the announcement about the freedom of information legislation.  Senator Button  said that this legislation had been promised for two years. That is not right. It has been promised for about five years. It was promised for three years by the Whitlam Government, which never got around to putting any Bill before the Parliament. It brought experts from overseas to look into the preparation of freedom of information legislation, but it never reached the position of actually putting any legislation before the Parliament. I think I can say that the work that has been done by members of the Government parties in the preparation and completion of this legislation is such that it will stand the test of time. It is important that when this legislation comes forward it be full blooded legislation and be similar to that legislation which now operates very successfully in the United States of America. I for one will be very keen, as will other members of the Government parties, to see the legislation and to ensure in its passage through the Parliament that it is very worthwhile and effective legislation. There is no reason to accept  Senator Button's  somewhat cynical view that, because it has not been seen yet it will be, as he described it, an anatomical freak and will not be comparable with the United States legislation. He speaks without knowledge of it and he speaks without having any way of judging it. I think that he will be found to be incorrect. I hope that he will be pleased if the legislation turns out to be useful. 
There is also, in that part of the Speech regarding civil liberties reference to the introduction and establishment of a Security Appeals Tribunal to ensure that security assessments are subject to an appeal system and safeguard individual liberties. I believe that it is highly essential that we should have that in this country. At this stage I must draw attention to a disagreement I have with what my colleague  Senator Walters  said earlier this afternoon when she was discussing the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation's files. She made the contention, which I think to be quite unsound, that those who have nothing to hide have nothing to fear. There is much to fear from inaccurate reports. My experience over many years as a lawyer and as a politician has been that there have been many occasions when people have not been able to get jobs in the Public Service because others have made certain allegations about them and those allegations have been collected in a file. It is highly essential, and the Government has recognised it in this proposed legislation, that there be somebody sitting in appeal who can look at these documents and see whether they are soundly based. I think that experience is against what  Senator Walters  said. One may have nothing to hide but one may find that people have made allegations against one and those allegations stand against one for a long time. I welcome the legislation which the Government proposes to introduce and which I believe will lead to a great improvement in our civil liberties in this area. 
I must say that in this area of civil liberties there is no mention of the Criminal Investigation Bill which was before the Parliament in the last session and which was the subject of a great deal of public comment and of public recommendations to the Government. I do not take it, from that omission that no action will be taken. Those matters were considered in great detail by Government committees. I hope that the Bill, which of course was based essentially on the recommendations in the reports of the Australian Law Reform Commission, is one that we will see again in this Parliament and that the recommendations that have been made by many organisationspolice, civil liberties bodies and otherswill come forward as legislation in this Parliament. 
I believe that the situation that we have in this country, whereby there is great criticism of some elements of the police forces and whereby some elements that are irresponsible are very often capable of bringing into disrepute the whole system of law enforcement in this country, is not satisfactory. One does not have to go from one State to another and to examine the reports and allegations made in one State or another to realise that there is a need for review of the investigative processes that the police and other organisations undertake. I will certainly be asking questions about such legislation, which does not rate a mention in the Governor-General's Speech but which I hope will be proceeded with in this Parliament. 
The second aspect with which I propose to deal in regard to the Governor-General 's Speech is the reference in it to our essential needs in regard to exports. It is very important to note that the Governor-General said: 
Essential to my Government's economic program is the growth of Australian industry, the development of our resources, and a renewed emphasis on growth in exports. These hold the key to greater prosperity and the creation of more jobs. 
He went on to say: 
My Government has embarked on a major program to boost exports. 
Increased access to overseas markets will be actively sought, and in particular my Government is determined to press for fair access to the markets of the major trading blocs. 
It seems to me to be quite essential that we get underway in succeeding much more in selling our products abroad. I was a member of a group of members of the Government parties who were in Japan and China for some weeks and who have just returned to Australia. We discussed with the authorities in those two countries the trading position among the three nations. We found there a great desire for increasing opportunities for trade. There is no doubt that the essence of Japan's economy is her ability to trade abroad- for example, her ability to trade with us and with China. We read only a few days ago of a $20,000m trade agreement being negotiated between' China and Japan. That represents an enormous and very important increase in trade for both of those countries. 
So far as we are concerned it is obvious that there are areas of our trade that leave something to be desired. 
While in Japan we had an opportunity to discuss the vexed question of beef exports to Japan and the fact that good quality beef- perhaps not the most expensive sort on which the Japanese sometimes rely- is coming in from Australia at one price and finally reaching the consumers in Japan at 10 times that price. It would appear, without going into this matter in great detail, that there is undoubtedly a great weakness in the distribution system in Japan. There are a great number of matters that ought to give concern to the Japanese people. I think it is important that the Australian traders and the Australian Government should be able to get to the consumers of Japan- to the people who live in their millions in the cities and who I believe desire to consume a lot of beef but at a reasonable price. We are in a position to provide such beef. 
I did not notice any Country Party. We had discussions with the new Liberal Club, which is a breakaway group, and the Liberal Democrats in Japan. I believe that we could do quite a lot with the consumers in Japan. I think that our interests and their interests coincide very much. I believe also that there is obviously a very intense desire to increase trade between Australia and China, the other country that we visited. The ViceChairman of the People's Republic,  Mr Ulanfu,  who led the delegation of the Chinese people here last year, specifically said to us in the Great Hall that China wanted not only particular goods from Australia but also our expertise and knowhow. China wants to learn from us about the way in which we have managed to produce primary products in great quantities. There is no doubt that the Chinese Government, under its present leadership, desires to have a great deal more activity in overseas trade. It regards Australia as a friendly country and one with which China can have a lot of dealings. 
Overall, I believe that the promotion of exports referred to in the Governor-General's Speech require us to be much more adventurous in our dealings with the South East Asian countries near to us. I believe that there are many markets to be obtained and that, in seeking them, we would not be in the position that  Senator Cavanagh  would have us in, namely merely sitting here protecting a standard of living, fearful of letting in imports from these countries. We will have to take imports from these countries if we are going to export to them. We will have to increase our imports, and we will therefore have to decide between industries in this country that are never likely to be viable and those that provide a lot of employment and are viable. Those are long term decisions but we should be looking at them now, knowing that we might not be able to make some decisions immediately because of our unemployment situation. We must know where we are going in the future and how we are going to increase our trading opportunities with our neighbours in the Asian countries and with China and Japan. I believe that those matters touched on in the Governor-General's Speech are going to be of great importance to us in the next three years. 
Apart from the matters contained in the Speech I wish to refer to two or three other issues. Things have happened in this country, both during the election period and since that time, which I think ought to have our immediate concern. One thing which happened during the course of the election campaign and which I regard as a matter of some seriousness was the premature disclosure of the report on human relationships. Three distinguished Australian citizens- Justice Evatt, an archbishop of my own church, and a leading public figure- spent a long time preparing the report. I do not say that I agee with everything in that report. I have read some parts of it and I would be very hard to persuade on some of them. But I felt that it was a very grave disservice to the commissioners that parts of the report were leaked out and thrown into the election campaign. 
Leaked out. Whatever may have been the way in which they came out, I thought that it was a grave injustice to the commissioners who sat for so long and heard so much evidence. The report deserves more than that and I believe that it has been wrongly dealt with. It since quite properly has become public knowledge and now deserves careful consideration and detailed debate in this Parliament. Politics should not be used as the basis for passing judgment on the report. An earlier Parliament decided to refer these very difficult questions to the commissioners. Now that their report has been received I believe that the Parliament has a duty to consider that report and to come to conclusions on whether the recommendations are wise or not. 
The second matter that concerns me and which occurred in the last few months was the de facto recognition that we gave to the Indonesian take-over of Timor in January 1978. Because I was out of the country at the time I feel that it is only right that I should repeat the consistent view that I have expressed for some two years. I have made consistent criticisms of the Indonesian take-over from the time that I first attacked the Labor Foreign Minister because we did not take a stand at the very beginning of the trouble in 1974-75. Since that time we have had something to answer for. I believe that the de facto recognition was an unwise decision, at this time anyway. I know that it is a de facto recognition only and not a recognition in law; nonetheless it has been adopted by the Indonesian Government as giving it some justification for its actions. I recognise that in our previous actions we have not had much support from other countries in the Western world. Although the United States apparently was refusing to give wartime supplies to Indonesia at one stage, it now admits that at that time it was continuing to make those supplies available to the Indonesian Government. We have not been guilty of any such deception, but I believe that successive governments in this country, and particularly the previous Government, will have a lot to answer for in the future. We may be seen to have been somewhat too complacent about this matter. 
I believe that since the last war we have had a continuing obligation to the Timorese people. I have said before and I will say again now that we continue to have that obligation to them. There are only 600,000 Timorese, but after all we are only 13 million here and if we were attacked we too would expect people to come to our aid. 
I believe that the Government will continue to press for proper decisions in regard to the reunion of Timorese families in this country, and there are many of them, and that would be seen as an improvement. I trust that we will press further for the International Red Cross to go into Timor and see what is going on there. We must continue to regard this matter as being one in which we have very substantial obligations. Whilst I regret the decision that was made, it was a matter of judgment so far as the Government was concerned, and I believe that it in no way lessens our obligations to or interest in the area. 
The third matter with which I wish to deal is the continuing state of unemployment, which we must recognise as being a heavy responsibility and one on which we should concentrate very thoroughly in this Parliament. Undoubtedly unemployment amongst migrants is higher than unemployment amongst other sections of the population, and that is a matter of considerable concern. So also is the problem of unemployment amongst the youth of the community. I have spoken about this subject in previous speeches and I refer to it again, although I will not go into the detail one should give to such an important subject. People who have finished their period of education and who in many cases are not properly trained for jobs in the community in the first year or so after they complete their education are in a tremendously important formative stage. If we do not provide them with proper and worthwhile employment opportunities in this country we socially endanger the future of that generation. Those people cannot sit about without worthwhile employment without great damage being done to our community. I believe that the Government and the Parliament will treat that matter with great urgency. 
In the three years ahead of us we have important things to consider so far as the Constitution of this country is concerned. In the last few years we have found some weaknesses and obscurities in our constitutional situation. We have not yet found solutions to those problems. We have perhaps reduced some of the great heat which existed at the time of the consitutional crisis on 11 November 1975. 
Yes, I agree very much with  Senator Mulvihill.  We did get broad agreement. In fact we even got a 62 per cent vote for the fourth referendum, although it did not get the necessary four-State majority but achieved a three-all result. However, the substantial support gained I think indicates very favourably that we ought now to get on to the more difficult areas and try to find solutions to problems such as the relationship between the two Houses of the Parliament. What will happen in another crisis? We should not leave these things until there are differences of a parliamentary nature between one House and another, with different parties controlling the two Houses. We must get on to these issues and try to find dialogue and solutions, whether through the Constitutional Convention or through our individual activities. I would like to see, among other reforms, fixed terms for the Parliament. It seems to me that we have too many elections and too early elections in this country. I think that we ought soon to come to a situation where we know when elections will be held. This is not a revolutionary proposal; it is something which the United States of America has had throughout its history. I can find nothing in the Westminster system of government that requires, for example, a Prime Minister to have some special right to choose, in consultation with the Governor-General, a time when there should be an election. I think it would be very useful as one possible solution to our problems if we had a fixed term, we knew where we were and we knew when the elections would be. 
But that is just one of many issues that I think ought to be looked at quite fearlessly in the time ahead. A question has been raised about the financial interests of members of Parliament and others and  Sir Nigel  Bowen is making an inquiry into this matter. It was pointed out today that we had a report of this Parliament some time ago, but I believe there is a criticism of that report that it may not be practical in its proposals. It will not do any harm to have a further investigation of this matter by an eminent judge. It is important that we do look into these questions. Here again we must put aside some of our party differences and consider not whether it is in our interests or someone else 's interests but what is better for the working of our democratic system. 
Having recently been in the United States of America and Japan and having looked at their political systems and the way in which members of Parliament are paid and political parties financed, I am not too happy that we should follow along their lines. So many countries not only have control or disclosure of the pecuniary interests of members of Parliament, but have even reached the situation where political parties are to some extent financed by the country. I think this should be looked at also in order to ascertain whether it would be practical in this country. So much money is spent on television and other political expenditures and political parties are so dependent on outside resources that I think it is somewhat dangerous to the democratic system and we must find some bipartisan approach if we are to achieve some reform. I mention these areas at this time because I believe that as we proceed into this Parliament we have a great obligation. 
We as a Government have been elected by a very strong majority and that is an important thing. I acknowledge that this does not mean that governments should just make up their own minds and parliaments meekly follow. The Parliament- and the Senate in particular as a house of review- must, I think, be considering legislation very carefully and making up its own mind. It is important that we each do our duty, that we develop our systems of committees in this Senate particularly to a more effective range and that the Parliament work better in this democratic era. 
With these things in mind I hope that the three years of this Parliament will increase the Parliament's standing in the eyes of the people. I do not regard it as very high. We see denigration every day. It is very easy for a member of the Press to have a go at members of the Parliament. I believe that most of my colleagues on both sides of the chamber work very hard and that they are in fact desirous of trying to help effectively the operation of democracy in this country. It is up to us in our legislation and in our speeches to enhance the jurisdiction and the respect which the people hold for this Parliament. I hope that I can contribute a little bit to that improvement and I hope that this debate overall will contribute ideas that we can use in the next three years of this Government. 
I direct the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources to the statement by  Mr Graham  McKenzie, research officer of the Australian Wine Board, as reported in the  Australian  of 20 
February 1978. that pans of the wine industry face disaster and there will be a surplus of 50,000 tonnes of top-quality grapes this year. Is the Minister aware of the almost total absence of goodquality Australian wines in Japanese hotels? What efforts is the Government making to promote the sale of Australian wines in Japan and other Asian countries with rising standards of living and expanding tourist activity? 
I address a question to the Minister for Education. I refer to a report in the Melbourne  Sun  of 23 January which detailed allegations made by  Mr Sandy  Thomas, who was then Regional Organiser for the Australian Union of Students, that a department of the AUS was channelling funds to the Malaysian Communist Party. I. ask: Is the Minister aware of this report and, if so, has he made any investigations into this or related matters? What will the Minister do to ensure that the future expenditure by the AUS of moneys compulsorily acquired from tertiary students is spent solely in the interests of students as students? 
-Will the Minister for Administrative Services advise whether the new Ford Fairmont motor vehicles acquired recently for Commonwealth transport in Canberra include power steering and a radio but no airconditioning? Were the experienced Commonwealth drivers or their union consulted prior to the purchase to ascertain which of these facilities would be of the greatest assistance and concern for drivers and their passengers? Does the Minister agree with the complaints I have made repeatedly to him that the absence of air-conditioning in Commonwealth vehicles in warm climates is a source of extreme discomfort to passengers, and especially to drivers who spend long hours in the vehicle? Does the Minister agree that the inclusion of air-conditioning in newly-acquired vehicles substantially increases their resale value on replacement? When will the Minister authorise the installation of air-conditioning in Commonwealth vehicles in the interests of public health and safety and to provide elementary justice to Commonwealth drivers? 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. I refer to the Criminal Investigation Bill of 1977 which was a Bill to implement the report of the Australian Law Reform Commission and which, as the AttorneyGeneral knows, was the subject of considerable representations by a wide cross-section of opinion and subsequent investigation and recommendations by the Law and Government Committee of the Government parties. I ask: Has the Government considered the detailed recommendations of that Committee? When can the Senate expect the reintroduction of the Criminal Investigation Bill in the Parliament? 
I would like to comment on  Senator Cavanagh  's remarks. I was a little puzzled also by some of the comments of the Attorney-General as to how wide this amendment could go with regard to records that are held in the mind and so forth. The documents are to be used for the purposes of proceedings, which are defined and which definition  Senator Button  seeks to make somewhat wider. The Bill states: 
Proceeding' means a proceeding before the High Court or any court (other than a court of a Territory) created by the Parliament. 
That is the definition in the Bill at the present time. 'Business' also is defined in the Bill. The records of businesses are to be produced and to be proved in the proceedings that take place. I would have thought that trade unions would fall within the definition of 'business' as 'any business, profession, occupation, calling, trade or undertaking'. The whole purpose of the Bill isinstead of people having to produce the makers of the statements who may be dead or may be many different people- to enable them to produce the actual record. I would have thought that the definition did include those circumstances, where the documents were to be proved in a proceeding, and that that inclusion was desirable. 
I draw the attention of the Committee to four matters in regard to this clause generally. Last year when the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs was considering the Evidence (Australian Capital Territory) Bill the adviser to the Committee,  Mr P.  Waight, a recognised authority on evidence matters attached to the Law School of the Australian National University, wrote to the Committee on 26 October 1977. He commented on four aspects of this clause of the Bill. I believe that at the time a copy of that letter was made available to the AttorneyGeneral's Department. I do not think that it has come to the attention of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  I regret that it was only this morning that I realised that this matter had been raised and ought to be mentioned in debate. I have made copies of the letter available to the Attorney-General and to  Senator Button.  For convenience I seek leave to incorporate the letter from  Mr Waight  in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 

Law School, 
Australian National University. A.C.T. 26 October, 1977. 

 Mr Michael Dixon, Secretary, Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. 
Dear  Mr Dixon, 
The Evidence Amendment Bill 1 977. 
I have recently perused the above Bill, and would like to draw your attention to the following matters: 
Clause 7 B (2) speaks of the rules against hearsay and secondary evidence: it is generally said that there is only a rule against hearsay or secondary evidence (although in each case there are many exceptions to it); 
Clause 7 C (2) (b) does not seem to allow the Court to vary its earlier order if it is found impossible or difficult to comply with it; 
the definition of 'computer' in the Evidence Ordinance 1971 and the Evidence (Australian Capital Territory) Bill is far wider than the definition of the term contained in clause 7K(5); 
Clause 7Q seems to confine the Courts discretion to the case where the probative value of the evidence is low- normally a Court has also got a discretion to exclude evidence where that evidence has been illegally or unfairly obtained, even though that evidence may be of high probative value. Ireland (170) 126 C.L.R. 32 1 . Although I am making this comment I do realise that this second discretion would only rarely be applicable to the admissibility of business records'). 
Yours faithfully P. WAIGHT 
-I shall refer to the four matters briefly. As I understand the AttorneyGeneral's remarks this morning, consideration is being given to some of the amendments and other courses may be taken in respect of them. I feel that these four matters ought to be considered, although at this stage I am not moving any amendments. The first is a small matter. Proposed new section 7 B (2) refers to the rules against hearsay and secondary evidence. In his letter to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs,  Mr Waight  said:  it is generally said that there is only a rule against hearsay or secondary evidence (although in each case there are many exceptions to it) 
It is merely a matter of language. Perhaps that should be corrected. He speaks secondly of proposed new section 7C(2)(b) which provides that if a document is not produced in accordance with the requirement the court may reject the statement or, if it has received it, exclude it. The point made by  Mr Waight  is that this is perhaps too demanding. In fact, it does not allow the court to vary its earlier orders if it is found impossible or difficult to comply with them. Perhaps that is too directive a requirement, limiting the court in what it may do as in certain circumstances it might not want to reject the document. 
The third matter raised by  Mr Waight  relates to the definition of'computer'. This is contained in proposed new section 7K (5). It reads: 
For the purposes of this section, 'computer' means any device for storing or processing information. 

 Mr Waight said that the definition in the Australian Capital Territory Evidence Ordinance 1971 and the Evidence (Australian Capital Territory) Bill is far wider than the definition set out in this particular clause. If this is so, perhaps there should be some uniformity between the two sets of legislation, that relating to the Australian Capital Territory and that relating to evidence generally as this Bill does. I merely invite the Attorney's attention to whether a wider definition of 'computer', if there is one, should be included in this Bill. 
The last of the four matters raised by  Mr Waight  relates to proposed new section 7Q, which appears on page 8 and reads: 
This Part does not affect the power of a court in a criminal proceeding to reject evidence which, if admitted, would operate unfairly against the defendant. 
The point which  Mr Waight  made was that this is a discretion which the court would exercise when the value of the probative evidence was rather low. Normally a court has a discretion also to exclude evidence illegally or unfairly obtained, even though it may be of very high probative value. This discretion is not covered in proposed new section 7Q. I invite comment on whether this ground for the rejection of evidence should be included in the Bill also.  Mr Waight  pointed out that it is not very likely that this second discretion would arise very often in cases involving the admissibility of business records, to which this whole Bill relates. Nonetheless, it is a ground which can lead to the rejection of evidence and it is not included in the Bill. I do not know whether the Attorney desires to make any comments on these matters, but I hope that before the legislation is finalised there will be consideration of these matters which have been raised by a person with some interest and experience in the laws of evidence. 
My question is addressed to the Acting Minister for Veterans' Affairs. I refer to the denial of fringe benefits in the service pension area to ex-members of the Commonwealth forces who are now Australian citizens. Is it true that the Repatriation Act was amended in 1975 to extend the provision of fringe benefits to these ex-servicemen? Is it also true that, due to the failure of the Government to make corresponding amendments to the National Health Act, the same citizens cannot actually obtain the relevant benefits? Is the Minister aware of this anomaly? Is he willing to promote legislative changes to ensure that such fringe benefits are effectively enjoyed by these ex-servicemen? 
-What the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  said makes me feel that something further should be said. He concluded that members know the conditions under which they come into this place. Obviously that comment was directed at the independent members. Yet we have just come into a new Parliament. It is true that the major change in the complexion of the Senate will not take place until 1 July. At the same time, if there is a change in the composition of the Parliament or a chamber it ought to be reflected, as it would be in the House of Commons, in the parliamentary committees by other groups being given some notice in the making of appointments to Committees. If the Opposition becomes weaker in numbers and independent groups become stronger in numbers, presumably the representation on committees should vary. 
Surely we should not accept the very conservative view which the Leader of the Opposition put to us today that this matter must be dealt with in a fixed way, that people come into Parliament as a member of a party or as an independent and know where they stand, and that is the end of it. Surely the complexion of the committees of the Senate must vary according to the makeup of the Senate. I think some case is made out for this matter being looked at further by the Standing Orders Committee. 
The Senate is asked to concur in the appointments to joint committees by an arrangement which is made by the House of Representatives. I see a difficulty with representation on these committees. I think we ought to keep open the possibility of considering as a right representation on committees of senators who are not members of the three major parties. What  Senator Wood  said is right. All the views of the Senate ought to be reflected as far as possible on committees. It may be that if an independent member wants to serve on a standing committee an extra government member ought to be appointed to that committee. This would preserve the balance of representation. It would not deprive any Opposition member now serving on a committee of his or her position on the committee, but it would give an opportunity for service by others. The Standing Orders Committee should consider whether senators who are not members of the major parties should take pan in the committee system of the Senate. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (4.16)-  Mr President,  I would like to intervene very shortly in the matter that has been raised by  Senator Harradine.  One simple fact has been overlooked. I assume that it is the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence about which  Senator Harradine  is concerned. I remember when the original proposition was put forward by Lord Casey for the setting up of a foreign affairs committee. The matter originated in the House of Representatives. Since that day. of course, the messages concerning the appointment of members to this Committee and other such committees have always come from the House of Representatives after each House of Representatives election; but over at least the last 10 or 12 years my colleagues in this chamber have taken the view that the Senate is a House in constitutional life irrespective of the dissolution of the House of Representatives. Hence the majority party in the Senate has assumed the position, I believe properly, that senators sitting on a joint committee prior to the dissolution of the House of Representatives are still members of that committee in the new Parliament because the Senate is a House which has power and authority irrespective of whether the House of Representatives is dissolved or not. 
Whether we should have a substantive debate about whether  Senator Harradine  should be on a joint committee has nothing to do with the matter. According to the practice of the Senate, senators who are sitting on a committee prior to the dissolution of the House of Representatives are still members of that committee or are automatically put back on it in the new Parliament, until such time as a new Senate sits in this place. Therefore I suggest that  Senator Georges'  idea that the matter be referred to the Standing Orders Committee is a way out at the moment. I agree with  Senator Wriedt  quite firmly and emphatically that no honourable senator should make way for  Senator Harradine  until such time as a new Senate comes to a conclusion about how these matters should be dealt with and how appointments to committees should be made. 
-I think that this debate should be put into context. Whilst I agree with most of the things that have been said and with most of the urgency expressed in the speeches of honourable senators, perhaps they do not altogether appreciate the fact that we are not creating a new committee. This matter relates to the re-establishment of a committee which- as you well know,  Mr President,  from the constant work which you and  Mr Speaker  and members of the Committee have been doing- has been in constant and very active operation during the past year or two. In this debate there seems to be a feeling that, as  Senator Douglas  McClelland said, if we do not get on with the establishment of a new and permanent Parliament House we might be the laughing stock of the community. The fact is that we have been getting on with it; the work has been proceeding according to the plans set out as a guide by the Committee. 
I said that it is easy for one to gain the wrong impression about this matter. The Melbourne Herald of last Saturday contained an article by Peter Costigan, head of its Canberra bureau. 1 regret to say that it was a fairly uninformed article on this subject and gave the impression, among other things, that the mockup design of the future building was a precise design. As yet no determination has been made on the size of the structure or its appearance.  Mr Costigan  appears to have been misled by the mockup design, which was intended merely to indicate the nature of what might emerge. The previous Joint Standing Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House has been determining the internal needs of the building. It has been considering the very issues which honourable senators have mentioned today- for example, the needs of a number of political parties for which the building will have to cater. 
The matter raised by  Senator Gietzelt  concerning the fact that the building might have to meet the needs of four or five political parties has been within the considerations of the Committee. The Committee realised that the building would have to cater for the complexions of the parties many years ahead. So this is not a new consideration; it is not new to the Committee. 
As one who served on the Committee in the previous Parliament and who hopes to serve on the Committee when it is re-established, I believe that this aspect has been kept very much in mind by the Committee. As you know,  Mr President,  that Committee met throughout last year. I think it met weekly. I think that hardly a week went by, except during recess, when the Committee did not meet to work its way through a massive brief concerning the requirements of a new and permanent Parliament House. These considerations are essential. We cannot yet see the results in the form of bricks and mortar, but this work was carried out and, I think, was desirable. I regret that the Melbourne  Herald  stated in its editorial on Monday, 6 March: 
So, once again, the question has been raised of a new and permanent Parliament House. This time the Minister Tor the Capital Territory,  Mr Ellicott,  has sponsored a joint committee of both Houses to plan the project. What the new building would cost taxpayers is anybody's guess . . . 
This editorial contains the misconception that the building of a new and permanent Parliament House is a new idea which emanated from the Minister for the Capital Territory,  Mr Ellicott.  The fact is that years ago the site of the building was decided by an overwhelming vote. The Joint Standing Committee on the New and Permanent 
Parliament House was given the task of reconsidering and redrafting decisions made in 1970. and it has been performing that task. It has been considering modern-day requirements for such a building. Therefore, the matters which have been raised are not new. 
I think that the statements by  Senator Chaney  and other honourable senators with respect to the present problem of accommodation are true. This matter is very urgent. It is important that honourable members and honourable senators have adequate accommodation, particularly when one bears in mind, as was pointed out by  Senator Chaney,  that the Remuneration Tribunal is prepared to recognise the need of honourable members and honourable senators, for example, to have some staff in Canberra to provide assistance. We have a ridiculous situation of executives- as we all are- having no assistants whatsoever in this place. Our staff has to be located elsewhere where we cannot see them for most of the week. These issues should be considered urgently and should not wait upon the building and eventual opening of a new and permanent Parliament House. 
The Committee has been working on the basis that the building ought to open in 1988; that is the time scale set in the Committee's planning. As  Senator Chaney  and others pointed out, there are needs which cannot wait until then to be fulfilled. There are important issues with respect to accommodation. 
It seems to have been implicit in this debate that we are establishing a new committee; that it is starting from nowhere. It is not starting from nowhere; the matters with which it will be dealing have been under consideration for some time. These considerations were interrupted by the recent general election. I trust that that work will resume very quickly according to plan. Those considerations would have been interrupted by a general election regardless of whether it had been held last year or this year. So I do not imagine that the time lost due to the general election will make any great difference to the plans we had in mind and the time factor envisaged. 
I do not think that there is any risk that this Committee will be looked at as a laughing stock, as was suggested by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. To my mind, the work done by the previous committee dealing with this matter and the reports already presented by it under the joint presidency of you,  Mr President,  and  Mr Speaker  have stood the test, and the work done and reports presented by this Committee will continue to stand the test. Whilst all the contributions which have been made in this debate are desirable, I think that we should not fall into the trap of thinking that work on this objective is not proceeding as it ought to proceed so that we will have in 1988 a Parliament House which is worthy of the Australian people. 
Debate interrupted. 
-This is a rather curious item. This position arose last year when I presented a petition in respect of which the  Clerk  was not prepared to give a certificate. The Standing Orders Committee comes to the surprising conclusion that the provision in Standing Order 76, that a petition when presented must bear the Clerk's certificate that it is in conformity with the Standing Orders, should continue. I do not know who suggested that it should not continue. I do not know of any suggestion that the Standing Order ought to be altered in any way. When this matter arose last year and the certificate was not signed by the  Clerk  I moved the suspension of Standing Orders to enable the petition to be presented. That motion did not come on for debate before the elections and the matter has lapsed. Certainly I do not intend to raise it now; it is a dead issue. The issue was whether a senator was entitled to proceed with a petition in respect of which the  Clerk  was not prepared to give a certificate even though the petition had been put in by somebody who wanted it read and the senator considered, as I did, that it was a proper petition- one which ought to be presented as the constituents desired and one which they were to have presented. At present there is the power to adopt that procedure. One can move the suspension of Standing Orders and I would do it again in exactly the same circumstances. This item does no more than say that the Standing Order should remain. I have never heard anyone suggest that it should not remain. I do not know what it is all about or why we are bothering to note it, but if we do note it, does it matter? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Health to an article in the Melbourne  Age  of 22 February about the sad and disturbing problem of cot deaths in Australia. It is claimed that they total about 500 a year. Is it correct, as alleged by  Mrs Kaaren  FitzGerald of the Sudden Infant Death Research Foundation, that there is virtually no research into the cot death problem? Is the Minister willing to support national research into this problem? Will the Government appropriate funds to this end? 
-I join with  Senator Button  in supporting the second reading of the Crimes (Foreign Incursions and Recruitment) Bill. I think it is a necessary Bill and one whose purposes were recognised on the previous occasion when it was before the Senate. However, it contained difficulties and defects which I think we have now overcome substantially. It is important to realise that the purposes which are to be served by this Bill, namely, the prohibition of persons preparing for or engaging in incursions into a foreign country, are necessary. People who leave this country or who are connected with this country and proceed into another country and cause death or destruction can cause a great deal of danger and embarrassment to this country, and we should not be seen to countenance that. The second purpose, namely, to prohibit the recruiting in Australia of persons to serve in the armed forces of a foreign country, is likewise one which I think it is desirable to prohibit. Of course, there is an exception to this and that has been referred to by  Senator Button. 
The genuine difficulties which arose in the previous debate and which were exposed by honourable senators from both sides of the chamber especially at the Committee of the Whole stage of consideration of the legislation have been largely overcome, I hope. The Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs of which I was  Chairman  considered this Bill. It was given a very short period in which to do so. I believe it traversed the matters which were raised. It had the value of submissions from two honourable senators and also an unfortunately late submission from  Senator Wright. His  submission arrived after we had completed the report but we had a chance to consider it verbally. We felt that we had covered the major matters which he raised in that submission and that the amendments which we suggested adequately picked up the points that he raised. 
If one looks briefly at the Bill as it now stands, one appreciates that the Government has very carefully amended the Bill in suitable ways. I briefly mention the matters. The fact that there is now a definition of 'government' in the Bill takes away a great deal of the uncertainty which existed. 'Government' means a government recognised by the Government of Australia as the lawful government of that foreign country. That is a matter which can easily be proved in court proceedings. There is no longer the great obscurity which there would have been if that word had been left undefined. 
Clause 6 of the Bill deals with incursions and prohibits people either entering or engaging in a foreign country in hostile activity against the government of that country. It is now made clear under clause 9 of the Bill that the Minister has the right to exclude such actions and that he may make a declaration that service in a country is not to be taken as an offence. These two clauses now hold together and, in fact, nobody will be charged with an offence under clause 6 after they have received a declaration under clause 9 that such an activity is valid. 
The connection between the two is that clause 6(4) states: 
Nothing in this section applies to an Act done by a person in the course of, and as part of, his service in any capacity in or with- 
The armed forces of the government of a foreign country- 
That is the important addition- 
Any other armed force in respect of which a declaration by the Minister under sub-section 9 (2) is in force. 
The first provision covers a situation where somebody may be serving, for example, in the Israeli Army in the Entebbe situation. The second of those two exceptions is one where our own Minister makes a declaration under subclause 9 (2). That declaration is made by an instrument signed by the Minister and published in the  Gazette  declaring that it is in the interests of the defence or international relations of Australia to permit the recruitment in Australia, either generally or in particular circumstances, of persons to serve in or with a specified armed force. The sub-clause goes on to give further examples. I believe that series of amendments reaches a situation where there is no possible conflict between the two clauses of the Bill. Furthermore, the amendments to clause 9 pick up the matters which were raised and requested by the Senate Committee in its report. Sub-clause 9(4) makes it clear- I think the Government had already agreed to this in debate- that any declarations made under the Act would be under the terms of the Acts Interpretation Act which means that the declarations could be disallowed in the Senate or the House of Representatives. The same provisions would apply to them as if they were regulations. That is a significant improvement in the Bill. 
The Senate Committee also made a recommendation which is covered by sub-clause 9(5). We suggested that there ought to be a definition of advertisement. The question was asked: What does it mean by an advertisement in which one would seek recruits for service in a foreign country? There was a problem that items might appear as news items and therefore not come within the definition of advertisement. The Government in this Bill has not defined 'advertisement '. What it has done is to say: 
For the purposes of this section, the publication of an item of news shall be deemed to constitute the publication of an advertisement if the publication was procured by the payment of, or by the promise to pay, money or by the provision of, or by the promise to provide, any other consideration. 
In other words, where it is not a genuine news item but is something which is paid for and which is in reality an advertisement, that would be encompassed in the actions forbidden under the Act. 
There is a further amendment to clause 10. Clause 1 1 has been removed. I understand that that does not come within the recommendations of the Senate Committee. As I read the clause it appears that there will have to be a trial and indictment. It is a very serious charge which comes within the Act. It is also clear from clause 10 that now the consent of the Attorney-General must be obtained. In view of the seriousness of the charge, I believe it is wise that that should be done. It should not be left to some other officer. Consequently, I suggest that the Government has amended this Bill in such a way that it now ought to receive the acceptance of the Parliament. The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  has spoken about the report which the Senate Committee submitted. Perhaps we have given some example of the value of the working of the Senate committee system. We have changed the situation from a state of great confusion to one where it appears- we do not know whether there will be further confusion- that some acceptable solutions have been found. I hope that this type of activity by Senate committees will not be so much the exception in the future and that we will, in fact, see a greater use of the committee system to unravel the difficulties which arise in debate and which are properly put forward by honourable senators. I realise that these recommendations will not satisfy all honourable senators but I believe that the Bill as it now stands is important. It is desirable that we should pass it. I think the Bill is now reasonably incapable of confusion and that it ought to have the acceptance of the Australian people. 
-It would be a great relief to know that though  Senator Wright  and I might be killed at least we would go down without breaking any Australian law. 
I am not often comforted by  Senator Wheeldon  but I am on this occasion. I support what he said and take it one step further. The proposed prohibition against incursions relates to persons entering a foreign country and engaging in a hostile activity against the government of that country. If we recognise that government as the lawful government of the country we have an obligation to maintain it. It is a recognition that the people of Australia give to the government of another country.  Senator Wheeldon  pointed out that some countries have governments whose control we do not recognise. This would, of course, be a fraction of the area of the world. We will not reach a situation of total agreement in that area. Surely, when we recognise the lawful government of a country, even if we do not like that Government, we should take action to stop our citizens from doing these things. Insofar as we have done that in this Bill and have not covered all the peculiar things that might happen in the world it is not an argument against the Bill. The Bill in itself is good but it cannot cover all situations, for instance where there may be an obscure and foggy situation as to the actual government of a country. 
I think the criticisms that have been made are quite misconceived. As I see it, an example would be the service in Korea by Australians in United Nations forces. There would be probably other-- 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! I have called  Senator Missen. 
They did serve in an international force. One may call it the Australian Army but it was an international force as well. I imagine that other circumstances could arise where forces would be raised and where they would have the support of the Australian people and the Australian Government. This is not the imprimatur of the Minister or the Government. One of the things that the Bill does is to make it quite clear that under the Acts Interpretation Act such proclamations will be regulations in effect and subject to disallowance, not by just the Senate but by either House of the Parliament. They will have to be laid on the tables of the Houses and will be subject to disallowance. If that is not good enough insurance that any such decision will be subject to consideration by the Parliament, I do not know what is. It seems to me that it is clear that this is not going to be some unilateral decision by any Minister or any government, but something over which the Parliament will have full control and which the Parliament will be able to disallow if it so sees fit. 
-A different point has now been raised, but I should like to return to the point raised by  Senator Coleman,  although I know that the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  has already replied to it. Is it not a fact that sub-clause (3) of clause 10 ensures that the extra rights provided in subclause (2) for people to be charged, arrested and remanded do not prevent the discharge of an accused if he is kept for more than a reasonable time? A court always has a right to take action where there is a want of prosecution or failure to prosecute properly, but is this sub-clause not a further protection to the individual to ensure that whilst these other things may be done while the consent of the Attorney-General is being obtained, an accused person is not prevented from being discharged where there is an unreasonable and unconscionable delay in the prosecution? From that point of view, surely the sub-clauses afford a greater protection to the individual? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing both the Acting Minister for Trade and Resources and the Minister for Defence. I refer to a report in the Melbourne  Age  of 21 February relating to allegations by  Mr Keith  Souter that section 4 ( 1 ) of the Approved Defence Projects Protection Act 1947 could be invoked to make the mining of uranium a defence project rather than a strict engineering project. Is it a fact that section 4 ( 1 ) of that Act makes it an offence to boycott or encourage the prevention or obstruction of any approved defence project? Is the Minister aware of these allegations? Is it proposed to invoke the Approved Defence Projects Protection Act? Does the Minister believe that the use of this law would improperly restrict the level of public debate in Australia about uranium mining? 
I join with  Senator Button  in raising this matter tonight. We were guests last Saturday of the Timorese community in Melbourne so that we could hear its problems and discuss with it what seemed to me to be a sharp and real problem. It is one about which that community has not protested throughout the length and breadth of the country. It appeared to me that its members are quiet and polite people. They are almost timid people. They quietly made their point of view clear. They are also a sad people. They belong to broken families in many respects. They are people who see no way clear to repair the damage to families which they are suffering at present. The  150  to  200  people, including many children, who came there were, I think, people who are very thankful for the opportunity of living in Australia. They do not moan about that fact. They are appreciative of that situation. But at the same time they realise that they have grave social problems, terrible problems, because of the failure to achieve any reunion of families in Australia. I shall not repeat what  Senator Button  has said. I agree with what he said. I think it is a fair description of the situation. But as he mentioned, there was a petition which some  60  of the adults present had signed, and in it they set out their feelings about the situation. I think it is of interest to members of the Senate to incorporate in  Hansard  the original of that document. I seek leave to have it incorporated. 
Leave granted.  77ie*  document read as follows- 
PETITION 
ADDRESSED TO: SENATORS JOHN BUTTON AND ALLAN MISSEN 
We, the undersigned, Timorese refugees in Australia very respectfully submit to you the following: 
Because of the political-military events in Timor, we necessarily took refuge in Australia, abandoning our birthplace and therein all of value that we possessed, including our close relatives. 
In Australia where we arrived about 30 months ago, we were well received by the Australian people, to whom we are eternally grateful. Here we have built up new friendships, obtained work that provides us with our daily bread and which allows us to face the future with confidence, and so start a new life free of worries and uncertainties. 
It now happens that though we have a tranquil and promising future, another acute and threateningly difficult problem arises, for which reason we approach and request your help, Sirs. We feel that you, by being uncompromising defenders of Human Rights, might be able to help us in obtaining a positive and just solution which will put an end to our anguish and suffering. 
In Timor among our close relations, we find our husbands, sons, parents, brothers, and other families still suffering the anguish and horrors of a cruel war that has sown death and destruction among our people, respecting neither age, nor sex, family ties, nor friendships. 
It happens that we are now permanent residents of Australia. Consequently we desire that our families joint us. 
Although we have been plighting for more than two years to both the Australian and Indonesian governments to get our relatives to come out of East Timor and join us in Australia, it appears that neither of them are interested in helping up. The Indonesians are trapping our relatives in East Timor and it seems that the Australian government has given its acquiescence to that inhumanitarian attitude. 
We are feeling desperate and frustrated with that situation of impass and our confidence is becoming so depressed that we don't know which way to turn. 
You are known amongst our community as great friends, not only of East Timor, but also of the Timorese people. For this reason, we have seen you as our hope to the end of this suffering. 
We are asking whether this petition could be read at the next session of Parliament, and this matter brought up with the federal cabinet and foreign representatives in Canberra to see if something can be done towards the resolution of this complex problem. 
Finally, we would like to thank you very much for the opportunity we have been given to meet you here today. 
March 11, 1978. 
-I thank the Senate. I shall add a little to the comments on the problems that have been mentioned. As I said, the real problem is the reunion of families and that is what is worrying the people more than anything. Of course there is a problem which these people have as newcomers to Australia- the fears, the language difficulties and the difficulties of getting accustomed to Australian ways. All these things are emphasised even more by reason of the fact that these people are mostly women and children. Many do not have in Australia a father or husband, as  Senator Button  has pointed out, who can adopt the role which is natural in a Timorese community where the father makes decisions about education, the home and other matters. The wives, forced with their difficulties and responsibilities, have to try to take over these jobs and they find it difficult. These are urgent problems for them. They are concentrating therefore on getting their husbands and other members of their families back with them as soon as possible. They see a drift, a lack of action on the part of the Australian Government that has not yet achieved any substantial reunification of their families. 
Matters which they raised very strongly relate to the immigration team which we hope will soon go to Timor. This has long been coming. It was promised that we would have an opportunity to send people from our Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs to Timor to investigate those who want to come here. They will then come back, report and make some arrangements. I note that in a reply to a question which  Senator Button  asked on 3 June last year  Senator Guilfoyle  said: 
The arrangements for reuniting East Timorese now in Australia with their relatives either in Australia or in East Timor follow from an agreement between the  President  of Indonesia and the Prime Minister of Australia that officials of their two countries would meet to resolve the problems of the East Timorese 'refugees' who had come to Australia without their parents. 
The Indonesian authorities have given their agreement in principle to a visit by Australian officials to East Timor to interview migrant applications sponsored - 
That still awaits. The situation is that we do not have a team. We have not reached a situation where any of our specialists can go there and see the position. The thing which concerns the Timorese people in Melbourne is that when this team does go it should be accompanied by an interpreter from the Timorese community so that there can be no doubt that our officials are being given the real answers by the people who are there. The Timorese also are highly concerned about the safety of their relatives who may well be intimidated and forced not to tell their real wishes to the people who go there. 
They are concerned that there ought to be prior notification to the people who are to be interviewed. Timor is a difficult country in which people are far distant from points of contact. Therefore, arrangements must be made so that people know that the team is coming there and so that the people can gather. There probably will need to be some acknowledgment from them as to whether they have received notification that their relatives in Australia want them to be interviewed and want them to proceed with their applications. I suppose that it will require that photographs be taken to ensure that the people actually interviewed are the people the immigration team wants to interview. All these are problems which were raised with us and which concern these people. So when the governments of the two countries reach agreement that an immigration team should go there, we should ensure that such a team does not cause greater danger to the people there but that it interviews people who desire to come to this country and whom we desire to come to this country. 

 Senator Button referred also to the refugees who are in Portugal. In fact, something like one million refugees in Portugal have come from various overseas territories. Portugal is a poor country and is not capable of properly absorbing migration of that magnitude. In all only about 1,500 people in the camps are Timorese refugees. This was pointed out by  Mr James  Dunn in his report on his investigations in Portugal some 15 months ago. In that report, which is recorded in Senate  Hansard  for 23 March 1977,  Mr Dunn  pointed out that at that time there were only about 1,500 Timorese refugees in Portugal. He went on to state: 
About 95 per cent of the Timorese wish to come to Australia where more than a third of them are said to have relatives, most of whom came to Australia as refugees from Timor in August 1975. Apart from the family reunion aspect, the main reasons they gave for wanting to come to Australia were: better prospects for employment and resettlement; their desire to live in a climate more akin to that of Timor; and a general wish to live not very far from Timor, with a view to re-establishing contact with friends and relatives when access to the territory is eventually permitted by Indonesia. 
I do not think the numbers have changed very much since that time. The situation, as I see it, is that surely we can take into this country a substantial number of these people. I understand that we have taken a mere trickle up to the present. We have had quite a long period in which to accept people. Of course, we have had some of them interviewed. I believe that the standards laid down by our Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs for allowing these refugees to come from Portugal to Australia are altogether too strict. Apparently very few of these refugees are allowed into Australia. I have been told by people I saw the other day that some of the refugees have suffered sickness because the food is not satisfactory in the camps in Portugal. These people are living in very poor conditions there and some have fallen sick and some have infectious diseases. Those disabilities are being used as an excuse to stop these people from coming here. We might have to ensure that their infectious diseases have been cured, but surely we should not be stopping these people from coming here for this reason. Surely we should recognise this as a more compassionate reason why we should be concerned to see that these people do not have to live in a country where, although they might be Portuguese citizens, they have no common social background with the Portuguese people. Many cannot speak Portuguese. They are stuck in camps in Portugal unable to be properly absorbed into the community there. 
I believe that we can do much better in Australia; that we have a duty to take a great number of these people. We should not be imposing a strict definition of 'family' or 'family relationships' and saying that because people who do not have family in Australia should not be able to come here. I refer to a document to which  Senator Button  referred which was prepared by the Australian Council for Overseas Aid. In that document the Council speaks of family units and family reunions and points out that a degree of affinity has to be permitted, but that in general there might be good reasons for limiting entry to parents and single children. The document goes on to state: 
Nevertheless in view of the widely acknowledged and demonstrable importance of family support systems in times of crisis ACFOA urges that in the case of refugees: 
'families' should be widely interpreted in the terms of the culture and background of the refugees concerned rather than according to the normal criteria of Australian immigration procedures- this would involve the acceptance, appropriate to each particular ethnic group, of degrees of what we might describe as extended families '; 
at the beginning of a refugee movement to Australia every effort should be made to keep families together wherever possible; 
in later stages of resettlement and integration sympathetic consideration should be given to family reunion whether from the country of origin or elsewhere, even when such family members are nondependent. 
I submit that that should be the type of attitude which our authorities ought to be applying in this case and not taking any technical description of dependants or a father-son relationship as being necessary for this to apply. The other day we reviewed many individual cases. I will refer briefly to them. There was one old Chinese man who came from Timor and who wants to go back. His whole philosophy is that his spirit will wander unless he is back in Timor where he can be properly buried when he dies and he will thereby rest. He wants desperately to go back to Timor but arrangements have not yet been made. He is here in Australia without the members of his family and he wants to go back to Timor. 

 Senator Button referred to a young boy, Americo Mousinho, who is 13 years old. He is one of the few in Melbourne who have been denied permanent residence to this stage.  His  family want him to stay here and be educated in Australia. He has a father in Timor and a mother and sister in Portugal. They want him to stay here. He is here with an uncle and other members of his family. Surely the Department could find its way clear to ensure his permanent residence in Australia. Another case deals with a young boy who was sent from Timor to Taiwan before the war to complete his education. Of course, because of the outbreak of the war his father could not support him any longer and he is supported by his brothers in Australia. He is here now on a visitor's visa. He could, of course, study better in Australia and he wants to stay in Australia.  His  family want him to stay here but the Department has rejected his application and has indicated that there is no great hope that he will be allowed to remain. This seems to be unjust and unfair in the circumstances of the case. 
We were told of places where the Department has been unhelpful, where it has had to make inquiries overseas in Hong Kong and other places and it has told people overseas to give information about the residents who are here so that they could reunite families. But when these people go to our High Commission in Hong Kong they find that there is no record of the correspondence and that the Australian Department has not written. These are extra frustrations which are worrying the Timorese refugees in Australia. The other day we saw two ladies who have 10 children between them- they have five each- and whose husbands are in Timor. These women were helping not only to support their children but also they were attempting to help their husbands and other children in Timor by trying to get money through to them. 
These obviously are cases where the sooner the husband can come out to Australia and the family can be re-united the better it will be for all concerned. It is better for the children. The fear these people have is that their children will grow up without the control of a father and they will have problems with them in later life. There were many other cases that we dealt with briefly. If these people had come here by boat as some refugees from Vietnam have done they would probably have been treated in a much more reasonable way. No boats are able to bring refugees from Timor. Therefore, they are waiting on the Australians to put pressure on the Indonesian Government to carry out what it said it was going to do. We may well feel that sufficient pressure has not been applied by the Australian Government to ensure that in the name of humanity something is done about these broken families. 

 Senator Button spoke about Senor Goncalves whom I respect too as someone who has worked for the community. He had been supported financially by the Council for Overseas Aid but it cannot support him any longer. That Council has suggested that the Government should take over this responsibility. I suggest to the Government likewise that it ought to find the money and it must surely be able to find the money to support this man. There are 1,000 people in Melbourne and Victoria alone who are of this community and surely the Government can find the necessary money to have this leader of that community give his full time attention to looking after his people as he has been doing. Surely it saves the Department a lot of work and surely it has saved the Department a lot of work. That alone is a reason for the Government to accept this particular responsibility. 
-Yes, and other departments too. I am sure that there ought to be a case. I do not think we are sufficiently accepting our responsibility in regard to these matters. In my contribution to the debate on the AddressinReply on 22 February I said: 
I believe that since the last war we have had a continuing obligation to the Timorese people. I have said before and I will say again now that we continue to have that obligation to them. There are only 600,000 Timorese but after all we are only 13 million here and if we were attacked we too would expect people to come to our aid. 
I believe that the Government will continue to press for proper decisions in regard to the reunion of Timorese families in this country, and there are many of them, and that would be seen as an improvement. I trust that we will press further for the International Red Cross to go into Timor and see what is going on there. We must continue to regard this matter as being one in which we have very substantial obligations. Whilst I regret the decision that was made - 
That was the matter of recognition- it was a matter of judgment so far as the Government was concerned and I believe that it in no way lessens our obligations to or interest in the area. 
I believe that I should go further than that. I believe it enhances our obligation to the people of Timor, the people who are here, and we should be pressing now to ensure that Indonesia recognises the fact that there is this great social and personal dilemma for people who are separated. Our responsibility as I see it is, firstly, urgent and effective pressure from Australia for the acceptance by Indonesia of an Australian immigration team in Timor and the achievement of early reunion of families from there; secondly, for a more compassionate re-examination of the Portugal refugee program and the bringing from Portugal of many more of the people who are there at the moment and who want to come to Australia; thirdly, pressure for International Red Cross to get back into Timor and also for us to supply aid to these families in Timor; and lastly, support for the Timorese leadership financially in Australia in the way that has been referred to by both  Senator Button  and me so that we will help the people who are here. I believe that the people of this community will be coming to Canberra and shortly will be making representations to the Minister and to the Indonesian Ambassador. They will certainly have our support and I hope they will have support around the Parliament in what they are seeking. I believe that we have not done nearly enough in regard to this matter, and I hope our conscience will be stirred so that we will do better. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. I refer to section 6 (2) (d) of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974 which provides for the public distribution and discussion of environmental impact statements. I ask: Is the Minister aware that, despite this laudable provision, most members of the public cannot obtain copies of environmental impact statements because of the prohibitive price that is charged for them? Is the Minister aware, for example, that the impact statement on the Jabiluka mining proposal is made available to the public at a cost of $2 1? In the light of this, does the Minister believe that the interests of the public would be better served if important publications, such as environmental impact statements, were made more accessible through a lower pricing policy? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the date for presenting the report of the Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on the four matters- Processing law reform proposals; Delegation of parliamentary authority: Priority of Crown debts; and Parliamentary scrutiny of rules of court- be extended until 3 1 August 1978. 
These four matters were referred to the Committee on 21 April 1977. As I mentioned when tabling the Committee's report on outstanding references in November last year, two other matters were subsequently referred to the Committee which required a report back to the Senate at an early date. These were the clauses of the Crimes (Foreign Incursions and Recruitment) Bill 1977 and advisory opinions by the High Court. The Committee reported on these matters and on the Evidence (Australian Capital Territory) Bill 1972 before being able to commence consideration of the four matters referred to it on 21 April 1977. As the Committee had not been able to hear any public evidence on these four matters before the end of the previous Parliament, the Senate granted to the Committee an extension of time until 3 1 March 1 978 to report. 
Since the Committee's reappointment three weeks ago it has already taken some evidence in relation to the matter of processing law reform proposals. As a result, some new avenues of inquiry have been opened up which the Committee will need to pursue. In order to expedite its consideration of these outstanding references the Committee is simultaneously considering the references on processing law reform proposals and priority of Crown debts. A series of public hearings have been planned in relation to the priority of Crown debts. The Committee has necessarily deferred consideration of the references on delegation of parliamentary authority and the parliamentary scrutiny of rules of court until these public hearings are concluded and is seeking additional consideration of these two references. Whilst conscious of the need to report back to the Senate on all references without undue delay, the Committee would be remiss in its duty to inquire adequately into matters referred to it if it did not seek this extension of time in order to complete its consideration of these four matters. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I present the first report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
I address a question to you,  Mr President.  I refer to the placard or painting- whatever it might be- which is now standing in King's Hall, which was alleged to be a gift from New Zealand and which was the subject of a question to a Minister yesterday. In view of the fact that you,  Mr President,  and  Mr Speaker  are responsible for the control of Parliament House, when can the Senate be assured that this unsightly eyesore will be removed from King's Hall so that it will no longer intimidate senators, members or visitors? 
-Senator Tehan and  Senator Button  are in substantial agreement about the reports of the Australian Institute of Criminology and the Criminology Research Council. I am not quite in agreement with either of them. My main criticism about their speeches is the moderation with which they dealt with the reports and the situation of the two organisations. I think there is a serious problem. I do not think that one is presented with a very happy situation when one examines not only the finances of these organisations but also the extent to which they can thereby carry out their functions. I think we are all in agreement that they are very important organisations; that they are playing and can play an enormously valuable role in the community. 
Perhaps it would be worthwhile for me to say first of all what I think has not been said tonight, that is, that there is a difference between these organisations. At first sight it is confusing to people that there is the Australian Institute of Criminology and there is another organisation whose name sounds very like that of the Institute, namely, the Criminology Research Council. Their functions do overlap. We are debating simultaneously the reports of both organisations, which is appropriate. It is worth pointing out in the first place that the Australian Institute of Criminology has on its board of management four members appointed by the AttorneyGeneral and the other three members appointed by the Criminology Research Council. There is certainly a linkage between the two organisations. The Criminology Research Council consists almost entirely of State representatives. There is one representative of the Commonwealth Government and then representatives of each of the States. So it is a Federal body in that sense and therefore serves a different role. In the report of the Australian Institute of Criminology there is a useful paragraph which perhaps describes the way in which those organisations co-ordinate their two roles. Page 12 of the report states: 
The type of research undertaken within the Institute continues to complement research projects funded by the Criminology Research Council. Institute research is generally of a national and comparative nature, whereas that funded by the Criminology Research Council is more often of an intensive nature and localised in particular regions. This distinction is not rigid, however, and research staff have been increasingly used to advise and assist persons receiving grants from the Criminology Research Council. 
I emphasise that that Council is more concerned with the giving of grants and deciding who gets those grants. Those people then go away to do this intensive research. But the work of the two organisations is sensibly complementary. The matter which seems to me to be very serious is the constant situation of financial restrictions which appear through these reports. I shall refer to some parts of the reports to show what has had to be cut back and what cannot be done by reason of those cutbacks. The introduction to the report states: 
Consolidation rather than development has characterised the operations of the Institute for the year 1976-77. With its budget tightened still further and staff further reduced there has been no alternative course for the Institute to follow. These limitations compelled the Institute to cancel or postpone a number of nation-wide initiatives. 
I think that matter is serious and, as it was placed first in the report, we ought to emphasise it tonight. I do not really think that this cutback is wise. I suggest that we should look at the financial statement which appears in the report. I always hesitate to inflict myself on anyone as a guide when discussing financial statements because I regard myself as fundamentally unsound in the accountancy world. But as I read the statement of assets, in 1976 the Institute had assets of almost $88,000 whereas in 1977 that amount was reduced to almost $20,000. So what has happened in the reduction of work which has been forced upon the Institute is that it has also used nearly all its assets. Surely it must be clear that that situation cannot continue. There is not much further to go before the Institute is in the red as far as it assets are concerned. I do not know what the situation is today because of that. 

 Senator Button pointed out that the amount of Commonwealth grant has gone from $932,000 to $904,000. That means that the amount has been reduced not only in actual terms but also in real terms. No doubt costs have risen at least to the extent that the cost of living has risen throughout the country. So one has to face the fact that obviously the work cannot be performed to the degree which is satisfactory to those who are running the Institute. It means that people with experience and knowledge who are associated with these two bodies are obviously not being used to the fullest degree and in the most effective way if the Institute has to cut back in this way. This is seen in the report in a number of areas. For example, one sees this in relation to the training projects which are dealt with on page 17 of the report. We are told, as  Senator Tehan  has just mentioned, that it has been possible to conduct only 16 of the 28 training projects originally approved by the board of management for the 1976-77 financial year. That would appear to be very regrettable. 
One looks in the report to the number of very valuable areas in which various authorities have been brought together by the Institute. Lectures have been given and papers prepared. Those of us who have had the opportunity of dealing with the Criminal Investigation Bill that was mentioned know that valuable work was done. The work done by the seminar and the ideas expressed have been valuable to the Government and to members of the law and government committee of the Government parties. That is just one example. When one realises that the Institute has not been able to perform something like 12 other projects one has reason for regret. 
One more example of the difficulties experienced by the Institute is set out on page 27 of the report. The Institute stated: 
Because of lack of funds, the growth rate of the Library's collection decreased during the year. Increases in serial subscription charges forced the cancellation of 68 serial titles and prevented the subscription to new serials. Monograph purchase was also restricted, 275 being added to the collection, bringing its total to 3,639 volumes. 
One would think that in such organisations the needs for the J. V. Barry Memorial Library is paramount. Because of the need for the Library to keep up to date and to take more, not fewer, subscriptions to the documents which come from around the world the lack of funds has created a very alarming situation for the Institute. 
I believe that the consequence of the difficulties experienced by the Institute must be reflected in the amount of work that has been done. 1 take one example of this. The Institute's report lists the various objects of the Institute. One is to provide information to the Commonwealth and the States on a broader co-ordinated basis. Obviously that cannot be sufficiently done. Another is: to contribute to change and improvement in the police forces of States, especially in view of the recent new appointments of police commissioners and of officers to the top echelons of police forces; 
It seems to me, looking through the work that has been done, that there is perhaps a very considerable lack of development in what I might call 'hot potato' areas. The situation of police forces in Australia is to my mind a very worrying one. There are reports and inquiries, and some reports not even disclosed as yet, which indicate pretty alarming situations in which police forces do not get the recognition they should and very often do not attract the standard of persons that make it the type of force which is respected throughout the country. That has an effect, of course, on efficiency because if police forces attract, as I know they do in some areas, people who are very unsatisfactory, these people set a very poor example and therefore there is a lack of respect and a lack of effectiveness. I would have felt that the Institute, and probably the Criminology Research Council, ought to be doing much more work in dealing with very difficult and embarrassing areas that require investigation of the actual effectiveness and even the honesty, standards and so forth of the police forces around the country. 
It is no good saying: 'We in the Commonwealth do not have a very big police force; therefore we have to wait and see what the States do'. We know this often means that nothing is done; that things do not happen. The opportunity for the Australian Institute of Criminology to point out defects and put forward practical, constructive ideas is obviously not being fully exploited at present. I trust that I can put this down to a lack of finance as much as to any other reason. 
Does the honourable senator mean: Does it show the priorities of its objectives? 
No, the report does not do that in a real sense. The report divided the Institute 's work into various areas and tells what has been done in those areas. There is no statement as to whether it feels that it has succeeded in achieving particular objectives. 
-No, it does not. It describes the research that is being done and in some instances says very honestly that some of the results are inconclusive and further work needs to be done. It does not really go into great detail about the results of the research work. One can understand this. It would be a very lengthy report if it did. 
When one looks briefly through parts of the report one realises a number of things. Reference is made to the fact that in Sydney in 1980 Australia will be the host nation to the Sixth United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders. Obviously this will be a matter of great importance to this country and it is very important that the Institute and the Council should be acting most effectively because obviously they will play a very active role in the organisation and running of that conference. Also, they will need, as the report says, 'to prepare material to bring Australian programs and achievements in this field to the attention of Congress participants'. Obviously, there is a very urgent need for work to be done and for work to be speeded up before that conference takes place in Sydney. 
International relations are referred to. The Institute has a very active program of relations with other countries and persons and with visits here and elsewhere. This is not only a matter of expenditure. In its report the Institute points out: 
It is appropriate to invite attention to the economic aspects of these international contacts. The United Nations courses alone have channelled some $120,000 into Australia, not to mention the spending of participants while they were in the country. 
There is almost an economic gain which the work of the Institute brings to this country. So, I think the Government should look at the Institute's work in the light that it is not all a pay-out. It is not all a pay-out because what might be achieved in dealing with the massive problem of the crime rate and the work done in making more effective the criminal enforcement agents of this country have a very great economic bearing in the view of this Parliament and other parliaments. The work could save this country a lot of money and social crises which we have could be somewhat lessened. 
When one looks through the report one notices that the two organisations, but particularly the Council, have been doing work on drug issues. I know that  Senator Baume  is very concerned about the drug problem and will be particularly interested in the report of the Criminal Research Council.  Senator Baume  's committee, the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare, is inquiring into the evaluation of health and welfare services. In its report, the Council shows that last year it funded four evaluation projects in this general area. It also has some new projects. This area is of great importance and concern to this Parliament. 
The Criminology Research Council has suffered a reduction in the number of research projects it has funded. It also suffered a very alarming loss in the amount of money contributed to it by the Commonwealth and State governments in the last financial year. In its statement of receipts and expenditures, among the receipts are Commonwealth and State grants. In the previous financial year these grants totalled $135,000. In the year covered by the report, 1976-77, such grants amounted to only $25,000. This is an alarming drop. Grants from the Australian Government dropped from $62,500 to $10,000. The New South Wales 
Government, which had given $23,000, did not give any money in the year under review. I gather that the money from New South Wales was received too late, and even then it was only about $3,500. All States reduced very greatly their grants to the Council. The result, of course is seen in the report. The assets of the organisation dropped very severely and consequently it was not able to proceed with anything like the number of projects it wanted to undertake. 
The Council, in its report, gives a description of many of the specific projects which were being carried out. The work on them is very valuable. I am sure that it would be the Council's policy to greatly increase its work if it had the money. On page 1 5 of the report it makes this comment: 
The total cost of crime and criminal justice services in Australia was estimated to be at least $ 1,000m last year. It has been predicted that in the next 15 years the figure of SI, 000m could quadruple. In the view of the Council, an annual contribution of $20,000 which was the amount provided for the year 1976-77 - 
That is a grant- is inadequate to fund research to meet the challenge of the increasing cost of crime to the community. 
I think its prediction of the increased cost of crime is very moderate. These are people who one would surely think would have reasonsthey are not alarmists- for indicating that we are likely to suffer a very great increase, on the basis of the trends that already are apparent. Surely the Government cannot continue to contribute poorly to the research work and co-ordination in this field which are essential if we are to meet the problem and beat it. 
I welcome the report and welcome the opportunity to say something about it. I regret that I and many other members of the Senate have not taken sufficient interest in these organisations or the opportunity to go and see their work and to discuss these matters with the members of them. We need to recognise that these are two most valuable organisations and that we are not paying proper and due regard to their work. We created them some years ago. That was good; but we have now faltered in our funding of them. I hope that we will do better and I hope that these reports will lead to the realisation that this is an area that needs a very quick review. 
I address a question to the Minister for Administrative Services. I refer to the report of the Royal Commission into Human Relationships which was tabled recently in this Parliament. The Minister will be aware that the Commission was appointed following debate in the Parliament and that its report was the product of considerable representations from a wide cross-section of community opinion covering numerous issues of public importance. I ask: What action does the Government propose to ensure that there is a full and proper parliamentary debate on the detailed recommendations of this most significant report? Further, what consideration has the Government given to implementing some or all of the recommendations of the report? 
I shall say a few words in regard to this matter. As we realise, the statement which the  President  made to the chamber on the question of security in the Parliament building is an important matter. At the time the  President  made the statement it evoked some criticism and concern on the part of honourable senators, particularly Opposition senators. We were thinking of the incident at the 
Hilton Hotel which caused a great deal of concern in this country. It provoked a need to review again the question of security of the Parliament, among other institutions. 
I face this matter and the actions which are being put into effect with, at first glance, a feeling of some concern. One regrets very much that it should be necessary to take additional steps in adding security to the country as it may appear to put some sort of barrier between members of parliament and the public. It is very important that we ensure that these actions do not put any real barrier between them. I am sure that is the intention of the Opposition amendment and the amendment of the Government. I shall deal with those amendments first. 

 Senator Grimes said that he can see no difference between the amendment moved by  Senator Button  and that moved by the Government. It would be very nice if that were so but I think there is a difference. It arises in this way. Decisions about the control of Parliament House are within the power of the  President  and  Mr Speaker.  They are the officers elected by us for the purpose of ensuring proper control and management. The Parliament buildings should not be run by the Executive. They are run by the elected officers of the Parliament. It is important that we should not suggest in any motion we carry that we are derogating from that responsibility. It is their responsibility essentially. It is on that basis that the  President  made his statement, appointed an officer and carried into effect certain plans in regard to security. 
The amendment moved by the Opposition appears to take away that responsibility from the  President  and  Mr Speaker.  It said that the matter of security of the Parliament should be referred to the Privileges Committee. It suggests that the Privileges Committee is to have full responsibility ibr determining the control of security. Probably that is not the intention of the Opposition. Of course, it is not in any way the full role of the Privileges Committee. The amendment moved by  Senator Chaney  makes this clear. The proposal is that we take note of the statement the  President  made and the procedures will be implemented. The appropriate means of ensuring the security of Parliament should be referred to the Privileges Committee. In considering the appropriate means the Committee could look at the privilege aspects of this matter to see where the implementation of these procedures could impinge upon the proper rights of members of parliament, and, even more importantly, the proper rights of members of the public to have full access to their members. 
I think therefore that  Senator Chaney  's amendment is more appropiately worded. It will ensure that the Privileges Committee looks at that aspect of the problem, namely, the privileges aspect which is within its responsibility. It does not derogate in any way from the proper role of the  President  and  Mr Speaker.  Some criticisms have been made to me outside the Parliament. People fear that if we surround ourselves too much with an apparatus of control people who come into the Parliament will be inhibited. 
-I did not say they will be. I hope they will not be, but we must bear in mind that there may be some intimidation in people's minds. Perhaps this will be wrong but it may happen. People who come to see members of parliament may not want their names to be recorded. On some occasions illegal migrants may come to see a member of parliament. They come to see us on occasions in our offices in the States. They may come here for advice and consultation and to request action. Consequently, one could imagine that they would not want the records taken to fall into the hands of Executive Government. 
I do not believe that would be so but we need that assurance. The Privileges Committee can, I trust, give the assurance that there will not be any misuse of the records kept for the purposes of ensuring the security of people in this building and that they are not intended to be a form of excessive surveillance of members of the public. That is one criticism that I have heard. It is an aspect that the Privileges Committee should look into to make sure that there is no suggestion that and no way in which the recording of names and passes could be misused. Likewise, it is very important that there be parliamentary control and knowledge of the security system which is being brought into operation. From this point of view, as  Senator Chaney  pointed out, it is important that the senior members of the Privileges Committee should be aware of the system and be in a position to monitor from time to time the aspects of security which concern us. These problems will change from time to time and other problems may arise. Members of the Privileges Committee would be able to advise the  President  and  Mr Speaker  on situations that could create new problems. 
There are some problems in regard to the wearing of labels. I imagine that our wives who come here on social occasions will not find it delightful to come into the building wearing a placard which probably will not accord with the colour of their dresses. 
I am surprised to hear  Senator Walters  say: 'What is wrong with that?' A clash of colours would be an outrageous thing to expect a wife with any dress sense to put up with. That is a small matter. Perhaps the wearing of passes is not necessary. Members of Parliament are not expected to wear these placards. We are in a privileged position. Perhaps our wives are better known in many cases than members of the Senate themselves. 
-Senator Withers said that they are better looking. He was referring to my own wife and his wife. I agree entirely with that observation. But perhaps we can go too far in requiring the wearing of these badges. I agree that it is a very common practice for employees in all kinds of organisations to wear name tags. Each day that we travel to this place by air we see that the employees are labelled in this way. It may be that in those places where questions of security could arise critically, that practice has to be adopted to a very substantial degree. Once again, I think it is a matter involving the privileges of members of Parliament and others in this building which ought to be looked at carefully by the Privileges Committee. 
On all occasions there has surely to be a balance between security and the liberty of the subject. Where there is a conflict, certainly the weight should be for the liberty of the subject. In my opinion, that is of great importance but, likewise, security is of great concern, because within that freedom we are able to exercise our rights and perform our duties as members of parliament. 
I see a problem arising in respect to the mechanics involved in people coming into this building, meeting a senator and then going somewhere else. Already today I have seen that sort of situation arising and presenting something of a difficulty. Obviously a great deal of extra work is created for the attendants. If someone comes into the building and says that he wants to see  Senator A  and then wants to see someone else and so on, I am not at all sure what is the duty of the senator who first saw that person. Is it his job then to see that that person gets to the member or the Minister on the other side of Parliament House? It may be that the time of members of this Parliament will be greatly taken up if they have to take people backwards and forwards - 
They will become couriers, as the honourable senator says, taking people backwards and forwards. Alternatively, the members of the staff of this Parliament will be very busy if they have to pick up people and take them away. I do not know whether, once a person has seen the member of parliament he came to visit, he is then to be considered safe and therefore able to move freely. But if he is not considered to be safe, I see a problem arising in regard to the time of members of parliament, which is very limited and which is greatly taken up in attending to all kinds of activities, being further taken up with people who want to see more than one person. They come here with multiple purposes. Sometimes they want to make representation to a dozen members of the Parliament. It will create a problem if those members have some responsibility for the continuance of that person on his or her way. These, I believe, are problems which must be weighed and balanced. No doubt sensible proposals will be made. 
It is important, as the  President  said in his statement, that the pass system does not alter the existing freedom of movement, or the existing restrictions upon movement within the building, of persons permitted to enter the non-public areas. I think we have to bear in mind that this not an easy building in which to have a security system. When we have a new and permanent parliament house- I trust under your presidency,  Mr President,  that will be soon and that we will proceed with it- no doubt the arrangement could be made which would make it much easier to impose a sensible security system. The situation is more difficult in this rather old, rambling building, in which members and senators can well get lost and go to the wrong places if they are not careful, naturally makes it very difficult for members of the public. If they stray in the wrong direction they are pulled up and embarrassed. That is a situation which I think should be avoided as far as possible. That will require the attendants and those people who have some responsibility in regard to security being ultra careful about the degree of courtesy that they use when they deal with persons in the building and therefore ensuring that nothing is done to restrict the opportunity of the individual to come here and lay his complaints before members of parliament, to be heard and therefore to make a better use of the Parliament. 
There is in this country a great deal of disillusion about parliament. There is no doubt about that. That is only partly due to the way in which it is reported by the Press. Parliament is looked on as perhaps an aloof separated organisation in a very aloof separated city. I say that with all respect to  Senator Knight.  In the public's eye it is a rather aloof and distant place. I feel that if the parliament is to recover some of the respect and feeling of usefulness which the public very often does not consider it has, we have got to be careful when we make decisions in regard to the security of the Parliament that we do not prevent that. On the other hand, we have got to be positive. We have got to take some real steps to inform the public better about the Parliament, but that will be the subject of another debate at another time. All I say at this point about the security of the Parliament is that we should do nothing which may inhibit free contact between members of the public and members of the Parliament. 
On the occasion when this matter was previously being debated in the Senate, I felt, particularly from the remarks of Opposition senators, that there was perhaps a little in the nature of hysteria in regard to the proposals which were made. I heard one honourable senator make remarks about fire dangers and the danger of closed doors. I would not include that in my remarks about hysteria. About a year or two ago I discovered from my questioning of officers of the Parliament- I was particularly concerned then about the air conditioning system and the lack of activity in that regard- that great concern was expressed in correspondence from the unions about the fire dangers and the problems which people working in this building could well suffer. I think perhaps that is not a very great danger but it is a problem. Naturally, with the closing of doors in order to restrict entry and exit from this building, one has to be concerned that there are ample entrances and exits for people in the case of fire. However, that is probably not a great problem. Naturally, restricting the number of entrances to a building such as this is a matter which is in the public interest. The number of people who can be placed at the entrance doors is limited. The number of locations at which we can leave our message system instruments is limited. Therefore I think one has to weigh together the two aspects of the number of exits and entrances and also the fact that we could overstaff the Parliament if we are not careful by having people on duty all over the place. 
I believe that the statement which you made,  Mr President,  represents a fair and sensible attitude towards the matter of security. I think therefore it has the basic support of members of the Senate. I think a number of us have expressed reservations about the details, and we believe that it would be wise if security matters were looked at by the Privileges Committee also- the Committee which is responsible to the Parliament to ensure that the rights and privileges of its members and of the public are preserved. For that reason I support the amendment moved by  Senator Chaney  which I hope will be carried by this chamber. 
Sitting suspended  from 5.58  to  8  p.m. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 28 February: 
1 ) What progress has been made in securing the agreement of State Governments to transfer or refer power to the Commonwealth to enable the Family Courts to make necessary orders with respect to children who are not the legitimate children of a marriage. 
When will action be effected to ensure that all children can be treated with equal justice by the Courts and that other deficiencies arising in Family Law legislation through recent decisions of the High Court can be eliminated. 
Is the Minister representing the Prime Minister aware that on Tuesday, 4 April, I placed on notice 34 questions directed to the appropriate Ministers relating to the recent denial of public access by Ministers to a wide variety of reports, submissions and other documents which are of public interest and significance? Does the Minister agree that the continued practice of maintaining government secrecy is alarming? Is not such a practice inconsistent with the Government's declared policy on freedom of information and its intention to legislate effectively in this area? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and 
Resources. I refer to a report in the Melbourne  Sun  newspaper of 27 March which refers to the import ban placed by the United States on products made from kangaroo hides. I ask the Minister: Is it true, as alleged in the report, that the Australian Government has placed pressure on the United States to have the ban lifted? Has the Minister any information which contradicts the belief of the United States Fisheries and Wildlife Service that red, eastern grey and western grey kangaroos are threatened with extinction? Will the Minister assure the Senate that the Government will not support the lifting of the import ban until such time as it has scientific proof that these species are not endangered? 
I wish to speak only briefly on these amendments. I am sure that they are well intentioned amendments and I understand the purpose of the Opposition in moving them, namely, that if we fix a date and if reserves are of that size and nature at that date. they will continue to be recognised despite whatever the Queensland Premier manages to do. If the Premier is disposed to destroy the reserves, to make them cease to exist as reserves, to reduce them in size or to do anything of this nature, that is serious and drastic action which, I suppose, would have its own curious political consequences. But I am not sure that this legislation can provide entirely for whatever reaction the Premier might have. 
As far as I can see, when these amendments were moved in the House of Representatives they were not explained fully at all. The Minister,  Mr Viner,  in his reply, said on behalf of the Government: 
Like the honourable member for Dundas, I was surprised not to hear any arguments why the Government should accept the amendments proposed by the Opposition. There are serious legal defects in the argument which, if allowed to be carried, would throw into jeopardy the constitutional validity of this legislation. I am not going to tell Opposition members how to do their legal homework but I can assure them that if the Committee carried this amendment without passing other amendments, the Bill would fail. 
I should certainly like to hear whether there is anything the Minister for Social Security can add as to the way in which this failure would be caused. I can imagine some difficulty arising from the carriage of amendments in this form, namely, the attempt to specify that reserves shall be in existence at a certain date. It may well be that the reserves will vary in their size and nature. For example, under clause 15 of the Bill which we propose, there is a right for the Commonwealth, if it acquires land, to apply that land for the purpose of enabling the council to perform its functions. Presumably this would add land to the reserves so the reserves would not be the reserves as at 31 March. I am not sure whether that is the point the Minister had in mind or why he foresaw particular difficulties. 
I think it is very difficult to work on a basis that some drastic and extraordinary action will be taken by the Queensland Government which would destroy or remove the reserves. We would then be in a different ball game. We would have to consider some different situation altogether. This Parliament is capable of dealing with such a situation but I think it is very difficult to try to cover it in advance in the way in which the Opposition has proposed. It may be that this is the reason why the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs sees difficulties. I should certainly like to hear whether this is the case. I should think that in the investigation into this Bill, which we will subsequently carry out, these sorts of matters can be looked at in considerable detail, drawing on all the knowledge that the Minister's advisers have. 
It would be useful to know whether any further information can be advanced about this matter. 
-I should like to query this clause in one respect. I do not think that the amendment of the Opposition necessarily meets the problem. In my mind there is a little obscurity following on from clause 7 which we have dealt with. In it power is given to the councils to manage and control the affairs of the Aboriginal or Islander community. It is not absolutely certain as to where that begins and ends. The Opposition has said that it confines its arguement to services which might be provided by the State. I would imagine that services also could be provided by other organisationsvoluntary and charitable organisations and so forth- in the community. It seems to me that if the council is to control the community and manage its affairs, it perhaps should have some say in the provision of other services by organisationsnot just by the State but by other outside organisations. Of course in this regard the proposed amendment does not cover the situation and it gives power only to the Minister. It does not allow the community to make a determination about whether it wants a particular service- for example, if the service were provided under unreasonable terms or for some type of activity to which the council was strongly opposed. I am not sure that this situation is entirely satisfactorily covered. Maybe this is a matter we have to look at carefully in the future but I do not think the amendment moved by the Opposition covers the situation. 
I want to make a brief comment about this amendment. I agree it seems odd that a white man who goes on to a reserve administered by a council for which, of course, he does not vote may not be under the control of that council in terms of behaviour. No doubt he is under some control if he breaks existing criminal law. If a group of bikies were to ride onto a reserve and create perhaps an undesirable situation, it would be surprising if there was no control in such a case. 
I do not think that the objective of the Opposition is necessarily achieved by just deleting subclause (9). I think the Opposition is ignoring the fact that practically the whole of the clause, including sub-clause (9), is lifted almost entirely from the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill which this Parliament passed in 1976 but which has not yet been proclaimed. I do not recall that there was opposition to this proposal when that legislation was being considered. Clause 30 (9) of that legislation states: 
A by-law does not apply in relation to a person who is not  an Aboriginal 
If we accepted the amendment we would have a situation in which the law passed in 1976 would be inconsistent with the provisions of this legislation. A provision in legislation passed by this Parliament less than two years ago is contained in the legislation we are now considering. I agree that it is not altogether satisfactory just to say this provision does not apply. Perhaps more should be done to investigate this matter. I do not think the amendment seeking to omit the sub-clause will achieve its purpose. It will leave our statutory law in a most curious position. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. I refer to a report in the Melbourne  Sun  on 10 April of the weekend meeting between Commonwealth and State AttorneysGeneral and in particular to the statement that all State governments except those of Queensland and Western Australia are prepared to transfer family law powers to the Commonwealth to enable the same laws and facilities to apply to the custody and welfare of ex-nuptial children and to all matrimonial property in order to overcome the effects of High Court judgments in 1976 which limited the effectiveness of the Family Law Act. Is it correct, as was further reported, that the proposed transfers of power will not be enacted without the approval of all States? Does this mean that the proper interests of the overwhelming majority of Australian electors are to be vetoed by the irrational and selfish demands of the Queensland Government? Is there a constitutional or any other reason why the majority of States cannot transfer such powers despite the obstruction of the Queensland Government? Will the Commonwealth press for this transfer to take place? 
I should like to comment on proposed section 7 Q which is of some significance and which was suggested to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs by an adviser. At present the proposed section states: 
This Part does not affect the power of a court in a criminal proceeding to reject evidence which, if admitted, would operate unfairly against the defendant. 
The suggestion which was put to our Committee when it was dealing with another matter and which was drawn to the attention of the Senate was that this did not include the situation where evidence may be obtained illegally. It was suggested that it was not adequate to provide which, if admitted, would operate unfairly'. It should go further than 'operate unfairly'. If evidence is wrongly or illegally obtained then it should be possible for the court to reject it. The amendment has the effect of redescribing proposed section 7 Q in these terms: 
This Part does not affect the power of a court in a criminal proceeding to reject evidence which has been obtained illegally or would, if admitted, operate unfairly against the defendant. 
It is quite clear that that would be a ground on which the court could reject evidence- that is, evidence by way of a document if it had been in fact obtained illegally or if admitted would operate unfairly. This amendment makes it clear that the court may use either of those grounds to reject evidence. 
The whole Bill only relates to documents. This is the Bill which relates to the admissibility of business records in evidence in proceedings. The whole Bill deals with that. It makes it clear that particular ground for objection continues. I think it is a useful amendment, as is the other amendment. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
Will the Minister make available to the Parliament copies of reports on the re-refining of lubricating oil in Australia, which have been prepared by officers of his Department, and which have also been received from outside sources, within the last two years. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I refer to the increasing level of government and semi-government regulation which is being placed on Australian industry. Is the Minister aware of the address given by the  Chairman  of Petersville Australia Ltd at the company's last annual general meeting when he referred to the multiplicity of regulatory authorities often supervising a single factor of production, and to the never-ending stream of new regulations which, in many cases, contradict each other and have an effect quite different from that planned? Is the Minister concerned that there is a generally excessive level of government regulation placed on industry, much of which could be rationalised or modified? Does the Minister believe that, whilst a significant amount of legislation is necessary for the purposes of sound government, there is a need to ensure that regulations are kept to a minimum, that overlapping and regulatory authority is reduced and that uniformity of rules and laws is maintained? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education and refers to the report of the committee appointed to examine the desirability and feasibility of introducing a system of loans for Australian post-secondary students. The report was presented to the Minister in May 1977. Is it a fact that the committee recommended that a system of loans for needy students at the post-secondary level of education be established as a supplement to existing grants schemes? Is it also a fact that such tertiary loan schemes work with significant popularity and effect in Canada, the United States and Scandinavia? Has the Government considered establishing a loan scheme for Australia's tertiary students? Does it have any plans to do so in the near future? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) Does section 39a of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918 deprive the adult dependants of servicemen overseas of a vote in circumstances where they have ceased to live in the subdivision for which they were enrolled and to which they have no fixed intention of returning. 
Is the serviceman entitled to vote irrespective of his future intentions as to residence. 
Does the Minister realise that this is causing much distress for the individuals concerned, and amounts to complete disenfranchisement of servicemen 's dependants. 
Will the Minister ensure that this matter is rectified in the next review of electoral laws. 
When will such a review take place. 
-I present the second report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of the spate of similarly worded telegrams and messages being received by senators this week relating to the Government's recently announced tax reforms? For example, I produce this long and no doubt expensive telegram received by a number of senators. Even today anonymous publications giving various arguments have been received. Is the Treasurer at all surprised by this orchestrated campaign? Does the proposed legislation relating to the so-called Curran scheme come within the usual objections to retrospective legislation where taxpayers have arranged their family affairs and incurred substantial expenditure on the basis of long-standing laws and fully accepted tax principles? On the other hand, do these Curran schemes really represent a speculative ramp by some taxpayers to avoid paying normal tax on incomes which they will still continue to earn in any event? Is it a fact that under these schemes hundreds of millions of dollars of tax moneys have already been denied to the Commonwealth, thereby increasing the burden of tax on the normal, honest taxpayer? 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a statement relating to consideration by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs of the reference concerning the provisions of legislation empowering Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders to live on reserves in Queensland and to manage and control their own affairs. 
Leave granted. 

 -As Chairman of the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, I wish to acquaint the Senate and all interested parties with the course of action which the Committee proposes to take in relation to its newly acquired reference on the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders legislation. Honourable senators will recall the debate in this chamber on Tuesday of this week when this legislation was referred to this Committee following passage of the legislation by this chamber last Friday. Although the action of the Queensland Government in effectively abolishing the reserves at Aurukun and Mornington Island has had considerable impact on the effectiveness of the Commonwealth legislation, a number of cogent reasons were advanced for nevertheless referring it to the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee. 
Since that time there has been the announcement of the agreement between the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments which provides specifically for the control of Aurukun and Mornington Island. The Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee met yesterday to discuss its role in the light of these developments. On behalf of the Committee I then wrote to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner).  Having mentioned the reference of this matter to the Committee on 1 1 April 1978 and recited our terms of reference I wrote in the following terms: 
In the light of the Agreement of the same date entered into between the Commonwealth and the Queensland Governments, is it the intention of your Government to leave the legislation passed by both Houses of the Commonwealth Parliament on 5 and 7 April 1978 respectively in its present form or, alternatively, is it your Government's intention to regard the legislation as being of no further effect? 
By letter of 12 April, the Minister advised as follows: 
Thank you for your letter of 12 April. Yes, it is the intention of the Government to leave the self-management legislation for Aboriginals in its present form. 
Thus, any community may seek a declaration from me in order that the legislation shall apply to it. 
Accordingly, the Committee regards the reference as being of continuing relevance. The Committee will need to examine the effect of removing the area of immediate concern from the ambit of the Act. In dealing with this complex reference the Committee accepts that its primary concern is the constitutional and legal aspects of this matter rather than the difficult questions of social policy which arise in this area. The Committee proposes to advertise without delay and will directly draw the Committee's reference to the attention of Aboriginal organisations, Queensland and other State governments, the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, the Uniting Church and other concerned organisations. I propose to keep the Senate regularly informed of the Committee's activities on this reference. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs. I refer to a report in the Melbourne  Age  of 25 April which comments on the Minister's refusal to approve a film being produced by Film Australia. Is the report correct in stating that a grant for a film based on the novel  The Unknown Industrial Prisoner  has been vetoed by the Minister? Is it true that the Australian Film Commission and many distinguished members of the film industry believe that the film is commercially viable and worthy of production? If the film is not to receive a grant, will the Minister state for what specific reason the financial assistance has been refused? 
I present the following petition from 54 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That it is necessary for the Commonwealth Government to renew for a further term of at least 3 years the States Grants ( Dwellings for Pensioners) Act 1 974-77, renewed for one year expiring on 30 June 1978. 
The demand for dwellings has not slackened as the waiting list (all States) of 12,060 single and 4,120 couples as at 30 June 1 977, showeth. 
Your petitioners respectfully draw the attention of the Commonwealth Government to the Report of the Committee of Inquiry into Aged Persons' Housing 1975 under the Chairmanship of the Rev. K. Seaman (now Governor of South Australia) which recommended additional funds to State housing authorities to meet the demand for low-rental accommodation in the proportion of $4 to $ I with the proviso that the States do not reduce their existing expenditure and 
That the Act include married pensioners eligible for supplementary assistance and migrants as specified by the Seaman Report and that particular consideration be paid to the special needs and requirements of the prospective tenants in the location and design of such dwellings. 
Furthermore, your petitioners desire to draw the Government's attention to the hardship of many pensioner home owners caused by the high cost of maintenance. 
The Social Security Annual Report 1976-77 shows that 24.6 per cent, or 283,000 home owning pensioners, have a weekly income in excess of the pension of less than $6 per week. 
Your petitioners strongly urge the Commonwealth Government to establish a fund whereby loans can be made to means tested pensioners for the purpose of effecting necessary maintenance to their homes. Such a loan to be at minimal interest rates sufficient to cover administrative costs and to be repaid by the estate upon the death of a single pensioner before probate or upon the death of the surviving spouse in the case of married pensioners or where two pensioners jointly own the dwelling. Administration to be carried out by local government bodies. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Science or the Minister representing the Minister for Health. It relates to the use of the herbicides 2, 4-D and 2, 4, 5-T and their effect on the health of humans and animals that come into contact with them. Is the Minister aware that these herbicides are the most widely used in Australia, being employed in a number of agricultural pursuits, and that the heavy use of such herbicides in the Yarram region of Gippsland in Victoria has been claimed to be a reason for the abnormally high level of birth abnormalities and infant deaths in that area? Are these herbicides the same as the ones that were used by the American Army as defoliants during the Vietnam war and were they then alleged to have caused a number of serious illnesses to villagers coming into contact with them? What inquiries have been made by the Minister's Department, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation or the Commonwealth health authorities to ascertain, firstly, whether the herbicides are contaminated with the highly toxic chemical known as 'Dioxin' and what systematic checking is done to ensure that this contaminant is kept below dangerous levels; secondly, the extent of available overseas investigation and reports and in particular the evidence which caused United States District Judge Otto Skopil on 7 March 1977, to grant an injunction against the United States Forest Service restraining the use of phenoxy herbicides, including 2, 4, 5-T, in the Siuslaw National Forest and whether such ban of its use has since been extended to all 19 forests in the States of Oregon and Washington; and thirdly, whether the authorities are aware of the claims by Kevin Twigg a Kyabram dairy farmer, of illnesses suffered by him through the Victorian Lands Department's use of such herbicides on his property in Victoria in 1976? Does the Minister consider that, in the interests of public health and safety, he should now recommend the suspension of the use of such herbicides in Australia, at least until authoritative scientific studies have been completed? 
Is the Minister representing the Prime Minister aware of the existence in the United States of America of what is termed sunset' legislation which was first instituted in the State of Colorado in 1976 and which is now followed in 22 other States? Is he aware that under this legislation all government agencies are automatically disbanded or placed under review after a set period of years and that this has acted to rid the country of a number of redundant, outmoded or forgotten statutory bodies? In view of this development I ask: Firstly, does any public list exist in Australia which details the statutory boards, authorities, commissions, committees and advisory councils currently in operation? Secondly, in the interests of keeping a constant check on the relevance of these bodies, is the Government willing to consider the relevance and applicability of America's 'sunset' legislation to Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
How many interdepartmental committees are currently in operation. 
What subjects are being considered by each committee. 
What departments are involved in each committee. 
When is each committee expected to report its findings. 
When will the reports of the committees be disclosed to the public. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. I refer to the announcement made in the House of Representatives on 13 April 1978 by the Minister for Trade and Resources concerning the Government's new export development initiatives. Is the Minister aware that, whilst the new export incentives scheme has beem welcomed enthusiastically by the business community, there is some concern that payments under the scheme will not become available early in the new financial year, as intended, but instead only in 1979? Given that the Government has indicated that the new scheme will be applicable for the business year ending on 30 June 1 978, will the Minister provide an assurance that the legislation for the scheme will be presented to Parliament during the current session which ends on 2 June? Is the Minister willing, therefore, to reinforce the business community's belief that this popular initiative will be available for the 1977-78 financial year without undue delay? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the announcement by the  Chairman  of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights at its 34th session that measures have been taken, in confidential session, in respect of nine countries including Indonesia, what action did the Australian delegation undertake to ensure a full investigation of the human rights situation in Indonesia where tens of thousands of political detainees, mostly held without trial for up to 12 years, are still being held under conditions of extreme hardship? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport and relates to the movement of tourists and other travellers between Australia and South Africa. Is it true that in 1977 the Government rejected a request by Australia's national airline, Qantas, to introduce cheap fares to South Africa on the grounds that it did not want to encourage tourism to a country that openly practised apartheid? Is it also true that the Government has recently allowed South Africa's national airline, South African Airways, to introduce cut price air fares between Sydney and Johannesburg? What is the rationale for the apparent inconsistency of these two decisions? Is it the Government's intention to discourage tourism to South Africa as part of its public campaign against racial segregation and victimisation in that country? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Did the Prime Minister refuse, on 20 October 1 977, to make public his appeal or submission to the  President  of the United States regarding the desirability of Continental Airlines being permitted to fly to Australia: if so, why. 
2 ) Will the Prime Minister reconsider the decision. 
How does the Prime Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Did the Prime Minister refuse to make public the interdepartmental committee report presented to him on seas and submerged lands policy; if so, why. 
) Will the Prime Minister reconsider the decision. 
How does the Prime Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Did the Prime Minister refuse to make public the interdepartmental committee report presented to him on aspects of unemployment benefit payments; if so, why. 
) Will the Prime Minister reconsider the decision. 
How does the Prime Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Did the Minister refuse, on 6 September 1977 to make public a progress report prepared by the Public Service Board on the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration; if so, why. 
) Will the Minister reconsider the decision. 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government 's public commitment to freedom of information. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 5 April 1 978: 
1 ) Did the Minister refuse, on 3 1 August 1977, to make public a publication, prepared by the Office of the Commissioner for Community Relations, entitled the Handbook of Hate; if so, why. 
) Will the Minister re-consider the decision. 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. I refer to a report in the  National Times  of 24 April 1978 which describes a campaign by Canberra residents to prevent schools in the Australian Capital Territory from charging supplementary education fees. Is it true that education in government schools is supposed to be provided without cost and that no existing legislation authorises the collection of school fees? Is it also true that regardless of that, supplementary school fees are being levied on students and that conscientious objectors- parents and their children- are being made the subject of threats and persecution? Will the Minister inquire into this disturbing situation and take steps to ensure that fees are charged only if legislation exists authorising their collection? 
-In the very limited time that is allowed in this debate, I rise to speak on this subject. I believe that it is an important subject and I do not join with  Senator Collard  on my side who says that it is a waste of time. It is not a waste of time to discuss this issue this week in this Parliament. I cannot for one moment agree with the suggestion that he made that we cannot know what amendments will be made to the Queensland legislation until they are introduced. I think we have a right to know them and I am surprised we do not know them. I believe above all that those members of the Aurukun and Mornington Island communities who are here today and who are concerned have a right to know what amendments are proposed. 
Therefore, I think it is a matter of importance to the Parliament that we discuss this subject. At the same time, I think the phrasing of the matter of public importance is unfortunate when it alleges the failure of the Government to honour its expressed obligations to the people. During this debate this has not been shown to be true. I expect the Government to honour its obligations and, in fact, to ensure that, if any legislation from Queensland is to be accepted and effective, it should accord with agreements which have been made by the two Governments and which can be useful to the people of those two Aboriginal communities. 
I remind the Senate of what the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Viner,  said only a few weeks ago in relation to these matters. He stated:   . . the Government's decision was based on its commitment to the principle of Aboriginal self-management, their right to be as free as other Australians to make their own decisions and determine their own futures, and their right to be free of paternalistic management of their affairs by Government. 
He concluded his statement by saying: 
We believe they are ready for self-management, they believe it and they are going to get it. 
I, as a member of this chamber, will work to see that they get it. I expect the Government to do that. I expect it is doing just that in its present negotiations. The conclusion which the Opposition has drawn that the Government somehow will not manage to do this, or that it will accept unsatisfactory legislation which is anathema to the people of those communities is something which I certainly do not accept at this time. I see no evidence of that being so. 
We have obligations under the referendum proposal which was carried in 1967. I believe that it gave this Parliament a very substantial power. Speaking personally, I cannot think of anything short of acquisition which in the long run will be satisfactory. 1 find it very hard to believe that the proposed local government set up will be very satisfactory. It will be very difficult for the Aboriginal community to operate under the terms of local government legislation. Aurukun leaders have told my Committee- the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs- which is looking into the existing legislation, that this is something which worries them very considerably. 
Let us assume that something can be done and that some legislation can be agreed upon. The important point is that there must be effective self-management. That is what we are pledged to provide and that is what we must achieve. There must be consultation with the Aboriginal leaders to see that they are happy with the results of those negotiations. We have legislation which was passed through this Parliament and which is designed to assist the Aboriginal communities. I think we have to look at that legislation again. 
The Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs is pledged to do that. We are to ensure that if that legislation continues to operate as the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs wants it to operate- it will relate to all the other reserves- then it will be effective and useful. But it is my personal view that ultimately land rights will be needed. 
I think we ought to do as  Senator Bonner  has done, and look at the various aspects of the legislation which has been introduced in Queensland. Many people on this side of the chamber support  Senator Bonner  in what he is doing. He is not a lone voice in the Parliament on this issue. Many of us believe he is acting courageously, with the best of intentions and motives. We back him in what he is doing. We believe that he has the interests of the people of those communities at heart. 
If we look at the legislation which has been introduced into the Queensland Parliament one of the conclusions we can arrive at straight away is that it in no way represents the carrying out of the agreement which was made between the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Queensland Premier on 1 1 April. The legislation is supposed to recognise our mutual obligations with regard to the wishes and welfare of the people. Therefore, the wishes of the people should have been considered first and foremost. We know that the Queensland Government brought some people to Brisbane and put them on television. But these people did not include authorised representatives of the community. This action was taken in an endeavour to confuse in the public mind the wishes of the community. 
It was expressed that the aim of the agreement was to achieve self-management. That was the commitment of the Queensland Premier and of our Prime Minister, who, as I realise from a number of conversations with him on the subject, sincerely supports those propositions. But the agreement was that a local government authority should be created on the boundaries of the existing reserves. The legislation now before the Queensland Parliament does not give that guarantee.  Senator Bonner  made it clear in his speech that that legislation leaves it open to the Queensland Parliament to give a lease for all or for some part of a reserve 'as it thinks fit'. The legislation does not commit the Queensland Government in any way to give to the Aboriginal communities, lands which were in those existing reserves. 
The agreement went on to provide that the local government councils, which were to be set up, were to be the 'managing authority'. Anybody who reads the Queensland legislation as it now stands will realise that this requirement does not give the council that 'managing authority'. The Queensland legislation makes the councils very much subject to other authority. It enables the Queensland Government to dismiss the councils if it sees fit. One could imagine that those councils could run foul of the complications of local government administration and it could be very easy to dismiss them if it suited the purpose of the Government. 
The agreement also provides for each council to be subject to a co-ordinating and advisory committee. According to the agreement between the two leaders the committee was to consist of representatives of 'authorities delivering services', including one representative of the Commonwealth Department of Aboriginal Affairs. But what do we find in the legislation which has come forward? It provides for the committee to consist of three people- two State Ministers and one Federal Minister. It is quite clear where the majority lies. The legislation does not provide for the inclusion of other organisations which have contributed to the welfare of the people and which the community might want to assist them. 
Under the agreement the Queensland Government was to consult with the Commonwealth on the terms of its legislation. There might have been some consultation, but I very much doubt whether the final legislation bears any great resemblance to whatever might have been agreed at those consultations. The legislation contains a lot of other aspects which I think were not the subject of consultation between the two governments. I challenge the Queensland Government to show how it has complied in any way with the terms of that agreement. Of course, mutual agreement between the two Ministers was not achieved under the methods of preparing this legislation. Therefore I say that the major aspect of this matter is that the legislation before the Queensland Parliament is not what the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island want and it does not come anywhere near the agreement reached between the governments. 
In a few moments left let me mention various aspects of the Queensland legislation which were not mentioned by  Senator Bonner.  I believe that this legislation will have to be amended substantially and drastically if it is to accord with the principle of self-management. The lease needs to provide that there will be an entitlement for control over the improvements on the land and not just control of the land itself; it needs to provide that the councils of the communities will have the right to sublet and to collect rent; and it needs to provide that the power to dissolve the council, which is left in the hands of the Queensland Minister for Local Government and Main Roads, will be taken away. The legislation provides that he must consult the Federal Minister. What does that mean? It means nothing whatsoever. He could consult over the telephone and then go and dismiss the council. That clause provides no protection whatsoever. 
The agreement provided that each local government council should have a co-ordinating and advisory committee in order to support the communities. Instead, the legislation provides that those committees are to assist the Government in the 'control and management' of the communities. That is the very antithesis of selfmanagement; therefore, that provision surely must go. In addition to that and many other matters, the legislation confers powers upon the Queensland Government to remove the shire clerk. It confers powers upon the Queensland Minister to decide who shall have the right of entry or exclusion. The Minister can overrule decisions by the councils. In all these and many other ways the present Queensland legislation is a falsity so far as the agreement between the two governments is concerned. 
I believe that our Government will not prove recreant. I believe that it will prove strong in this issue. I trust that it will be strong in its negotiations. We should negotiate while there is any possibility of reaching agreement. Nonetheless, I believe that we have to seek very drastic alterations to the legislation. It is therefore desirable that this Parliament should express itself loud and clear in support of the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island and ensure them selfgovernment, which they richly deserve. 
-I desire to join in this tribute to  Sir Robert  Menzies, not to canvass the areas which have been so fully mentioned in the Senate today by those who had experience of his great capacity and great character in various fields. I speak as a Victorian Liberal senator, as one representing the Liberal Party from the State of Victoria, from which State  Sir Robert  came and which he represented for so many years in the House of Representatives. 
It may be said that Victoria is the heartland of liberalism. We sometimes say it. However we may not, I think, claim that it has anything to do with the nature of ordinary liberals in Victoria as opposed to those in other States. Perhaps it has something to do with the leaders who have, by chance or for some other reason, come from that State this century. We had Alfred Deakin, who, in the early part of the century, gave a new direction to liberalism in Australia and who was one of our great national leaders. Then, when affairs were in a very poor state, we had  Sir Robert  Menzies, a leader in Victoria who formed the Liberal Party in Victoria, restated its philosophies and principles and then, of course, led it to great political success in this country. 
I knew  Sir Robert  Menzies for some 35 years although not nearly as well as I would have liked to have known him. I did not, of course, have any association at all with him in the Parliament. I saw his activities from a different direction, namely, as one who lived in his electorate, who worked as an officer in his branches in election campaigns, along with a lot of other people, and who saw the way in which he campaigned. I saw the ability he had to inspire people to work for him unsparingly because they believed that he had the real abilities and great integrity which make for an Australian leader of significance. 
My first experience of meeting him goes back to the period when he was, I suppose, at the depths of his career, when he was no longer leader. At that time he was supported by an organisation which I joined called the Kooyong Citizens Association and which fought for him in his electorate in 1 943 when he retained his seat. It was after that, of course, that he made the quick journey back and reformed into one Liberal Party the parties that had fragmented and in 1944-45 created the Liberal Party of which  Senator Wright  has spoken so well. 
From those days until the time when he ceased to be a member of parliament I well recollect the way in which Liberal Party members in Victoria supported him strongly and to what degree they admired and appreciated his election campaign speeches and the way in which he fought out election campaigns. With that they had the experience of Dame Pattie Menzies who very often was the real ally and representative of  Sir Robert  in the electorate when he had to be elsewhere in the national interest. She, of course, is greatly loved and admired not only by the Liberals in Victoria but also by all the people of Victoria. They regard her as a gracious and kind lady who could always have a kind word in discussions with any individual. For her, for  Sir Robert's  son, daughter, brothers and other members of his family, there is a great respect in Victoria. 
In the speeches today reference has been made to  Sir Robert  as a great statesman, national leader and Prime Minister. I do not need to repeat the remarks that have been made in that area. But there is one other area which has not been sufficiently mentioned; that is his great skill and ability as a politician. 'Politician' is a word which so often in this country becomes a word of condemnation. I think that the work which  Sir Robert  Menzies did, the skills which he displayed, his absolute support for the Westminster system of government and the way in which he admired and recognised the importance of Parliament have brought a permanent value to the institution through his own life and effort. 
During his period of Prime Ministership the great statements that needed to be made were made in the Parliament. There was parliamentary debate on them. He was meticulous in his consideration of the Bills which came within his jurisdiction. In other words, he was never a man aloof from Parliament. He was always enmeshed in the parliamentary system. Nor did he ignore the part of the parliamentary system that required work in the electorate and actions and speeches which took him round the country so many times stirring up the community to the points of view he felt needed to be raised. 
The period when  Sir Robert  was a figure in politics was a period when people came to election meetings. People would interject. They could be heard, unlike today when I fear that at political meetings it is so often a matter of trying to shout down the  speaker  or his opponents. In those days  Sir Robert  was ever ready to answer an interjection. So many times at meetings I have seen him answer an interjection often abruptly and perhaps sharply. But I have seen on the face of the interjector a great deal of pleasure at the skill with which he had been answered. Even though his answers may have been a little offensive they brought pleasure to people who said that he was a political leader who did not feel that he was above and beyond the ordinary citizen. He felt that somebody who made a remark was worthy of a reply and that he ought to give to that reply all the skill he could. In that way he demonstrated that he had respect for the ordinary Australian citizen and that he was prepared to bandy words and speak to him during an election campaign. I fear that to some extent we are losing this today. 
In his respect for Parliament and the political process  Sir Robert  Menzies did a great deal that will be of permanent value to this country. I hope that it will not be forgotten. On behalf of the people in Liberal politics in Victoria I wish for his widow and family happiness in their lives ahead. I am sure they will have the feeling that although they have lost a great family man and a fine friend, they have given to the nation someone who was worthy.  Sir Robert  Menzies made very large footsteps in the political life of this country. They are footsteps which will probably never be filled again. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to the recent parody of a trial finalised in Moscow on 19 May 1978, when the famous Soviet nuclear physicist and human rights defender, Yuri Orlov, was sentenced to seven years in a labour camp and live years of internal exile on trumped up charges of anti-Soviet agitation and slander. Is the Minister aware that Yuri Orlov has been a leader of the Helsinki monitoring group, active in exposing the failure of the Soviet Union to comply with its human rights commitments under the Helsinki Pact? Is the Commonwealth Government prepared to give urgent consideration to the proposals now made by British and American human rights groups for the boycotting of the 1980 Olympic Games in Moscow? Will the Government consider a proposal that Australia boycott those Games in view of these savage new attacks by the Soviet Union on free speech in that country. Failing that, is the Government prepared to express its abhorrence of this denial of human rights to an eminent Soviet citizen and to take positive actions on it as a member of the Human Rights Commission of the United Nations? 
I must say that as I listened to  Senator Button  I could not help remembering another classical quotation, but unfortunately I do not remember who said it, namely, 'The lady doth protest too much, methinks'.  Senator Button  certainly did protest too much tonight. I think that anyone listening to the debate in this chamber or elsewhere tonight would not have been aware that he was talking about the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill and the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill, which are two important subjects to Australia that do not figure in his dissertation at all. We all enjoyed and appreciated the fact that he moved through with such loving care the statements of Ministers and of members of this chamber who now sit on the Government benches, lt was very desirable that he should remind us of what we said, those wise words, in 1974 and 1975. It is interesting to know that he appreciates and takes such care of what we then said. At the same time, because I do not want it to be thought that it is sour grapes on my part, I remind listeners that in the early part of his speech, which started a week ago,  Senator Button  referred with loving care to a statement I had made on the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill in 1 975 when I warned about the effect of regulations, the dangers of regulations and how difficult it is to pick up regulations and perhaps deal with them rather than with substantive legislation. Remarks which I shall make later in this speech will indicate that I am quite consistent now with what I said then. I thank the honourable senator for reminding me of my words in 1975. 
Here we are considering two Bills of importancetwo Bills about which I have some concern and some criticism which I intend to express tonight. However, it is not the sort of criticism which would lead me to vote against these Bills which are part of a whole package of legislationthe 'nuclear package' as it has been called. The legislation requires very careful consideration. Indeed there are some aspects of it that I find I cannot really support. I hope that they will be the subject of amendment and reconsideration after this event. 

 Senator Wright's speech on this legislation last week, which should be read by everybody, brought to my attention much of the concern he has for aspects of these Bills, particularly the first Bill that I mentioned. I wish to refer to what  Senator Wright  said in that speech. Indeed, the fact is that I do not regard myself as in any way an expert or well versed in the substance of the nuclear legislation or the industry in itself. However, with the package of legislation that has been coming through this Parliament, it has been impossible for back benchers of this Parliament to investigate the legislation thoroughly and to attend meetings. I had to give away this package of legislation to consider the Aboriginal legislation because meetings on both matters clashed. Nonetheless I find it necessary to take an interest in these matters which are of concern. Therefore in a state of not complete knowledge of the situation, I make these comments about the Bills. 
Let me refer first to the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill which is an unusual piece of legislation. Its object is worth recording: 
The object of this Act is to make provision, within the limits of the powers of the Parliament, for protecting the health and safety of the people of Australia, and the environment, from possible harmful effects associated with nuclear activities in Australia, and this Act and the regulations shall be construed and administered accordingly. 
This environmental part of the nuclear legislation is important. It provides, as I say, a somewhat curious method of developing the legislation because it proposes that codes of practice shall be adopted by the Governor-General in Council, which is, of course, by the Executive Government. The Executive Government will draft codes of practice in regard to the way in which there will be protection against nuclear activity. These codes will be sent to the States and the States will be asked and able to comment on them. There are, I am afraid, some curiosities about this, which, as I said,  Senator Wright  mentioned in his speech. 
Before dealing with the criticisms of it, with regard to the general legislation, I must say that I am not persuaded that there is danger in the adoption of a nuclear industry in Australia. I am not satisfied, on the amount of evidence that I have been able to accumulate, that the dangers that are referred to are anything other than an exaggeration by people in this country. I rely very much on the remarks during the debate by  Senator Harold  Young of South Australia who has taken a great deal of interest in this subject. In his speech he indicated the great need for nuclear energy by other countries who have a more pressing need for it than Australia. He pointed out that in fact it does not behove this country to stand apart, to leave the uranium in the ground and not to exercise an influence on the protection and handling of nuclear energy and nuclear fuel throughout the world. I think we have to be involved. I am not satisfied in general terms with the criticisms that are made of our involvement in this activity. Of course the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry basically justifies our going ahead with nuclear endeavours. But so far as this Bill is concerned, as I say, there are some aspects which I think ought to be the subject of some concern to us legislators in this Parliament. I say that in respect of the matters mentioned by  Senator Wright  when he spoke last week. He drew attention then to the curious way in which this legislation is phrased. We can appreciate that the Parliament is not in a position to lay down detailed codes, detailed material whereby it can be determined from point to point how nuclear activity should be controlled. In fact what the legislation represents is an eggshell- to use  Senator Wright's  own words- whereby codes can be developed. They are then sent to the States and, if the States do not agree and do not pass legislation accordingly, of course these codes can be brought into effect by regulations that are brought down by our Government. Under this Bill, those regulations are capable of being disallowed by either of the Houses of this Parliament. 
However, there are curiosities about this element to which  Senator Wright  referred in his speech. We have two steps here. We have codes which can be created, which come into effect, which are signed by the Governor-General, which will lay on the table of this Parliament and which are subject to disallowance in whole or in part. Then, if they are to come into operative effect, there must be a regulation providing for this to happen. With regard to the codes and the parts of the codes, that power of disallowance is written into this Bill. It is written into this Bill because the normal position is that we in this place may deal with regulations and ordinances and may disallow them. The normal situation is that where there are regulations and ordinances, they come before the Committee of this Parliament known as the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, of which  Senator Wright, Senator Wood  and I are members, as are members on both sides of the chamber. It is worth recalling the powers that this Committee has and which I believe, as does  Senator Wright,  are not included in the disallowance of these codes. Those powers which the Committee has are set out in  Mr Odgers'  Australian Senate Practice,  Fifth Edition, in this way: 
It - 
That is, the Regulations and Ordinances Committee-  would be required to scrutinise regulations to ascertain: 
1 ) that they are in accord with the Statute: 
that they do not trespass unduly on personal rights and liberties; 
that they do not unduly make the rights and liberties of citizens dependent upon administrative and not upon judicial decisions; 
that they are concerned with administrative detail and do not amount to substantive legislation which should be a matter Tor parliamentary enactment. 
It may be that the drafters of this Bill would consider that the regulations that brought these codes into effect, and in fact the codes themselves, were not merely matters of administrative detail- of course they are substantive- and would never meet the fourth criterion required by the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. The situation, therefore, is curious in that the codes will come onto the floor of this chamber and unless we in this chamber are vigilant and unless we can somehow use the facilities of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee and its Counsel and in other ways investigate properly those codes, it is difficult to see how they will be scrutinised properly by the chamber as a whole. As regards the regulations that carry the codes into effect, they will of course be subject to the possibility of disallowance in the normal way. But I think it is a matter of some concern that such a substantial amount of the legislation is left to be filled in later by the Executive Government and does not, to any great degree, come within this legislation we are now passing. As  -Senator Wright  has pointed out, there are two objections there. One is that this legislation is eggshell legislation which does not have any substance to it and we are passing that power to the Executive Government. The other is that we appear to be cutting out proper scrutiny of the codes which is part of the province which this particular House of Parliament- the Senate- has. The House of Representatives does not have a committee such as the Senate Regulations and Ordinances Committee which we have. Though it perhaps is not deliberately by-passed certainly in effect it is bypassed by this form of legislation. 
There was another matter, which  Senator Wright  raised, to which I wish to draw attention. He referred to his doubt as to the constitutional power on which the whole of this legislation is based and said that there had been failure to obtain by agreement with the States a very firm constitutional basis for it.  Senator Wright  pointed out the results of the Joint Committee on Constitution Review, which reported in 1959. One of the important recommendations of that Committee was that the Commonwealth Parliament should be empowered by constitutional amendment to make laws with respect, firstly, to the manufacture of nuclear fuels and the generation and use of nuclear energy and, secondly, to ionising radiation. It was considered by that Committee that the power was not adequate. Yet here today, we work upon the basis that the power is adequate and we are proceeding to build an industry on that basis. 
Therefore, I think that constitutional power is linked very much to the attitude of the States. If some of the States object- they have indicated objection to this legislation- then I think there is some concern as to whether its validity will hold up under any test. In regard to the attitude of the States, I want to refer to some statements which were made by  Mr Hamer,  the Premier of Victoria, in a letter to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Amongst other things, he said: 
I believe that the Bill itself is deficient in failing to provide a machinery for full consultation with the States in formulating proper controls of nuclear activities. 
He referred to the consultation which was to be had with State Ministers and formed the opinion that this was tokenism, that there was no real possibility for that State to have any control of that input. He went on to say: 
This provision cannot be said to provide any more than token consultation with, and input by the States. 
He expressed his doubts about the constitutional basis of the legislation. I note that in the House of Representatives the Bill was amended so that in fact it will not operate in respect of the States until a date fixed by proclamation. That amendment is now inserted in the Bill. Nonetheless, we are in a somewhat unsatisfactory situation where we have this opinion of the States and the very doubtful constitutional power upon which the legislation is based. 
I think there are other aspects of this Bill that are the cause of some concern. Clause 1 3 of the Bill gives powers to the Governor-General to deal with special situations if he is satisfied that the health or safety of persons, or the environment, are likely to be harmed by a situation resulting from a nuclear activity that exists in a State or Territory. That is very widely expressed. If the laws of the State do not make proper provision for it, then the Governor-General may give directions and take such action as he considers necessary to control and eliminate hazards associated with that situation. It is expressed in very vague language. It is true that it is confined only to three months with some power to extend it and that such orders are subject to disallowance in either House of the Parliament. Nonetheless, I express some concern at the width of the power that is given and at what may be encompassed in it. 
In respect to this Bill, there is power to make a regulation to ensure the confidentiality of information obtained in or in connection with the carrying out of, giving effect to or securing the observance of a code or practice. This Parliament not yet having before it a freedom of information Bill and, clearly, being in the process of considering a change in the area of confidentiality of government documents, I hope that we will soon find ourselves with legislation which is effective in regard to restricting the amount of confidentiality. How far that power under this clause may go is very vague and we are empowering confidentiality without, I think, very much restriction. I believe, of course, that a number of problems that I have mentioned may well be overcome if this Paliament keeps them under careful scrutiny. No amount of scrutiny will have any effect on the other matters I have mentioned, such as the doubts in regard to constitutionality. Therefore, I have some concern about the results and the effectiveness of this particular Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill. 
I turn now to the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill which is being dealt with in this debate jointly with the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill. It has been interesting to find out what is the justification for using the Atomic Energy Act 1953- an Act largely of a defence nature- which set up the Atomic Energy Commission and which places very great power in the hands of the executive Government. This is being used now for what is something of a commercial operation- the mining and the dealing with nuclear energy. One has some difficulty understanding why this has been done. I have heard it argued that the Australian Labor Party, when it made arrangements about the Ranger field and entered into engagements, had in mind using the Atomic Energy Act. I do not find that argument very convincing. I do not think it is necessarily desirable to do it because the Labor Party had this in mind a couple of years ago. I hoped that in the House of Representatives debate on this matter I would have been able to read some sensible explanation of why the Act was being used. But unfortunately, as so often is the case, both sides of the House went into a tantrum when they came to debate this aspect of the Bill. I was none the wiser. 
I think there is some real concern as to the use of the Atomic Energy Act. This arises because, whilst most of this legislation follows fairly religiously the Ranger Inquiry report, I am afraid it does not do so in regard to this particular aspect. In the second report of the Ranger Inquiry, at page 248,  Mr Justice  Fox had this to say: 
An alternative for Ranger left open by the Land Rights Act is an authority to mine under the Atomic Energy Act 1953. We strongly recommend against the use of that Act for the grant of an authority to Ranger to mine uranium. There arc a number of different reasons for our recommendation. 
After pointing out that section 41 of that original 1 953 Act gave very great power to the Government and after expressing some doubts as to whether it did- nonetheless it could be said that the Ranger activities were done and carried out on behalf of the Commonwealth and I should mention here that one of the amendments to the Bill covers that particular point- he went on to say: 
Although the Commonwealth is a participant, the project is to be, as we understand, an ordinary commercial one. 
He went on further to say: 
In any event, the section is inappropriate for a venture such as is planned, and which has to be subject to strong environmental controls, determined upon and maintained independently of the co- venturers. 
The Commonwealth is one of the co-venturers with private companies in the use and mining of uranium. He proceeded further to say: 
A strong body of evidence demonstrates a widespread lack of confidence in the Atomic Energy Commission as the final arbiter of standards for the proposed mining operations, and as a monitor of them. This is in part because it is proposed that the Commission be actively engaged as entrepreneur, and in part because one of its ordinary roles is the promotion of uranium mining and nuclear development generally. 
He also felt it inevitable that the Minister's use of section 41 will attract doubt and suspicion, simply because he is the Minister reponsible for the Commission and he would normally be expected to turn to it for advice in relation to the operation of this section. Finally he drew attention to the security provisions of Part IV of the Atomic Energy Act, some of which seem extreme in the current context but which were doubtless enacted with defence considerations in mind. While they remain, public access to information is seriously curtailed. 
In regard to this Act, once again I turn to what I think are the rather serious implications of the application of the original, even amended, Atomic Energy Act. The offences that are prescribed under that Act carry heavy penalties. The security section, Part IV, very greatly impinges upon the normal civil liberties of Australians. Whilst that may be very essential in the case of a specific defence or security purpose, it is hard to see how it is applicable and suitable in the case of a normal commercial venture. It provides for people to be kept off premises. It will no doubt be suggested that it would restrict the right of lawful protest, which operates in this community, of many people who sincerely have a strong objection to nuclear operations. Furthermore, the Atomic Energy Act itself imports in its terms the Approved Defence Projects Protection Act of 1947. Section 60 applies to and is in relation to all works carried out by or on behalf of the Commission as if those works were approved defence projects within the meaning of that Act. 
I will not go in detail into the other provisions of the Act which reverse the onus of proof in some respects and which, in section 48, are very restrictive of the disclosure of information. This relates to the point I made earlier in regard to freedom of information and the proper disclosure of commercial documents and information which ought, surely, to be within the public scrutiny. That information may well be restricted under this Bill. I am concerned therefore and I am not alone in this concern. I noticed an article this morning in the Melbourne  Age  by  Mr Tony  Walker, the Canberra correspondent, headed Uranium Law Threatens Civil Rights' in which he made many points in respect of this matter. He took the view that I have taken in respect of the Approved Defence Projects Protection Act and its implications in regard to commercial activities. He said: 
And the question remains: why did the Government reject the Fox recommendation and use an Act which may have been appropriate to guard defence secrets at Woomera but which is much less pertinent to commercial development? 
When one looks at the various parts of this Act, one sees that there are some very real concerns about the use of the Atomic Energy Act. Therefore I am concerned that this Bill is a case of setting a sledgehammer to operate in what could be a rather dangerous area. I trust that in the operation of this Act the Government will be very careful and very cautious. I trust that we in this Parliament will be extremely careful that the operation of the Act does not result in any undue interference with civil liberties. 
We have before us an amendment to the Bill. One would never have guessed until the last few words of  Senator Button's  speech that he had made his second speech based on an amendment which suggests that there should be a delay in this legislation to enable consultation with the States. He was not concerned with the other aspects with which I have dealt. He was concerned only with consultation with the States. I trust that there will be consultation and I believe that this Government will have very real consultation with the States. I think it is probably very important from the point of view of the constitutionality of this Bill that the Government should reach sensible arrangements with the States. I do not think that the States will be terribly impressed by the fact that at this stage  Senator Button  and his colleagues suddenly have experienced what I would call a death bed repentance about the States. They have suddenly discovered the States as a reason to delay this Bill and I do not think the States will depend upon that. 
It is clear that the Government is long since committed to a course that will require the use and development of nuclear energy and I would not be a party to avoiding the strategy which the Government has adopted. Whilst I reject the amendment moved by the Opposition, at the same time I urge the Government to take note of the criticisms which have been made of these two Bills. I know that there are amendments to be considered to some of the Bills still to go through. I hope the Government will consider whether there are still desirable amendments that might overcome the objections that have been made by me, by  Senator Wright  and by other persons. I therefore face these two Bills of the package with some trepidation and some concern, determined that if they are passed, we in this Parliament must be extra vigilant as to how the powers are used and how the Senate, in particular, stands up to the obligations which it has to review and consider regulations and other responsibilities of the Government. Nonetheless, I support the general decision of the Government in respect of nuclear energy and consequently support the package of Bills. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) Has the interim report of the Board of Inquiry into Public Electricity Supply, Northern Territory, referred to in House of Representatives  Hansard,  26 May 1977, page 20 1 9, been withheld from the public; if so, why. 
Will the Minister reconsider the decision. 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's commitment to freedom of information. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs whether he is aware of the relative unavailability in Australia of energy saving diesel powered motor vehicles? Does the Minister realise also that there is a twofold problem in that there are no locally produced diesel powered cars, but strict import quotas on the diesel Volkswagen, Peugeot and Mercedes Benz cars? Is the Minister willing to consider relaxing the import restrictions placed on vehicles with diesel engines, at least until local producers can begin production of these fuel efficient cars? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister and refers to the whaling inquiry currently being held by  Sir Sidney  Frost. I refer also to the following statement which was reported in the Melbourne  Age  of 20 May 1978 to have been made by  Mr Brian  Appleford, spokesman for the Friends of the Earth:   the Department of Primary Industry had insisted that the anti-whaling Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development be denied the right to make a separate submission to the inquiry. 
I ask: Firstly, is it a fact that the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development is registered as or was announced to the International Whaling Commission as being one of the principal parties to the inquiry? Secondly, is it a fact that that Department is at present being denied the right to present a separate submission or separate evidence to the inquiry? If so, will the Prime Minister ensure that the Department will be freed of such restrictions and will be permitted to place all useful material, including surveys undertaken within its sphere of responsibility, before the inquiry in order to ensure that the Commission is fully informed? 
I wish to take further the comments which the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has made. I suggest that what I have to say is relevant to clause 2, which deals with the coming into operation of the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill, and to the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition as well as the Government's proposed amendment. I am rather surprised that the Opposition's amendment is in the terms it is. If this amendment were accepted it would inhibit in the way the Minister has said the operation and development of an agreement. It would also mean that the agreement would not operate in any way at all not only until there has been further consultation but also until agreement has been reached on a uniform code. In other words, if one State chose to be very difficult, not to agree to anything, to be obstructionistI leave it to the imagination of honourable senators as to which State that might beunder the Opposition's amendment there would be no code. 
The Government has presented this legislation and I have expressed some criticism of it and indicated that I demur to some parts of it. But, having presented this legislation, surely the Government does not want to find itself inhibited entirely because one State chooses not to reach agreement and therefore an agreement cannot be reached. I know that the Government has not yet moved its amendment but, with respect,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  I believe it is important to know what it says. It seeks to leave it to each State to request that there shall be regulations affecting that State. That is a different proposition altogether from that embraced in the Opposition's amendment. Surely Opposition senators are not saying that nothing should be done in the development of this code unless we can obtain 100 per cent agreement from every State. 
Of course it is possible to have a code without 100 per cent agreement. 
-Under this Bill the Government will be given power to do that, to bring it in by regulation. The Government is endeavouring to obtain uniform agreement, but honourable senators opposite seek to make the introduction and establishment of the code dependent upon absolute agreement. The Opposition's amendment appears to me to be a foolish amendment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 2 March 1978: 
Will the Minister make available to the Parliament copies of reports on the re-refining of lubricating oil in Australia, which have been prepared by officers of his Department, and also which have been received from outside sources, within the last two years. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the serious allegations made by members of the aviation industry, including the Australian Federation of Air Pilots, that Australia's traditionally high standards of air safety are being eroded because of reductions in Federal aviation spending. I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that the Department of Transport has altered its previous policy of preventative maintenance for air navigation and safety aids to one of repairing those aids once they have become inoperative? Is it also a fact that, as a direct result of the lack of preventative maintenance, a significant number of important aids have broken down? Can the Minister say how many navigation and safety aids were not operative on the main Melbourne-Sydney-Brisbane jet route this morning? Were 19 such aids not operative on that route on Monday, 10 April 1978? Has the instrument landing system at Canberra Airport, where senators have all landed in the last 24 hours, been defective for the last six months? Is the Minister concerned about this situation? Does he believe that the Government's reduction in capital and current expenditure on aviation facilities has led to a dangerous erosion in air safety standards? 
-In the second reading debate I likewise expressed concern about the dubious constitutional power and the fact that that matter had not been resolved. I do not go as far as  Senator Wright  in this, but it seems that we have moved from a situation in which we were going to repose certain powers into a situation, following objections by the States- I think many of their objections were sound- in which the States now have a veto. 
There will be no regulations applying to a State unless the State government agrees. I wonder why the Government is not making some effort to reach agreement with the State with regard to the power so that there might be agreed power and the Commonwealth and the State can work these aspects out together rather than the present situation where the matter is being left to complete veto by the State, in which case there will be no power, no restriction and no codes at all unless the State agrees. I am concerned about this provision too, although I shall not vote against the amendment. I expect some explanation why the Government has moved from one situation to another and how it finds this an adequate way of providing suitable codes. 
I think that  Senator Mulvihill  has sunk  Senator McLaren  without a trace. He made it quite clear that States will have differences in regard to codes.  Senator Carrick  has already responded on this matter. I have my fears about this clause. I made it quite clear that it may be found that in one State no agreement can be reached. That would be most unfortunate. Therefore, some other powers obviously would have to be used, as the Minister has said. The Opposition suggests that we should wait for a uniform code and not just for consultation on a uniform code. What about the whole history of the Commonwealth when it has been waiting for uniform codes in this and that area? Often the codes do not come to fruition because one State will hold out. It is wrong, at the time that we are passing a whole lot of Bills which relate to the commencement of the uranium industry in this country, for the Opposition to hold up the legislation unless a uniform code is reached by all States on environmental protection. 
It will take only one State to veto the whole business. This industry would then have to proceed without a uniform code. That would be entirely irresponsible. Of course we have defeated the proposition put forward by the Opposition. The Opposition is suggesting that one State be allowed to veto the whole operation. Surely the Opposition with all the memories in the world, knows that such a course is fatal. 
I notice that in the amendment moved by  Senator Button  provision is made for a person who suffers loss to make a claim. Is the advice of the Minister for Educaton  (Senator Carrick)  such that the regulation power is sufficient to make any regulations providing not only for a penalty but also for any right of action? As I read the power set out in clause 14,I see it as covering that situation. Perhaps something could be said about that. 
I take advantage of this opportunity to ask the Minister what consideration has been given to a matter I raised briefly in the second reading debate. I refer to the general width of the expressions in the clause, which I think are dangerously wide and may be protected only by the powers of the Parliament to disallow regulations. I am even dubious as to the extent to which the Parliament would be able to do that. Clause 13(1) states: 
Where the Governor-General is satisfied that- 
) the health or safety of persons, or the environment, is likely to be harmed . . . resulting from a nuclear activity. . . 
Nuclear activity is very broadly defined. If he is satisfied of that and the laws do not cover it he may, by order, authorise a Minister to give such directions and take such action as, subject to subclause (2), the Minister considers necessary to control and eliminate hazards associated with the situation. If regulations are brought in under that extraordinarily general clause, I am not sure whether we will be able to deal with them. If the Minister has considered it necessary, I cannot see how the Parliament will be able to determine what facts he has taken into consideration. The Parliament may have the power to disallow regulations but under what conditions. For example, under what conditions would the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, which operates under certain specified grounds for recommending disallowance, be able to do so? Clause 13 (1) (b) states that the 
Minister may take action if he considers it necessary. That seems to be the end of it. There is no appeal against that to any other body. I suppose that the only ultimate form of appeal is disallowance by this Parliament. If the GovernorGeneral considers it necessary he may authorise a Minister to make regulations and give directions, but there is no specification as to the directions the Minister may consider necessary. The clause states merely that he may give such directions as he considers necessary to control and eliminate the hazards associated with the situation. That is extremely wide language to use in a regulation-making power, 
Considering the fourth ground under which the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances sometimes recommends disallowance, it is hard to see whether a regulation goes further than it should and whether it deals with matters of substance instead of the carrying out of the law. I am not quoting exactly the words of the standard set. The fact is that there is no way in which one can determine the standards under which the Minister should operate and make determinations. I repeat the concern I expressed on the second reading debate in relation to the width of these powers and whether further consideration could be given to tidying up this clause and limiting the extent to which the Minister may make regulations. 
-I am not sure whether I understood  Senator Wriedt  's point. It may have been different from the point I am making; it may have been the same. As I read the clause, it states that the Governor-General may make an order authorising the Minister to do certain things- I take it that X is the order that is made- and then the Minister takes action or gives directions. To take an example where there are those two separate things, the GovernorGeneral may authorise a Minister to impose penalties as he thinks fit on people who dig in certain places or do certain things. The Minister then would issue some sort of document- a direction or order- which specifies the penalties and sets out that anyone who disobeys will be fined $ 1,000 or perhaps gaoled. 
As I read sub-clause (6), which brings in the Acts Interpretation Act and permits the disallowance by this Parliament of these orders as though they were regulations, that would not mean that as a Parliament we could disallow any of the directions of the Minister or any action of the Minister. That is not within our compass, as I see it. It is only the orders that are made empowering the Minister to do certain things that are subject to disallowance. I would like to know whether that is the interpretation that the Minister's advisers put on this matter. If that is the case, I think it is somewhat dangerous, and I wish the reference to orders' in sub-clause (6) could be altered to include a reference to 'orders or directions', so that the directions could also be subject to disallowance by this Parliament. 
-On behalf of  Senator 
Martin  I present the following petition from 7 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. A petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That withdrawal of government benefits under schedule 6469 Tor first trimester abortion would discriminate against and disadvantage the least privileged in our society. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Under no circumstances withdraw government benefit under schedule 6469 for first trimester abortion. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health refers to the provision and use of rubella vaccine by health authorities in Australia. Given that rubella accounts for 90 per cent of deaf-blind children and 35 per cent of congenitally deaf children, does the Minister believe that the existing voluntary scheme of rubella vaccination is a satisfactory one, or is she of the opinion that an insufficient number of people offer themselves for immunisation? Does the Minister agree that the only way fully to avoid the disturbing consequences of rubella is by implementing a compulsory program of rubella vaccination for relevant sections of the community? Is the Minister willing to recommend the adoption of such a program for girls approaching child-bearing age? Will the Minister for Health have the Department of Health consider the feasibility of the proposal? 
-I enter into this debate quite amazed at what we have heard today. I am not at all amazed that the Opposition has no confidence in the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  because, of course, the Opposition would not have any confidence in our Government or in any Minister of it. So there is nothing surprising about that. But I am amazed at the temerity of the allegations that were made today. Also I am greatly impressed, as usual, with the frankness of the Minister for Administrative Services in the remarks that he has made to this chamber. We have come to expect and know that the last thing he wants to do is to hide behind any technicalities in regard to procedures in this chamber. 
Earlier today it was said by  Senator Button  that someone had put words into my mouth so that I would take a point of order in respect of matters raised here today. I would have thought that honourable senators would have known from my record in this Parliament that nobody would put words into my mouth. I see Ministers smiling. I would have thought that the questions 1 asked indicated that that was not my procedure in the Parliament. I have the greatest pleasure in supporting the Minister today in regard to this motion of no confidence because I believe he deserves our confidence, and he will get it. 
Let me turn to what is perhaps one of the most extraordinary things that has happened in this debate before I turn to the conglomeration of nonsense which  Senator Button  put before us. I refer particularly to the speech made by  Senator Wriedt,  the Leader of the Opposition, which contained much irrelevant nonsense. He talked about someone's hatred for the National Country Party of Australia and of people being under a cloud, none of which really impressed Government members. But the important thing was the deliberate allegation made against the Minister for Administrative Services, that he wrote to the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  as he did, on 2 1 April and that he said he knew why the decision to change the name had been made. I propose to read the letter- it is not a secret document- which  Senator Withers  wrote to the Attorney-General on 21 April. So that there will be no doubt about this, later I shall seek leave to have this letter incorporated in  Hansard.  In the letter  Senator Withers  stated: 
My Dear Attorney-General, 
I first became aware of the proposals of the Distribution Commissioners for Queensland on or about 10 August 1977, when the maps were published. I also became aware, on or about 12 August 1977, that in South Australia the Commissioners in that State had deleted the name Angas and retained the name of Wakefield. This was in accordance with the 1969 recommendation of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Naming of Electoral Divisions. 
Being aware of this report, and the change of name in Queensland, I raised with the Chief Australian Electoral Officer that the naming of the Gold Coast Division in Queensland was contrary to the recommendation of this Committee. 
I pointed out that in South Australia the Commissioners had acted on the basis of the 1 969 report. I advised him that it was likely the Parliament would insist that the recommendations of the 1969 report be adhered to. I asked him did he think it would be proper for him to draw the report of the House of Representatives Committee to the attention of the Commissioners. I also suggested that if the Commissioners were looking for a new name for any Division in Queensland Fadden would, in my view, be appropriate. 
He said he could see no obstacle to drawing the Commissioners' attention to the 1969 report as it was not a matter that related to the boundaries nor a matter which impinged upon the Commissioners' statutory responsibilities. 
I did not at any time discuss the naming of any Division with any of the Queensland Distribution Commissioners. 
I table a copy of that letter. As I read it, probably there is no need for me to incorporate it in  Hansard.  I am amazed today during a debate in which it is alleged that the Minister for Administrative Services has misled this chamber that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  could so mislead the chamber as to allege that the Minister concerned wrote to the AttorneyGeneral saying that he knew why the name had been changed.  Senator Wright  took a point of order against that - 
I certainly shall do so. I seek leave to have the letter incorporated in  Hansard,  Mr President. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 21 April 1978 
My dear Attorney-General, 
I first became aware of the proposals of the Distribution Commissioners for Queensland on or about 10 August 1977, when the maps were published. I also became aware, on or about 12 August 1977, that in South Australia the Commissioners in that State had deleted the name Angas and retained the name of Wakefield. This was in accordance with the 1 969 recommendation of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Naming of Electoral Divisions. 
Being aware of this report, and the change of name in Queensland, I raised with the Chief Australian Electoral Officer that the naming of the Gold Coast Division in Queensland was contrary to the recommendation of this Committee. 
I pointed out that in South Australia the Commissioners had acted on the basis of the 1969 report. I advised him that it was likely the Parliament would insist that the recommendations of the 1969 report be adhered to. I asked him did he think it would be proper for him to draw the report of the House of Representatives Committee to the attention of the Commissioners. 1 also suggested that if the Commissioners were looking for a new name for any Division in Queensland Fadden would, in my view, be appropriate. 
He said he could see no obstacle to drawing the Commissioners' attention to the 1969 report as it was not a matter that related to the boundaries nor a matter which impinged upon the Commissioners' statutory responsibilities. 
I did not at any time discuss the naming of any Division with any of the Queensland Distribution Commissioners. 
Yours sincerely, R. G. WITHERS 

 Senator the Hon. P. D. Durack, AttorneyGeneral, Parliament House, Canberra, A.C.T. 2600. 
-The fact that this letter will appear twice in  Hansard  is even better because it will indicate the depths to which the Leader of the Opposition will go in his attempt to smear the Minister for Administrative Services. Speaking to a motion of no confidence is no time to outrageously mislead the Parliament, as the Leader of the Opposition has done today. 
In that context, I turn to today's mover of the motion of no confidence,  Senator Button,  who was obviously determined to misuse the rules of this chamber because what he wanted to do was to do his own analysis on his own basis of evidence which has been given before a judicial inquiry which is now sitting and to make some comparisons. When he quite properly was not permitted by you,  Mr President,  to do that, he fell into some state of disrepair and made his rather lame and halting speech. Nonetheless, in the course of that speech he did make some speculations and allegations and even claimed that  Senator Withers  might have made some misleading or difficult statements, even when he was burning leaves during the weekend. I do not think we are very interested in what people do of a weekend, whether they burn leaves- I do not know whether they were leaves of  Hansard  containing speeches by  Senator Button  or ordinary leaves- or whatever else. As has been said, we in this Parliament are concerned with truth. But surely we are not concerned to sit in this house of the Parliament in some sort of mock trial of issues which are being properly determined by a proper court. 

 Opposition senators interjecting- 

-I am afraid that the further I look across this chamber the more it looks like a mock trial. I can see a few mock turtles also. 
Yes,  Mr President.  I just want to remind honourable senators opposite - 
Let us not talk about past Labor Ministers. 
Opposition senators-  Oh, no! 
-Oh, no! Let us not talk about those Ministers who fell like the leaves which fell on  Senator Withers'  lawn. They were so ready to go. Honourable senators opposite had so much experience of no confidence in Ministers in their day that  I  bow to them as experts. They know what no confidence means because they had so much experience of no confidence in various Ministers during their administration. Remember the Cs. 
-Yes, they had C-sickness. The names of all the Ministers concerned started with C. That may have been the only basis upon which they were removed. Nonetheless, honourable senators opposite did it. 
It is proper to raise what is within the Standing Orders. It is proper to have debates upon questions of confidence. If honourable senators opposite had some little tittle of an allegation against the Minister for Administrative Services which was relevant we would have been only too glad to hear it. Let us say that honourable senators opposite do not like the fact that the Minister does not read as many newspapers as some other members of the Parliament might read. I have heard honourable senators opposite complain about that- that he does not read the  West Australian Border Watch  perhaps. If they had a relevant allegation against the Minister we might even have considered voting with them, but we will not do so on the basis of anything they have produced in this chamber. Honourable senators must remember that a Royal Commission has been set up and is sitting. It is to consider certain matters of impropriety which are in question- anything which might have been said or any action which might have been taken by or on behalf of one of the Ministers. 
Of course it is important that  Senator Withers  should give evidence before an inquiry which has such wide compass in its terms of reference. Of course it is important that the commissioner of that inquiry, quite uninfluenced by any spurious allegations which might be made in this chamber, may hear evidence, carry out an examination and make decisions. It would have been quite wrong for  Senator Withers  to try to embellish the evidence which he has given in another place and had tried to give an explanation to other allegations which have been made. I and every honourable senator on this side of the chamber realise that what has been done is unfair to  Senator Withers  because he cannot answer questions and expand upon a great number of issues which have been raised today. He is restricted- not just  Senator Button-  in what he can say in this chamber-- 
More so than  Senator Button  because his honour is impuned by the allegations which have been made by  Senator Button.  We realise that even by taking points of order we appeared to restrict the Minister in the manner in which he was able to make full and frank statements on the whole gamut of allegations. The Minister has given evidence under oath elsewhere and is prepared to go back and give further evidence elsewhere if it is required. This chamber will stand in judgment of him if in fact subsequently it is found that he has misled the chamber. If there is to be any lack of confidence it needs to be shown that the Minister deliberately misled the Parliament. This has not been shown in the slightest in anything which has been said today. I think it is worth pointing out that, when the statement which is the subject of this allegation was made on 4 November elsewhere, it was not made in answer to a question raised in the Parliament. 
-It was not. If the honourable senator will look again at the record he will see that what  Senator Withers  was doing on 4 November was making a speech in regard to electoral legislation which was then before the chamber. 
-On 4 November? 
Today, remarks made by the Minister on 4 November have been referred to. For example, remarks such as: 
I have never telephoned  Mr Coleman  about the naming of electorates. I have been asked why the names were changed. I do not know. 
Those statements are recorded on page 2127 of  Hansard of  4 November 1977.  Senator Withers  was speaking in reply during the debate on the electoral legislation. The honourable senator will find, therefore, that the statements do not relate to a question but that they were made at the end of a long debate when all kinds of allegations had been thrown around the chamber. I find that speech of  Senator Withers  admirable. It is a very good speech because, among other things, he referred to that useful report of the House of Representatives in 1 969 which would repay study by all honourable senators in this chamber. He made those statements during a speech and not in answer to a question. My, if it were the matter of answers to questions that was the basis of a complaint, I think one could really make a good speech in this chamber about the subject of questions. lt could be about the total futility and uselessness of the types of questions asked in this chamber during the last tedious year by the Leaders of the Opposition and members of the Opposition. Honourable senators on this side of the chamber could teach them a great deal about asking questions in the Senate. The questions they have asked have been so futile. 
I can at least claim without any fear of deliberately misleading the Senate in any way that I have never asked a Dorothy Dix question in this chamber. No Minister in this place will ever be able to give honourable senators any indication that I have. I would not ask such questions. I know that that was the method used by Opposition senators to keep their Government in business for years. Of course, we do not do that. I think that honourable senators opposite may do better if they were to ask some Dorothy Dixers. I might write a few for honourable senators opposite and suggest a few lines of inquiry that they can follow. The futility of the Opposition is displayed in the poor questions asked in this chamber by honourable senators opposite and in the attempt to discredit the Leader of the Government in the Senate by moving a motion of want of confidence in him. I thought that in the debate on this motion today we would hear something about the way in which  Senator Withers  conducts the business in the Senate. I thought that we would hear about the frank way in which he deals with questions and about the attempts which I know and which honourable senators opposite know he makes to obtain answers to questions in a very satisfactory way. There are only five Ministers in this chamber. They have to answer all the questions asked of the Government. 
The matter we are debating today is a want of confidence motion concerning the Minister for Administrative Services. I am expressing reasons why we have great confidence in the Minister. The subject is not one to be debated purely on the lines adopted by the Opposition. I have answered the charges made in my own way. I have challenged the integrity of the Leader of the Opposition in respect of the allegations he has made in the Senate. I will not rely upon the allegations made by Opposition senators today, but I will rely upon the fact that honourable senators opposite have shown themselves to be incompetent and have shown themselves as desiring to move beyond the fields which are proper for debate in this chamber at this time. Honourable senators opposite have endeavoured and are endeavouring to flout the rulings of the  President.  They would endeavour to raise other matters which, of course, are of no consequence to this circumstance at this time. I believe that one should not say anything further about this sad motion. One should realise that  Senator Button  and  Senator Wriedt  have shown the futility and the emptiness of the position of the Opposition in the chamber. I congratulate  Senator Withers  for the way in which he has stood up to the pressures and the stupidities that have come forward in this debate and during the last few weeks. I support him strongly and, of course, I urge honourable senators to vote for the defeat of this motion. 
Is the Attorney-General aware that the Commonwealth Ombudsman has received 2,500 written complaints and another 2,500 complaints made in person or by telephone since he commenced operation on 1 July 1977 and that at any one time there is a backlog of 1,000 complaints? Has the Ombudsman sought a substantial increase in staff to meet these unexpected needs? Does the AttorneyGeneral agree that it is essential that complaints by citizens against administrative mistakes and injustices require urgent attention by the Ombudsman and his staff? Is the Minister prepared to recommend a substantial increase in the Ombudsman 's staff? 
-I have listened with great interest to what  Senator Rae  has said tonight. Although there are some aspects of what he said with which I am afraid I cannot agree, I find a great deal of support for him in a number of propositions which he has made concerning the Constitutional Convention and our representation at it. I support the motion but, like  Senator Rae,  I strongly advocate that we should be leading on to a popular convention, one elected by the people. Perhaps in a moment I shall illustrate this with an example that he gave in regard to the matters decided at the referendum last year on which he and I took determined stands on different sides of the questions. I think one could use those matters now to come to some agreement on certain matters which  Senator Rae  has suggested. I shall not go into the question on which he finalised his case, that is, what might be described as the possible disappearance of Tasmania from the Federation. 
Oh yes. We must give them some consideration. I agree. 
I should be happy to argue that point at another time perhaps, but not on this motion. I think it might be said that we pay a lot of tax to the other States too. 
I am not going to buy into this argument. I might even say: Look at the record on constitutional change. Tasmania, I think, has voted for only seven out of 5 1 propositions in the history of the Commonwealth. I feel that that is not a wonderful record in regard to constitutional change. My State has a much more positive record on this matter. I hope that in the future we will see a lot more support for constitutional change. I agree with  Senator Rae  that last year three out of four of the referendum proposals were reasonably understood by the people and were voted upon, carried and became part of our Constitution. This gives good hope for the future. But I could not be taken as agreeing with some of the things  Senator Rae  said tonight in regard to the fourth question. I do not believe for one moment that there was a danger in that proposal but unquestionably there was thought to be a danger by many people in the Commonwealth. Of course 62 per cent thought otherwise. But one must surely acknowledge that there was clearly a lack of understanding of the proposals- right or wrong. In this case a great deal of emotion was displayed and on the surface a great deal was said in the course of the campaign by people interested in the subject. 
I am really agreeing with you,  Senator. 
No, I am not saying that,  Senator. You  are seeking to find disagreement. I am not saying that Big Brother knows best whether he comes from Victoria, Tasmania or anywhere else. I am saying - I am agreeing strongly with  Senator Rae-  that a popularly elected convention would bring a great deal more knowledge of and concern for constitutional change to the people of Australia. Surely that does not involve the concept of Big Brother for one moment. I understood  Senator Rae's  argument. The argument I am supporting here tonight is that unfortunately the form of selection of delegates at the Convention means that they come from the parliaments ofthe States and that that is far too limited. 

 - Senator Jessop points out that the delegates are appointed from the executives of the parliament. By and large the delegates tend to be Ministers or shadow ministers and leaders of oppositions and therefore tend not to represent a cross-section of the whole of the parliaments. What I am saying is that if we moved now to an elected convention where people had to choose delegates and had to think whether those people would be the most suitable persons to be delegates at a convention for the purpose of looking at a constitutional change, I believe we would have a better understanding of the proposals that are put forward. Probably there would be much more interest taken by the public, Press and others in the workings of the Constitutional Convention than is taken at the moment. I trust that I have convinced  Senator Rae  that the last thing in the world I am interested in is Big Brother or just giving leadership. 
I think the ideas of change and the important changes to the Constitution that ought to be looked at are matters that have to appeal not just to our side or to the Australian Labor Party but must have a fairly broad acceptance across the chasm of politics if they are actually to have a chance of acceptance by the people. That was so with three of the proposals last year. Although in three of the States there was massive support for the fourth one there was not that support across the chasm of different State interests for it. Therefore, it was not carried.  Senator Rae  included the problem of the Senate not being adequately represented in the delegation to the Convention as it is formulated. The Senate has not a wide enough representation on it. This leads to the result that Sub-committee D of the Convention which was sitting between conventions to consider the question of Supply- the problem which is one of the major issues in Australiadid not have a senator on that body. It is most unfortunate that that body can come to a decision without having one senator on it. 
No, I shall not use a word like 'reprehensible'. That has too much of a constitutional flavour. But, on the other hand, I will say that it was unfortunate, to use my moderate expression, that this should be so. I hope that while appointing delegates to this Convention and of course taking an active part in it as senators and members we will not overlook the fact that there is a need for a much deeper public interest and appreciation of this matter. We have a lot of things to do in relation to the Constitution. It is clear from reading the papers of the current Convention that it has not found yet a solution to the major or most serious problems that have divided the Australian people on the Constitution. Clearly if such solutions are to be found, as I have said, they have to appeal to a broad-based group of Australians and to be seen to be reasonable and not serving the interest of one political party or another. 
While supporting this motion, nonetheless we ought to recognise the thin nature of the popular support for constitutional change at present. There is a need for us in a period of relative calm in this country to face up to the problems of our Constitution- the outdated nature of some of its terms; the fact that there are unresolved issues that have caused a great deal of crisis in Australia in recent years- and regard those matters as urgent matters that should be calling on people of goodwill to find solutions. I support this motion. Despite the slight difference of views between  Senator Rae  and me I think we are basically in agreement about the problems in question tonight. 
We deceived  Senator Georges.  I suppose that is an achievement for the day. Nonetheless, we are in agreement upon the essential importance of the Senate of constitutional change and on the need for greater knowledge and deep understanding of it, and on the need for a democratically elected convention. On that point, before  Senator Georges  ruins this happy note of harmony, I conclude my speech. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
Has the Department of Foreign Affairs refused to make public a major survey which the Government commissioned on the effectiveness of the Australian information program in Japan; if so, why. 
Will the Minister reconsider the decision. 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
I present the report and evidence from the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on the priority of Crown debts. 
Ordered that the report be printed.  Senator MISSEN-  by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report 
The Committee has completed an examination of the priority which is given to the Crown over other creditors when it is owed debts by a bankrupt or a company in liquidation. Extensive evidence has been given to the Committee by a variety of witnesses, professional bodies, individuals with extensive experience in bankruptcies and liquidations and the relevant Government departments. The overwhelming weight of evidence is against the maintenance of laws which give the Crown a great advantage over ordinary creditors. The Committee has carefully considered that evidence including the arguments raised in defence of the traditional privilege afforded the Crown. It has concluded that there should be change. Stated broadly, the justification for Crown priority is that it represents an attempted balance between the interests of the community as a whole, as represented by governments, and the interests of particular creditors. 
The Committee has not challenged the traditional concept of some creditors being accorded preferential treatment by having debts owed to them repaid in preference to debts owed to other creditors. The Committee has, however, been firmly convinced that the justification of the Crown's priority in terms of the protection of a debt due to the community does not provide sufficient support for the Crown priority. In fact, in the report the Committee indicates that it seriously doubts whether the community as a whole would support the retention of this priority in its name at the expense of creditors who suffer the consequences of a bankruptcy or winding-up much more directly. Not only did it appear to the Committee that there was no general basis on which the concept of Crown priority could be justified, the evidence revealed a host of reasons why the priority should no longer exist. Not the least of these was the hardship experienced by creditors who had not been repaid debts owing to them because the remaining assets were used to pay debts owing to the Crown. I refer honourable senators to pages 27 to 29 of the report where the Committee comments on this evidence. A number of instances were recounted to the Committee of employees of insolvent businesses being deprived of their long-service leave entitlements which spanned periods of up to 30 years, because the assets were used to pay debts owing to governments. 
Another source of concern to the Committee, mentioned on pages 33 to 35 of the report, was the delay experienced by creditors in receiving any distribution of assets of an insolvent company because of the time taken to establish whether or not debts were owing to governments as to which Crown priority could be claimed. Delay and needless expense have also resulted from the need to resolve complex legal problems created by the existence of Crown priority. The complexity of the existing provisions and uncertainty on the part of liquidators and receivers of companies as to their duties under conflicting laws have led to considerable expense in obtaining directions from the courts as to the manner in which they should exercise their responsibilities. The complex problems which receivers and liquidators need to resolve in order to properly exercise their responsibilities include: The competing claims of the Commonwealth and State governments; the lack of any single Act at either State or Federal level which determines the order in which assets should be distributed; and the need to determine whether particular government instrumentalities are, or are not, to be regarded as part of the Crown. 
The Committee also discusses in its report the problems which have resulted from the practice of the Commissioner of Taxation in allowing employers who have not promptly met their taxation liablilities a period of grace in which to overcome their temporary financial difficulties before recovery action is taken. Whilst the forbearance of the Taxation administration would undoubtedly enable some employers to overcome their temporary difficulties, the Committee indicated its belief that this practice would, on balance, be productive of more harm than benefit to all creditors other than the Crown. Given the secrecy requirements imposed on the Taxation administration, other creditors would not be in a position to know whether or not a large tax indebtedness was accumulating as a result of the special treatment being accorded to the company. In this vacuum of knowledge, other creditors would be more likely to extend credit to a company whose liquidity had been made to appear better than it really was by the forbearance of the Taxation administration. The major application of Crown priority and the area of most significance to the Commonwealth revenue is in relation to the taxation instalments which an employer is required to deduct from the wages or salary of employees and remit to the Commissioner of Taxation. The Committee devoted a separate chapter, Chapter V, to the confusion, criticism, expense and hardship which have arisen from the priority which has been accorded to these taxation instalment deductions. The Committee concluded that there were no valid reasons for regarding taxation instalment deductions which an employer had failed to remit as being any different from any other debt for which Crown priority could be claimed. 
It became apparent to the Committee that one of the most unsatisfactory features of the existing law was the number of anomalous differences which exist between the position of the Crown in bankruptcies and its position in company liquidations. Many of these differences continue to exist even though a decision was originally taken as long ago as 1937 to partially remedy this situation. In 1969 the Commonwealth and the States agreed to waive some of their existing priorities. The States have honoured their undertakings; successive Commonwealth governments have failed to do so. At the end of its investigation the Committee concluded that there was but one solution which would effectively solve the problems which the Committee outlined and which have been allowed to exist for far too long. The Committee recommended that the Crown should no longer be accorded priority in respect of the payment of any debts due to it in the administration of insolvent estates. The cost to the Commonwealth of abolition of its priority would not be substantial. For estimates of the revenue involved I refer honourable senators to pages 44 to 45 and appendices 3 and 4 of the report. However, the benefit of abolition to employees and ordinary creditors would be significant and just. The Committee commends the report to the Senate and to the Government. It notes that under the guidelines recently announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  the Government has accepted an obligation to respond to the Committee 's suggestions within 6 months. It welcomes this development and awaits the response of the Government. 
I support the amendment. Members of the Committee will realise that in the second reading speech there is this statement about this area of change: 
Existing senators and members will also be able to qualify for a retiring allowance on completion of 12 years service or service in four Parliaments should they voluntarily retire from the Parliament. 
Actually, I think that the expression 'four Parliaments' is not inaccurate so far as the terms of the amendment are concerned because, as we know, Parliaments are described as Parliaments in the terms of House of Representatives period- the twenty-ninth Parliament, the thirtieth Parliament and so forth. The words of clause 9 refer rather to a person who 'on ... at least 4 occasions . . . ceased to be a member upon the dissolution or expiration of the House of which he was then a member or upon the expiration of his term of office'. This is the provision whereby a member may choose to voluntarily retire, and after 12 years may do so. 
It might happen with a House of Representatives member that the expiration of four terms of office could occur in 10 years and therefore, after four periods of office, he would be able to retire; That would have no application or be no use whatsoever to senators because our term of office normally- I think we might see more normality sometime in the future- is six years. So it would be 24 years before a senator could qualify for the allowance. So that clause is of no use whatsoever to senators, except to the four fortunate senators from the Territories which have elections every three years. They would be in the same position as members of the House of Representatives. To some of us it seems to be quite unreasonable that they should be so picked out in that way. It is true that as this amendment operates now, for the purposes of this clause and the clause in relation to the eight-year period, it declares us to have a termination every three years. That means that people who come into Parliament together -into the House of Representatives and the Senatewould therefore not tend to have the same rights of voluntary retirement. In the present position the provision for an earlier period would not be of any value whatsoever to senators. I suggest that the amendment is logical and sensible. Of course, it will not put senators into two different categories. 
It might be argued that we face only two elections in that period. On the other hand, one could argue that many members of the House of Representatives in perfectly safe seats face no real peril at any time in their political lives and, of course, we may face more peril than they do. Senators are involved very much, as are House of Representative members, in the actual stress of elections. I suggest that if this legislation is to be applicable to House of Representative members and to senators from the Territories, then the amendment, as it has been phrased, has the effect of making it equally applicable to the rest of the Senate. 
-Before the Minister for Social Security replies I must say that  Senator Wright's  so-called intuition is quite mistaken. Overnight I and some other honourable senators noted that the Parliamentary Contributary Superannuation Amendment Bill made a completely different reference to senators from the reference it made to members of the House of Representatives. In the normal sense, it would not have an application to senators.  Senator Wright  has indicated that there is some subtle purpose behind this amendment. So far as I and other honourable senators are concerned, the purpose of this amendment was to draw attention to the fact that the Bill as it had been drafted did not relate to that. To suggest that the amendment is designed for individual cases is a totally unworthy suggestion. The amendment has been drawn up by the Parliamentary Counsel for the purpose of covering the different situation of senators. Although its language might be complex- I agree that it is complex- it seems to me that it does achieve that purpose. To suggest that there is any other purpose behind the amendment I think is utter nonsense. 
-Before the Minister for Social Security replies I suggest to  Senator Wright  that the people to whom he has referred will be included in the period where there is an 'occasion'. If there is a three-year period or if, in the case where someone comes in to fill a vacancy, there is a lesser period that period will constitute one of those four occasions'. But the amendment provides that where someone has a six-year term, which is the normal term of a Senate election, and he gets through the first three years of that term those three years will constitute one of the occasions. That senator would then go on to serve the second one. I do not think that this amendment in any way disparages the terms of the other person; it merely provides that where a six-year period applies at least one can divide that into two periods for the purpose of the 'occasions'. That is my view of this matter. 
-The question was raised whether this clause will cover the situation of up to seven years. The Committee was asked who would receive the pension in that situation. Senators will not achieve a pension under that result.  Senator 
Wright asked about those who survived a number of elections. He asked whether they would qualify. But that situation would apply to members of the House of Representatives too. They would survive four elections in that period. It is true that there would be a series of quick and early elections. People would not serve their full term. They would have to face an election at an earlier time. Over that period where there are quick elections there are members who will qualify at an earlier stage than they would have qualified under the eight-year rule. This would be so in the case of involuntary retirement. This form of wording is used in the original Act. But today we are amending that situation. The situation in relation to the eight-year rule has hardly ever been applied. How could it be applied generally to a senator? 
In eight years if an honourable senator had a six-year term one would hardly expect that there would be two other terms. Under the rule one is required to have completed the term of office three times. That provision which has been in the Act for some years has never been of any use to an honourable senator. No doubt it has been of value to members of the House of Representatives and it could be of value to territorial senators, but it has not been of value to other honourable senators. This amendment picks up both those points. It picks up the provision in the case of what we hope will be a six-year term and thereby we will be treated on an equal plane with members of the House of Representatives and territorial senators. 
Yes, that is all we intend with this amendment. It is to synchronise our situation so that there will not be some special benefit arising out of this legislation to members of the House of Representatives and territorial senators. There will be the same provision. Of course, the provision applies to 12 years or a lesser period of four parliaments or eight years and three periods of office. I think it should apply to both honourable senators and members of the House of Representatives in the way in which  Senator Brown  has mentioned. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Acting Prime Minister or, alternatively, the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to the existence in Australia of the extreme right wing political organisation which goes by the name of the National Front. Is the Minister aware that the Australian division of the National Front held its inaugural meeting in Melbourne last Saturday? Is the Minister further aware that the Front sees as amongst its main aims the introduction of apartheid for Aboriginals, the repatriation of all non-white immigrants from Australia, and the propagation of white minority rule in Rhodesia and South Africa? Can the Minister assure the Senate, firstly, that no government department, agent or instrumentality will, in any manner, be involved with the National Front in the fulfilment of these aims; secondly, that the Commissioner for Community Relations will maintain a constant check on the Front's activities to ensure that it does not breach the Racial Discrimination Act 1975; and, thirdly, that the National Front will not be allowed to violate the conditions outlined in the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the United Nations Declaration on the Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimination, both of which have been ratified by Australia? 
I present the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on the annual reports referred to the Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
In this report the Committee has commented on matters raised in eight annual reports which have been referred to it. Most reporting bodies mentioned the difficulties caused by staff ceilings or by reductions in funds. But without undertaking extensive investigations the Committee was, of course, unable to independently assess the problems which they face and accordingly did not consider it appropriate to make recommendations on these matters. The only exception related to the Law Reform Commission. In the course of a public hearing in March of this year in connection with the Committee 's reference on Processing Law Reform Proposals, the Committee was presented with sufficient detailed information by the  Chairman  of the Law Reform Commission, the Honourable  Mr Justice  Kirby, to enable assessment of the Commission's difficulties. The Committee has requested that the Government direct the Public Service Board to re-examine the Commission's application for an increase in its staff ceilings in the light of the fact that it has received eight new references since the ceiling was imposed. 
The report of the Administrative Review Council points out that the process of appealing against administrative decisions is a complex one and that this situation is exacerbated by the numerous Commonwealth tribunals and administrative bodies that presently exist. This Committee calls for a simplification of the whole administrative review system and has recommended that the Government should consider transferring to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal jurisdiction from other tribunals where possible. Both the ninth and tenth annual reports on the operation of the Bankruptcy Act 1966 have indicated that amendments to the Bankruptcy Act which will overcome certain deficiencies in the Act were to be introduced into the Parliament. Additional investigation by this Committee found that in January 1 978 the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, the Honourable Wal Fife, announced that the Government had approved the introduction of a Bill to amend the Bankruptcy Act. However the Bill has not yet been introduced into the Parliament. In the light of the important amendments contained in this legislation this Committee has recommended that the Bill be introduced into Parliament early in the 1978 Budget Session. The Committee has also examined the annual reports of the Commonwealth Arbitration Inspectorate; the Trade Practices Commission; the Australian Institute of Criminology; the Criminology Research Council; and the Legislative Drafting Institute. The Committee has made a number of recommendations relating to these bodies which it commends to the Senate and to the Government. 
The Committee is losing four of its present members, two of them,  Senator Devitt  and  Senator Tehan,  by retirement from the Senate on 30 June, 1978 and two others,  Senator Button  and  Senator Wheeldon,  because of the pressure of other duties. We are particularly indebted to  Senator Devitt  and  Senator Tehan  for their attendance and close interest in hearings on the recent references and in the preparation of the reports of the Committee despite their pending departure and other responsibilities.  Senator Button  has been a valuable member of the Committee since his election to the Senate in 1974 and has taken a lively interest in the many investigations conducted by the Committee since then. We are sorry to hear of his illness today.  Senator Wheeldon  replaced  Senator James  McClelland on the Committee on 24 August 1977 and has applied his keen mind to our various references. The Senate is indebted to the four senators for their services and I am particularly grateful to the  Deputy Chairman, Senator Chaney,  for his unflagging interest and assistance. 
I support the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill 1978 in its entirety and express my view that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  deserves the praise of Parliament and the people for the courageous way in which he has stood up to pressure and has proceeded with the legislation as it is. He has not bent one whit to the winds of criticism that have come forward from small parts of the public and which regrettably have swept away some of the nerve of some of my colleagues even on this side of the chamber. 
I believe that what this legislation does, very desirably, is to ensure that a number- I think it is six, not seven- of rather crooked schemes which have been concocted to find ways around the tax laws, are put to an end. They include, of course, the Curran scheme which operates by the issue of bonus shares. They include a method by which gifts are given to a fund or an institution, involving the payment of a large procurement fee to the promoter of the scheme, leaving the donor with a huge tax deduction- a particularly objectionable misuse of charity. They include a scheme involving the tax deduction of manufactured or artificial share trading losses. They include dividend stripping, a scheme by which a company buys shares in a company with accumulated profits, strips these profits by way of dividend payments and then sells the stripped shares- another quite objectionable and useless piece of business dealing. They include the reimbursement dividends involving illusory dividend payments to shareholders. Finally, they include the abuse of income averaging provisions by people who have no real stake in a primary production business, and who have become beneficiaries in a primary production trust simply to gain the benefit of the averaging provisions. 
The first thing this Bill does is to remove, indeed to destroy, the operation of those schemes.  Senator Tehan  asked why only one in seven- I think one in six is the correct numberof the schemes has been made retrospective. I say to him that the one scheme which obviously was going to be the greatest bleeder of the taxpayers' money and the greatest imposition on the ordinary, honest taxpayer of this country, was the Curran scheme- and that is the scheme that has been made retrospective. I shall come later to the argument as to whether it accords with the principles of my party, the Liberal Party for which I stand. I do not invite my colleagues from another Party to tell me the principles upon which my Party is founded. 
There has been a massive campaign against this legislation, certainly against the retrospective part of it. One finds amongst the correspondence, particularly that from Victoria, efforts such as a telegram which I produce. It is three feet long and I have shown it to some honourable senators. No doubt it contains someone 's whole list of customers. I wonder whether they know anything at all about the telegram. No doubt if they did, they would approve of the telegram. Perhaps the Commissioner of Taxation would have liked to know about this telegram. But probably it will not be of much importance because I suppose that after the Bill is passed, those people will no longer have much incentive for these tax schemes. But as I say, we have had this pressure from people. At the same time, I have found that there are different pressures because many other people, such as solicitors who run respectable practices and who are concerned in this area. They have said to me: 'You must stand firm. The Government must stand firm on this matter'. Ninety-five per cent of the people are honest and have put aside the Curran scheme. They will not have a bar of them. Of course for the Government to give way on this issue of retrospectivity would mean a tremendous loss of faith, particularly among those decent taxpayers who would not have a bar of such a scheme. 
We have heard some interesting arguments tonight. A little bit of an argument went on tonight between  Senator Walsh  and  Senator Lewis.  One, of course, looks almost in vain to find something in  Senator Walsh's  speech with which one can agree. 
Just a moment.  Senator Walsh  was, I believe, supporting the legislation, although it is very difficult to tell. He could point only to greedy money-making as the reason why the Government was proceeding with this legislation. That is nonsense. It is a matter of principle and the Treasurer is to be commended for that principle. One must of course ask: Why was this legislation not brought in in 1974? Further, one might well ask why the Labor Treasurers who succeeded  Mr Crean  did not go ahead with the scheme. Who brought pressure to bear on them not to do so? If  Senator Walsh  likes to suggest that the Government is under pressure or that it is lacking in principle, perhaps he can tell us the reasons why  Mr Whitlam  's Government did not introduce such legislation. But I am prepared to be generous about this. I will not put the matter on such a basis. I will put it on the basis that there was such a flow of Treasurers, such a change of Treasurers, that the Whitlam Government could not get around to attending to the major matters that affected this country. I am a generous man and I am prepared to give the Whitlam Government the benefit of the doubt. 
When  Senator Walsh  has an argument, as he did tonight with  Senator Lewis,  about whether avoidance' and 'evasion' are the same thing, I must disagree with  Senator Walsh  and agree slightly with  Senator Lewis.  Those words are not just euphemisms; they are of course two different things. While I agree with  Senator Lewis  I must say that sometimes 'avoidance', as it is called, is a much worse thing than evasion. If a small shopkeeper keeps a few dollars of his takings, does not actually put it in his till and does not account for it and so forth and thereby avoids a little bit of tax, that is reprehensible. 
-That is right, Senator; that is evasion. But then we come to the people who arrange the schemes that try to wreck our economic system. Their activities may result in a $500m loss of revenue to this country which will have to be made up by other taxpayers in this community. I say that their activities are much more reprehensible. It is a much more undesirable course to create these crooked schemes that may have legal validity, but for which we have an absolute moral repugnance, which are useless and which are therefore being knocked down by this legislation. I say to  Senator Lewis  that there is a difference between 'avoidance' and evasion', but sometimes I think that avoidance is much more important and more dangerous than the minor evasions of life. 

 Senator Lewis and another honourable senator are also concerned about the discretions in this Act. There are, of course, many discretions in this Act. I too would like an income tax Act which was more simple and I think this should be looked at again. But in dealing with schemes like this, I do not think it is possible to avoid the discretion which must be given to the Commissioner ofTaxation. 
-Senator Wright will know that where there is an abdication of Parliament, I will be with you. On the other hand, we cannot expect Parliament to sit here exercising all the discretions all the time because we do not meet all of the time and we are not in a position to do so. We must leave it to the public servants who are judging schemes such as this, to act and to make up their own minds on all the material before them- of course, any taxpayer can put such material before them- whether a scheme is an honest and genuine one or one which is merely an evasion or an avoidance of tax. That is something in which we must allow quite a bit of discretion on the part of the Commissioner of Taxation. 
There has been an argument in the House of Representatives about one particular matter.  Senator Tehan,  a member of the National Country Party, suggested tonight that we Liberals were somehow evading our responsibilities under our platform if we did not oppose this retrospective legislation. As one of the writers of the Liberal Party platform I welcome the increased interest in our platform which has been shown in this debate and which is now being shown by other members of other parties. I should like to clear up the matter because in the debate on this legislation, particularly in the House of Representatives, a number of speakers quoted selectively from our platform. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a copy of a one page document which sets out the taxation platform of the Liberal Party. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

TAXATION 
While recognising the key function of the tax system in providing revenue to finance government expenditure, the Liberal Party also recognises its significant roles in relation to economic management, minimising social hardship, and encouraging or discouraging specific areas of activity. The system must be easy to understand, simple and inexpensive to administer, fair in appearance and in practice, and subject to continuing review. 
The achievement of these objectives requires a tax system in which- 
Taxation is equitable as between taxpayers in a similar position. 
The tax burden upon individuals has regard for their ability to pay. 
Individual incentive is encouraged particularly by ensuring that 
the burden of personal income tax is not excessive; 
adjustment is made from time to time for inflationary effects. 
Direct and indirect taxation is based on principles which will ensure maximum benefits to taxpayers with family responsibilities and those in low-income groups. 
The rights of the taxpayer are safeguarded by 
minimising discretionary powers and by asserting the fundamental right to be heard; 
assuring taxpayers a fair hearing before judicial and administrative bodies; 
maintaining confidentiality of information; 
ensuring that taxation adjustments do not have a retrospective effect. 
Taxation adjustments, undertaken for general economic purposes, take full account of the effects on resource allocation and income distribution. 
There is continuity in application as it affects industry and commerce to maintain stability and permit effective forward planning. 
Commonwealth taxation policies are developed in harmony with State and local government tax systems. 
Taxation avoidance schemes will be eliminated. 
Tax evasion is a crime and will not be tolerated. 
-The Liberal Party policy is a document that is coming more into currency. I am glad to say that it is coming into its own right. Let us put it in context. As set out in this document, we say we want a taxation system which is simple and inexpensive to administer. It is true that we have not got that yet. We want a system that is fair in appearance and practice- I think we could do much more about that- and subject to continuing review. Honourable senators should note our objectives. What is omitted by those who try to quote the platform is the number one objective, which is: 
Taxation is equitable as between taxpayers in a similar position. 
The retrospective decision here is essential to ensuring that taxpayers are indeed treated in an even degree. Instead of doctors who have made such a practice of the Curran scheme telling people, as they do, that they will not have to pay tax for years to come and instead of doctors not paying tax and the rest of the taxpayers paying more, all taxpayers who can afford to pay should pay. Our platform provides that the rights of the taxpayers are safeguarded by a number of principles. The fourth is: 
ensuring that taxation adjustments do not have retrospective effect. 
That, of course, is the important thing. That is one of the principles. It is a general principle but not a universal principle by which we stand: We do not like retrospective legislation in general. Unless there is good reason for it, we will not support it. That is the practice we apply in this Parliament. The Regulations and Ordinances Committee of this Senate of which I am a member, is constantly facing retrospective legislation and retrospective documents which make grants and which increase pay and do other things. They go back to some period because there is some shortage of draftsmen or because somebody has not got around to changing the regulations. We look at the case carefully and in most instances say: 'Yes, it is justified. It would be unfair not to do it'. But in other cases we say: This is wrong'. Last year we passed an Act which denied American courts the opportunity of actually taking evidence. There is no doubt that it was retrospective legislation. It interfered with rights. But it was believed by the Parliament, without any opposition, I believe, that it was a necessary and desirable piece of legislation. There was not a call at all against retrospectivity in that case. 
I think it was  Senator Tehan  who read a number of quotations in relation to this matter. I think a quotation was read also by an earlier  speaker.  I remind the Senate again of another Lord- Lord Greene- a noted English judge. In a case in 1942 he stated: 
The fact that the section has to some extent a retrospective effect appears to us of no importance when it is realised that the legislation is a move in a' long and fiercely contested battle with individuals who well understand the rigour of the contest. 
Of course, in this case one understands that the rigour of the contest was well known to those people who engaged in the schemes. We know that many people engaged in these schemes with assurances from their accountants that they would get money back, that there would be a refund if the amendment were made retrospective. We know in fact that some of them will get that refund. When one reaches that situation one knows that this retrospectivity, if it is retrospectivity at all, can be justified. I make this qualification: Is it retrospectivity at all? Other honourable senators have asked this same question. In my opinion, it is not. In my opinion, when the Treasurer said that this was retrospective legislation but justified, he was being over-fair and over-generous. In my opinion, retrospectivity applies as a principle when people take steps, incur expenditure and set out their order of life in such a way that they are committed for years ahead. Then, after that, it is said that it is unfair to penalise people for that. 
But, in this case, what does the legislation say? The legislation says to those people who have earned their big income this year: 'After the end of June you will not have an excuse for getting out of the legislation. You will have no excuse for not paying tax. You will pay the normal tax you would have paid in any case. Your little excuse, your little scheme, will fall to the ground'. I do not regard that in any way as being retrospective legislation. But, if on any definition it is, then I say it is essentially retrospective in the public interest, otherwise it will cost the taxpayer a very considerable amount indeed. 
At times some people have raised the questionthis was particularly so in the debate in the other House- of how much it would cost. The estimate which the Treasurer gave in relation to the absence of the retrospectivity proposal concerning the Curran scheme was something of the order of $500m. Some people have said that that may be too much. But I draw the Senate's attention to the words of a particular expert group, the Taxpayers' Association. In its 3 June 1978 edition of its publication  Taxpayer,  it said: 
But the Treasurer wasn't able to put a firm figure on it except to say that somewhere around $500m seems a minimum estimate. 
Of course we shall never know. If the legislation is passed (and it surely will be), then taxpayers won't be disclosing in tax returns that they attempted a Curran scheme in recent months. 
So we will not know! It is suggested also in argument in various places that it cannot be as much as $500m because that would mean that a lot of income would have to be earned to enable it to be that much. The Taxpayers' Association went on to say: 
Some of the parliamentary debate was along the lines that, if the rumoured high cost of the Curran scheme was well-founded then it would require far more in capital profits than commerce has made. 
However that argument fails when it is realised (and this was mentioned in debate on the measure) that ability to finance a bonus issue from revaluations of capital assets gave limitless scope. 
There has been talk of companies being 'reused' for Curran schemes- by making an up-valuation of goodwill to create enough profits, issuing the shares, and at some notmuchlater time down-valuing goodwill in readiness for the next round. 
If that can be done and if it is done, of course it is impossible to calculate how far this can go. Criticism has been made of the failure to give sufficient notice of what was being done. I do not support the Opposition's amendment which seeks to back date the amending legislation to 1 
July. I do not think there is any particular reason why that date is chosen. The date we have chosen is the date of the reasonable announcement made by the Treasurer last year. Nobody in his right senses would not have realised that it was not intended to include that period. 
I remind  Senator Georges  that the Opposition's amendment seeks to back date all the alterations to 1 July 1977. That is a neat date but that is the only thing going for it. 
I do not see how  Senator Georges  can say that it makes any difference to his argument whether the date is the date the Opposition has chosen or 16 August. The position is, of course, that the Opposition could say that it wants the amending legislation to date from the time which  Mr Crean  suggested. However, I think that would be unfair. The real damage has been done to the economy in this financial year, and I think that the date we have suggested is good enough. In the April edition of its publication the Taxpayers ' Association said: 

 Mr Lynch 's statement in the Budget Speech on 1 6th August wasn't as brief as many think it was. Although Curran schemes weren't mentioned specifically (to do so would have given strength to the view that the warning then was to be limited to Curran schemes), reading between the lines it isn 't hard to see that those tax-planning arrangements were a major target. Over the coming weeks, only the naive would envy the position of Parliamentarians having the pressure put on them to back-pedal on a difficult decision already taken. 
I do not know who is envying the parliamentarians. I hope that they will stand up to such pressure. By and large I believe that they really have done so. I refer also to what I think might be a good general conclusion on this subject. It is a statement which was made in the editorial column of the  Australian  newspaper on 20 April 1978. It stated: 
For the Senate to even dream of giving the tax dodgers protection at this late date is not in the Government's interest, not in the economy's interest and it is certainly not in the interests of ordinary justice and fair play. Above all, it would be a straight affront to the 99 per cent of Australian citizens who pay their taxes as they are assessed, perhaps with complaints and perhaps with resentment, but without hesitation as a social duty. 
The Government must stand firm by its just and stated intentions to prevent the tax dodgers from taking advantage of the rest of the Australian community. 
I think that in a nutshell puts the case. It puts the case for this legislation and for that part which seeks retrospectivity, if that is what it is, which is included in it. I stand foursquare behind this legislation and behind the retrospectivity provision. I believe it is a desirable piece of legislation. It is certainly not the end in any way to tax reform. Obviously a lot more needs to be done. The Treasurer has made announcements and fortunately there is now a better procedure. But if in the past there have been, as I believe there have, mistaken weaknesses and slowness on the part of governments to take the action taken in this legislation, the taxpayers of this country should not be the people who pay the penalty. They should not be the people who suffer the penalty. It should be the people who have endeavoured by rather crooked schemes and in ingenious ways to get around the tax laws of this country. I believe, therefore, that this legislation deserves the strong support of the Australian people. I believe it will have that support in this Parliament. 

 Senator Sir REGINALD WRIGHT (Tasmania) (9.18)- I will not speak unless the Senate is in constitutional validity. I call for a quorum.  (Quorum formed.)  The Senate is addressing itself to an amendment of the income tax legislation. 

 Senator Sir REGINALD WRIGHTHonourable senators believe they can come into and go out of this chamber as they like but this Parliament will sit for the rest of this week according to the Constitution. 
We are operating a system of taxation under which the little man who runs a small business can earn $8,000 a year and, with perhaps three children to educate, may receive an income tax demand of $3,600. Provisional tax would apply. The next year this person may work till 10 o'clock at night and by over extending himself may increase his income to $16,000 a year, for which he receives a demand of $9,600. Does Labor speak up for these people? We operate a system of income tax so outrageously excessive that the Roman emperors would have come back again and, instead of damning us, would have said 'we are disciples, we were beneficient'. As soon as the wage earner who  Senator McAuliffe  purports to represent gets above the basic exemption of $3,700 a year, the next dollar is taxed at the same rate as my dollar, which some people think is a huge income, which I think is more than sufficient and which is made up of the parliamentary allowance plus or minus $2,000 to $3,000 a year. Malcolm Fraser and other wealthy people are taxed at exactly the same rate on the first few dollars from $3,750 to $16,000. From $16,000 to $34,000 everybody is taxed at the rate of 46c in the dollar. Slaves or free menthe right to earn above $16,000 and be taxed for half? Slaves or free men? The virtuosos of the tax system applaud every individual who, with any advice, successfully can avoid the outrageously repressive taxation system that the Government is operating against the working man. The only escape for members of Parliament is to commute their retirement allowances to lump sums and the only purpose of that is to evade the taxation system. 
The second point I want to make is that certain loopholes are being closed up altogether too late by this legislation. However, many loopholes are still maintained and are open. Loopholes that have been the subject of official reports for years have not been closed. The greatest loophole of all at the moment is the exploitation of retiring allowances in the form of lump sum payments. The report of the Taxation Review Committeeknown as the Asprey report- had something to say about this. I mentioned this matter eight days ago but no one listened. I have been provoked into putting a little spirit into the issue at the moment and I will endeavour to maintain an energy to see that the public understands the situation. Do you remember, Madam Acting Deputy President, that the Asprey Report which I mentioned eight days ago said - 

 Senator Sir REGINALD WRIGHT- If the honourable senator puts his question in that form, of course I spurn an answer. Let the honourable senator judge me by my record. Let the honourable senator ask any Cabinet Minister whether I propagated these arguments or not. I am not afraid. You can use their answers against me. They can attest to the confidence in my argument. I will maintain my cause. Do not start interjecting, or disparaging my purpose, because I want to bring to the notice of the public that there are greater abuses of the taxation system still uncorrected than appear in this Bill. Reference to it is made in the Asprey report at page 353. 
However, it has lately become clear that the Commissioner is unable to resist claims that section 51(1) authorises the full deduction of retiring allowances paid by publiccompanies where it can be established that the payments are made for one or more of the following reasons: 
as a matter of commercial expediency . . . 
as a meansof ensuring greater efficiency; or 
as a means of inducing executives to press themselves to the limit by giving them the prospect of being treated generously on their retirement. 
Once the company has established that the payment was made for one or more of these reasons- and in practice it is not difficult to establish this- then the quantum of the lumpsum payment  is  for the  company  itself to determine and it must be allowed a deduction for the full amount. Instances of amounts of up to $250,000 being paid by public companies to retiring executives and deducted under section 51(1) have been brought to the notice of the Committee. In some of these cases the executives have also received very large amounts from the companies' superannuation funds and also under service contracts. The amounts received by the executives are reported to have been assessable only as to 5 percent . . . 
That is of the amount involved. The executives of public companies are trustees for their shareholders, carrying on the big enterprise, just as members of parliament are trustees for their electors, carrying on the national enterprise. They are exploiting the discretions- against my vote in 1964- just as the members of this Parliament, as I pointed out last week, are seeking to exploit lump sum payments to evade income tax. 
One honourable senator reproached the primary producers for devising family trusts to avoid income tax. It may be so in large capital enterprises, carried on by companies such as Amatil, or large families that have amassed fortunes, millions; but the idea of creating family trusts, for whom trustees carry on the business and profits flow to the beneficiaries, has gone into the metropolis and has corroded and corrupted. Any ordinary taxation officers- one does not need an official report- or anyone in government with the slightest responsibility, is conscious of the fact that a bush fire is developing that will completely subvert the income taxation system. Everybody will declare that his business enterprise is for and on behalf of a trust, consisting of a number of people without income, and it will therefore absolutely subsume the idea of income tax according to a graduated scale. Family trusts are formed for the purpose of carrying on a business. In a primary production it is not a problem. Very few primary producers are making a cent in taxable income, but what few are doing so are trying to rear their families at an exiguous income of about $5,000. It is because of that absolutely objectional situation that my fire is engendered. I will not stand here to support the idea that this Bill represents a virtuous inspiration from St Paul, belatedly conceived, to condemn the Curran scheme. 
I am moved to say that I have no enthusiasm for a government that condemns such a scheme and leaves uncorrected even more rascally evasionary schemes. So far as I am concerned, pity it is- and I will never be permitted to establish it- that it is Parliament that will decide when and what taxes are to be imposed. We may have a snooty Treasurer who says 'I do not like that scheme; we will avoid it', but unless he brings it to the Parliament with the same speed and dedication of purpose that was applied to the Parliamentary Contributory Superannuation Amendment Bill last Thursday and Friday, it will be for nought. If he can bring in such legislation for his own benefit, and for the benefit of members of parliament, why can he not bring in promptly a Bill for the judgment of the Parliament as to whether a certain practice should be outlawed. If we allow the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  or any other Minister to decide when particular schemes that seem to him to be obnoxious to the taxation system should be outlawed, we will create the greatest system of expediency and patronage that this country has seen. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health by referring to that Minister's announcement of 24 May that the Government had decided to abolish bulk billing for all medical patients with the exception of pensioners. Can the Minister assure the Senate that non-pensioner, but largely income bereft patients will not suffer as a result of the abandonment of bulk billing? Can the Minister inform the Senate what effect this decision will have on community health centres and public medical institutions, the majority of which have previously relied on bulk billing? Can the Minister assure the Senate that medical care for low-income non-pensioners will be kept at a high standard and provided at a relatively low cost? 
-As a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances I wish to add a few words. The 6 1 st report is a very historic occasion. It is the last report of the  Chairman, Senator Wood,  and of  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright. Members of the Committee have appreciated very much the work of both these honourable senators. We appreciate that this report, apart from what has been said, includes nine different regulations of importance which, as the report shows, have been repealed or amended as a result of representations of the Committee. This does not mean that there has been a debate in the Senate or a great argument with the Government. Evidence has been given, representations have been made and agreements have been reached. The work which the  Chairman  has done in this period in discussing matters and ensuring that the result is suitable to the Government and to the people of this country and protects their rights is important. 
The report records the last part of the work which  Senator Wood  and other honourable senators have done. What has been said already indicates the appreciation which is felt for the  Chairman  and  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright. The Committee has in fact added, as honourable senators will note, an addendum to the report. We have not discussed the addendum with the  Chairman  or  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright. The other members of the Committee- that is a big majority- have taken it upon themselves to assist upon an addendum being added. I will read the addendum because it should be in the record of  Hansard  and be heard by those who are listening tonight. It reads: 
The Committee has directed that this addendum be added to the Report to record the deep appreciation of the Committee, an appreciation which the Committee believes will be strongly endorsed by the Senate, of the long years of service to the Committee by its  Chairman, Senator Ian  Wood, and by  Senator the  Honourable R. C. Wright. 

 Senator Wood has served on the Committee for over twenty-eight years and has been its  Chairman  for more than twenty-two years.  His  assidious  and enthusiastic work is well known to the nation and has been of substantial importance in ensuring the success of the Committee as a constant watchdog over the regulation-making power of the Executive. 

 Senator the Honourable R. C. Wright has given to the Committee for many years his inestimable service as a lawyer and as a defender of the liberties of the people. 
The Committee believes that it has played an  important  part in establishing the Senate Committee system as we know it today and ensuring the predominance of Parliament and those two Senators have played unique roles in developing this tradition of the Australian Parliament. 
That is our expression in brief of the work which we feel requires the appreciation of the Senate and this Parliament to these two gentlemen members of the Senate. I feel that much of whatever has been achieved- it is very substantial- in the development of the committee system in this Parliament, and in this House in particular, is owed to these two honourable senators because of the work they have done. We, as members of the Committee, join in congratulating them both on their work and wishing them well. We hope that the Senate approves the work which they have done. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 1 1 May 1 978: 
1 ) Are taxation rebates on housing loan interest obtainable only on the first house acquired by the individual concerned. 
) Is the Minister aware of the case of  Mr Alan  Clark, of 100 First Avenue, South Melton, Victoria, who was forced to sell his house by order of the Country Roads Board only three months after he had acquired it, and does the Minister realise that, whilst a tax rebate was available for his first home, it was not available for the new home which he consequently had to buy. 
Will the Minister take action to ensure, in circumstances where an individual is compelled to sell his first home by order of a government authority, that the individual concerned should be afforded the same interest rebate for his new home as for the one he had been directed to sell. 
I present the report of the Joint Committee on Publications on its inquiry into the publication of Commonwealth Acts, statutory rules and legislation of the Territories. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
This is the fifth special report which the Joint Committee on Publications has presented to the Parliament since Standing Orders were amended in 1970 to give the Committee investigatory powers. It is the second special report which has been presented during this Parliament. The inquiry arises out of the Committee's concern regarding the delay in the publication of Commonwealth Acts, statutory rules and other Commonwealth and Territory legislation. It finds that the availability of most Commonwealth legislation in a readable updated form is in a most unsatisfactory state. I give the Senate examples: 
very few pamphlet reprints of Acts and statutory rules, as amended, have been produced since 1973; 
the latest issue of the annual Acts volumes relates to 1 974; 
the last issue of consolidated volumes of statutory rules covers the period 1 90 1- 1 956; 
the latest volumes of consolidated laws of the Australian Capital Territory cover the period 1911-1956. 
I could go on further. However, I think the point has been made. It is almost impossible for members of parliament, the judiciary, members of the legal profession and the individual citizen to be aware of the Commonwealth legislative provisions which exist in this country. The Committee regards this inquiry as one of an interim nature and at a later date will undertake a more complete investigation into further matters which relate to the Commonwealth's legislative publishing program. The Committee felt that, as a first step, it was more desirable to report the current parlous situation to the Parliament and to make recommendations designed to set in motion action to improve the situation. 
In the short time available to the Committee it interviewed officers from the Attorney-General 's Department, who are responsible for the Commonwealth legislative publishing program. In addition, officers from the Australian Government Publishing Service presented evidence on production and selling procedures. The officers from the Attorney-General's Department advised, that in the near future, they intended to publish consolidated volumes of laws of the Australian Capital Territory, consolidated volumes of statutory rules and some annual volumes of Acts and statutory rules. For reasons which are more fully explained in the report, the optimism suggested in the Department's publishing program was not shared by the Committee. The officers explained that they were having difficulty in filling vacant positions within its Publications Branch. They also stated that new procedures at the Government Printing Office which required additional proof-reading contributed to the delay. 
The Committee is of the opinion, however, that the delay in publishing the Commonwealth's legislative program is due mainly to the lack of forward planning. The Committee has made recommendations designed to rationalise the publishing program of the Department and lay down what it feels to be a satisfactory publishing timetable. This is to be found in paragraph 16 of the report. 
Basically, the Committee has asked that greater priorities be attached to the reprinting of Acts and statutory rules when substantial amendments have been made. Also, the Committee has suggested that, in future, all consolidated volumes of legislation, whether they be Acts, statutory rules or laws of the Territories, be produced on a regular basis at five-year intervals. The Committee is aware that the Department with its present establishment will have difficulty in meeting this suggested timetable and, therefore, it has recommended that a Public Service Board review of the Branch be undertaken to ensure that appropriate resources are allocated to the Department to enable it to adhere to the Committee's recommended publishing timetable. In the interim, it suggests that a task force of officers be employed to overcome the present backlog. 
In conclusion, I would like to thank the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  and officers of his Department, and officers of the Australian Government Publishing Service, for the prompt assistance which they provided to enable the Committee to complete this inquiry. Finally, I draw the attention of the Senate to the support and diligence which I received from the Committee in completing this inquiry. Without this, the investigation which was carried out at such short notice would not have been possible. I would like also to attract the Senate's attention to the fact that two members of the Joint Committee, namely,  Senator Donald  Cameron and  Senator Tehan  will not be with the Committee after 1 July, due to their retirement from the Senate. I wish to thank these gentlemen for the support which they have given the Committee over the years. I wish them well in their retirement. I commend the report to the Senate. 
I bring up the third report from the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
I address a question to the Attorney-General about the Government's law reform program, of which we were so proud in 1977. First, what has happened to the Criminal Investigation Bill, which has not been reintroduced in the new Parliament? I note in passing the Attorney-General's answers yesterday in regard to another Bill, the Human Rights Commission Bill. Secondly, when will we see legislation to set up a security appeals tribunal as promised in the 1977 election campaign? Thirdly, what action has been taken to implement all or any of thu recommendations of the Family Law Council concerning family law legislation and administration, which recommendations have been in the hands of the Attorney-General since mid- 1977, and which are described in detail in the Council's 1977 annual report? Fourthly, what success has been achieved in solving the chaos and conflict of State and Federal family law jurisdictions, on which negotiations have proceeded now for more than two years? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Did the Prime Minister refuse, on 20 October 1977, to make public the interdepartmental committee report presented to him on measures needed to improve counter staff services to the general public; if so, why. 
Will the Prime Minister reconsider the decision. 
How does the Prime Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
Has a series of reports from the Medibank Review Committee, referred to in House of Representatives  Hansard,  26 May 1977, page 2019, been withheld from the public; if so, why. 
) Will the Minister re-consider the decision. 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Did the Minister for Administrative Services refuse, on 25 October 1977, to make public the Commonwealth Police report on damage to equipment on Christmas Island; if so, why. 
Will the Minister reconsider the decision. 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Did the Minister refuse, on 8 November 1 977, to make public the licences, or record of the terms and conditions of such, issued under the Whaling Act 1960 to Cheynes Beach Holdings Limited, if so, why. 
Will the Minister reconsider the decision. 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
Did the Minister refuse, on 19 September 1977, to make public a report prepared by his Department on the Aboriginal Medical Service at Redfern; if so, why. 
) Will the Minister re-consider the decision. 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Did the Minister refuse, on 8 September 1977, to make public a report of the interdepartmental committee established to advise the Government on the constitutional, financial and administrative issues associated with the transfer of executive responsibility to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly; if so, why. 
Will the Minister reconsider the decision. 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
asked the Minister for 
Science, upon notice, on 4 April 1 978: 
Did the Minister refuse, on 12 October 1977 to make public the submissions made by the Science Department to the Government regarding the exploration and development of the Antarctic region; if so, why. 
2 ) Will the Minister reconsider the decision. 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to the  decision announced by the Commonwealth Government at the last Premiers Conference to reduce its funding of home care services and the salaries of welfare officers under the States Grants (Home Care) Act from a $2 for $1 subsidy to a $ 1 for $ 1 subsidy. Is the Minister aware of the public criticism levelled at this decision by groups such as the Brotherhood of St Laurence and the Do Care welfare organisation which claim that it will severely harm the interests of the frail and aged members of the Australian community? 
Does the Minister agree with the prediction that this cut-back in funding is likely to force many thousands of elderly people out of their homes and into publicly financed institutions? In the light of these criticisms, and given that the people concerned are already severely disadvantaged, will the Minister indicate to the Senate whether she is willing to reconsider the decision? 
I suggest that what  Senator Mason  has said is very sensible. It should not merely be a matter of members filling in positions on committees. In view of the record that has been achieved by standing committees over the years, obviously anyone who is to go on to a committee should go on to it because he or she wants to carry out a certain piece of work in some area. Therefore one would hope that the arrangements between the Opposition and the members of the other group would be amiable in the sense that those people who have a particular skill in an area and who want to go on to a committee should have the opportunity to participate. 
I do not think it can be said that it is terribly easy for the committees that exist to be always 100 per cent staffed by people who are entirely enthusiastic. Quite often someone goes on to a committee to fill a position but is not able for very good reasons to carry out the task as well as he or she might like. I therefore think we should bear in mind the success of the committee system and its future success if it is to take on the role in the legislative sense of having to look at Bills in a much more regular way. Obviously this is a task in which committees will be deeply engaged in the future. I know that that is a proposal in the other report. Nonetheless we should bear that in mind. Obviously a good deal of work has to be done and the people who want to get on to the committees will have a pretty serious task ahead of them. 
I hope that the proposal, which seems to me to be a sensible one, works well. I hope that all members on both sides of the chamber will find the work of the standing committees of the Parliament useful to them and that that work will add to the prestige of the Senate by reason of the fact that committees are able to get people who are able to work and not just filling in on a committee. I, therefore, think that this is a useful proposal but obviously it is not the only point that arises in regard to this question. I think it is a useful proposal to put before the chamber. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
I too would support the recommendation made by  Senator Chaney.  It seems to me that when one has a situation in which a recommendation made by the Senate in 1973 did not bring forth any conclusion for about five years, in which on only one occasion did any Government act in accordance with that recommendation, but in which governments are turning over a new leaf and are offering to react within six months, we should take that as at least representing some improvement of the situation and try it out. 
Like  Senator Wriedt,  I agree that there are difficulties, and great differences between reports, in that some call for early action. I have in mind a Bill such as the Crimes (Foreign Incursions and Recruitment) Act, which went to a committee. We recommended action within 21 days but it was something like six or nine months before the Bill came back. That would seem to be a rather excessive period to deal with an urgent matter. On the other hand, there are reports that are very complex and require the attention of a number of ministries, that a lot of things be done. In those circumstances six months would be a reasonable period. For this reason, it seems to me that we ought to send the matter back. At the same time, I hope that the expression made by  Senator Chaney  in this motion, which he read briefly to us, will be sufficient to indicate that we do, in principle, want to see it done, that it is just a matter of the difference between a three month and a six month period. 
Since this may well be going back to the Standing Orders Committee, I mention one other matter. It seems to be unsatisfactory that, if a report comes from a Senate committee and is tabled in the Senate, members of the House of Representatives get a copy of it but it is not, I understand, tabled or debated in that House. The converse applies on the perhaps less frequent occasions when a committee of the House of Representatives presents a report: It is not generally, I think, tabled in this chamber. We may recieve copies of it but do not debate it. I do not think that we need be so exclusive that we do not have the opportunity both of debating reports made by committees in the other place, and having the Senate's reports debated there. When one bears in mind that, under this recommendation, the Government will make a decision within six months and that most of the Ministers of the Government are in the House of Representatives but do not have the benefit of debating a Senate Committee report there, one must regard that as unfortunate. I hope that, if at all possible, consideration will be given to the idea that committee reports of the House of Representatives might be tabled in this chamber also, so that we may have the opportunity of taking the adjournment on them and debating them here. 
That is an interesting observation, and I am sure that the same principle applies: We ought to see the reports here and have the opportunity to debate them and the same should apply to consideration of our reports in the House of Representatives. I hope that, if at all feasible, that aspect will be considered by the Standing Orders Committee when the matter is before it again. 
-I support the proposal that is involved in this recommendation from the Standing Orders Committee. Like  Senator Georges,  I agree that there may be problems. One will have to look at this matter and see how it works. We may have to change it if upon looking at it and if at first experience it does not turn out as well as it might. I do not really think I can agree with the proposal brought forward by  Senator Wriedt,  namely that we ought to be looking at these matters before they become Bills. We are after all a House of review, and I think it is in our review function that we ought to be considering these matters. That is a function which the standing committees already perform. They consider references to them and often make substantial reports on matters that are not in the form of a Bill at all. 
This proposal is different from the House of Representatives proposals. It is setting up specific and separate committees- only two for a start, if I am not mistaken- and they will consider a number of these matters, but we have eight standing committees. Obviously the House of Representatives will not deal with a great number of Bills in this way. We may have a problem in that we have eight committees, and those committees have an opportunity to sit separately and to do this work. It is a rather considerable waste of the time of senators that in the Committee of the Whole all senators are considering the Committee stage of a Bill, and only a few senators have a particular interest in the subject under discussion. Other senators will be away doing other work. There could be several committees sitting at the one time, and this proposal would enable that to be done. There is one problem that I would like to raise in relation to this subject. Paragraph 1 9 at page 8 of the recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee refers to the established procedure in legislative and general purposes standing committees which is that the Minister in charge of the Bill is not a member of the committee. The report goes on to state: 
The Standing Orders Committee envisages, however, that, as is the practice in Estimates committees, the Minister and officers would attend meetings, when a committee may ask for explanations from the Minister, or officers, regarding the clauses of a Bill. 
Then the significant sentence appears: 
This would not necessarily inhibit the normal committee practice of calling witnesses. 
That is a fairly negative recommendation. It rather suggests that it is not likely that one of those committees would have witnesses called before it. I think that would be very unfortunate. Although it is of course very rare for witnesses to be called in the Parliament or in the Committee of the Whole as we are now, nonetheless I think it is desirable that when dealing with Bills this practice should be used. Recommendation 5 at page 1 1 of the report states: 
The procedure to be adopted by a legislative and general purpose standing committee shall, as far as possible, be the same as that in Committee of the Whole: 
Our Standing Orders, without reading them, contain provisions for witnesses to be called in the Committee of the Whole. I think it would be a very rare thing for this to happen; nonetheless I hope that it will not be regarded as a rare thing to happen when a committee is considering a Bill. Committees that are looking at Bills often need specialist assistance. If I may refer to the committee of which I am Chairman, the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, it often has been very valuable to that Committee to have a qualified lawyer, a lecturer in law or someone like that - 
We may have a number of lawyers on the Committee, but such assistance is very useful. For example, when the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs did a reference on the Evidence Act in the Australian Capital Territory the lecturer in law at the Australian National University was there and discussed various clauses, made suggestions, did some drafting and came up with proposals. So it can be very helpful to have present a witness who can give qualified evidence. 
-Indeed, as  Senator Mulvihill  says, a  few  trade unionists. I am not making any special claim for lawyers as expert witnesses. Some of the most expert and no doubt the most highly skilled and devious people in that mysterious game are probably trade unionists of experience, and I am sure they would be a good example of the use of witnesses. What I want to say about this matter is that there appears to be some inhibitions about the calling of witnesses. I hope that that will not be the case because it seems to me that it is of value to use them in committee activities. Paragraph 2 1 of the report of the Standing Orders Committee makes reference to the initial problems that may be experienced with the new procedure. One initial problem, as I see it, is who will decide which Bill will go to a committee and to which committee it will go. Sometimes a Bill may involve more than one aspect of interest. To take my own area of interest, there may be a Bill with a legal aspect to it and also a social welfare aspect to it. In that instance someone has to make a decision on which is the appropriate committee to consider the Bill. Clearly both committees will not deal with it. There is no provision in this report for any committee to be set up for the purpose of deciding which committee will look at such a Bill. I see this as a small problem which no doubt can be ironed out. 
One would think that there is quite a case for most or possibly all Bills to go to one of the committees for at least an initial or a cursory examination. One may ask whether it is a matter for the Government to determine which Bill is to get the real scrutiny. It may not be for the Government to decide. It may be something which the Senate itself should determine. I think that there is some case for a representative committee having a look at each Bill and then deciding: 'Yes, this is one suitable for examination. We cannot do all the Bills but this is a good one for examination and it ought to go to a particular committee '. I just throw that into the ring because that has not been determined in this report of the Standing Orders Committee. I do not want to be nitpicking in this consideration but I believe the proposal is an excellent idea and that, with our existing committees, we ought to be able to make quite a success of it. 
-! am sorry to delay the Senate and to return it from the heady subject of plum wine to another subject that has already been referred to, but I note that  Senator Button  tonight has had incorporated a petition. I received a petition from 44 citizens of the State of Victoria who sought likewise to make a complaint. Unfortunately it was not in terms that would be suitable for it to be placed in the record as a petition. They express their concern about certain statements on station 3CR and call on the Government to legislate against incitement to racial hatred and violence. I have shown this document, which I believe is in the same form as the previous one, to members of the Opposition. Without going further and saying any more than  Senator Button  has already said about the matter, I would like to have recorded their protest since they have gone to the trouble to acquaint the Parliament with it. I therefore seek leave to have the document incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted 

 The document read as follows- 

To the  Hon.  the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled, the petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
This petition is most humbly prayed that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, assured that 
The petitioners request that the Federal Government and Broadcasting Tribunal should enforce the required standard of broadcasting as laid down for all other stations,' on community radio 3CR call on Federal Government to legislate against incitement to racial hatred and violence. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Social Security or, alternatively, the Minister representing the Minister for Construction, concerns the great problems which paraplegic and quadriplegic people face in gaining quick or convenient access to public buildings and facilities in Australia. Does  the Minister agree that the new Australian Standard Design Rule No. AS 1428, which caters for easy access by people in wheelchairs to public buildings and community facilities, will help to meet the special requirements that disabled, incapacitated and elderly people have for access and mobility? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the Commonwealth Government will ensure that all public buildings constructed by or for it will abide by this design rule and therefore provide suitable opportunities and facilities for disabled members ofthe community? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 2 March 1978: 
Will the Minister make available to the Parliament copies of reports on the re-refining of lubricating oil in Australia, which have been prepared by officers of his Department and also which have been received from outside sources within the last two years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
Did the Minister refuse, on 22 December 1977, to make public the names of the organisations which made submissions to the Government on the Toose report into the repatriation system; if so, why. 
2 ) Will the Minister reconsider the decision. 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
Have instructions on alterations of the eligibility criteria for unemployment benefits, referred to in the Australian of 3 September 1977, been withheld from the public; if so, why. 
2 ) Will the Minister reconsider the decision. 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the 
Treasurer, concerns the collection and dissemination of statistics by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, a matter about which I have had correspondence with the Treasurer. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the Bureau of Statistics has been forced to decrease its supply of statistical information in traditional areas of study because of staff shortages and lack of funds? Is it true, for example, that statistics will no longer be collected in the important areas of foreign investment and ownership of Australian businesses? Is it also true that statistics will no longer be collected concerning unfilled job vacancies? Does the Minister agree that this is in breach of Article 6 (c) of the International Labour Organisation Convention No. 88 which has been ratified by Australia? Can he assure the Senate that the Bureau will, in the future, be  allocatedsuchfundsaswouldpermitistocon-  tinue its vital task of providing a variety of information to the Government, industry and the general public? 
-Along with other honourable senators I congratulate  Senator Mason  who made his maiden speech today. I congratulate him on throwing forward another idea. It is good that we have some new ideas going around the Parliament. I congratulate him too on having made his maiden speech on a non-broadcast day. That is an unfashionable sort of thing to do but I join with him in saying that it is better to give the speech on the occasion that suits one and to be free then to get into the debate whenever one wants. Again I congratulate him on his speech and wish him many other excellent speeches in the future. 
We are debating the Commonwealth Employment Service Bill 1978. One would perhaps doubt that to some extent on hearing tonight some rather vague dissertations on the subject generally of employment and various other matters. 

 -No, Senator Georges, even from your side there have been somewhat vague statements that have had very little to do with the Bill. I hope I will make some reference to the Bill even though I will be somewhat critical of it. Unfortunately I did not have the ready assurance and support which my colleague,  Senator Lewis,  had from the document of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  I am afraid I do find some difficulties in that criticisms of it have come to me from many sources. They are criticisms which I think ought to be explained in this Senate. At the same time, I think one should say that the Bill does cover a general purpose, which I think is admirable. It is a Bill designed to bring up to date and to give legislative expression to the Government's commitment to upgrading the Commonwealth Employment Service into a modern and effective manpower service. Insofar as the Bill does that, I think those are excellent objectives. The provisions, as referred to in the second reading speech:  are designed to establish the CES as a unified, clearly identifiable organisation, to provide a legislative framework for the CES which is appropriate for its development as a modern manpower service . . . 
I think it is desirable that this should be done and that this should be recorded in legislation. The problem that I find with the Bill and the criticisms which are made by many people are that it may do more than that: It may become an umbrella under which justification is sought to be established for it taking over much of the private industry which has been engaged in the employment service. I think it is only fair that those aspects should be noted. 
In the drawing of this Bill, of course great attention has been paid to the Norgard Report. This legislation implements many of the recommendations of the Norgard Review. But perhaps it should be pointed out also that the 
Norgard Review did instance some areas of warning for the community. This is pointed out at paragraph 9.16 of that report wherein it is stated: 
The Review strongly believes that it would be a misuse of taxpayers funds to pump such additional funds into the CES specifically to enable it to take over activities which are currently handled adequately by commercial agencies. 
That was said by the Norgard Review and the criticisms that have been made suggest that there is danger that competition with private industry may be excessive and may lead to a government monopoly. The position is that there are, of course, commercial activities engaged in the placement of people in employment. They sometimes operate in specialised areas such as engineering and medical services. They carry out, as  Senator Lewis  has said, very useful services for placing people in employment. The fact that these commercial agencies do not cover the whole field of employment does not mean that they do not have a right to exist. Equally, the fact that they have perhaps developed very considerably since the Commonwealth Employment Service was set up does not mean that they do not have an equal right to exist because they provide a very useful service to this country and to employers- and that service must be respected. 
The criticism which has been made of this Bill is very substantially dealt with in a number of letters that have been received by members of the parliament. One element that has been drawn to the attention of Liberal senators in this Parliament is the fact that our Liberal Party platform specifically issues a warning in regard to the purposes for which economic freedom is to be seen to be existing and strengthened. In that platform the following appears: 
Liberalism aims to create a society in which individual economic freedom exists. It recognizes that free enterprise is the crucial factor in achieving general economic progress. It acknowledges the importance of effective competition as a preventive of the defects of monopoly power and as the incentive to creativity and productivity. 
It is of course greatly opposed to monopoly power. I think we have to be concerned that monopoly power does not become predominant in our society. The Victorian Chapter of the Institute of Management Consultants in Australia Incorporated, in material written to various members, has this to say in that regard: 
Should the Bill pass ali stages we will see the strange situation of Liberal-National Country Party Government allowing a government department to operate in a manner which is in direct conflict with accepted Liberal philosophy regarding free enterprise. 
That may be too extreme a statement. It may well be that what could be said about this Bill is that there is indeed a possibility that this could happen. A lot will depend on the policy of the Government to see that this is not done. Therefore, the criticism is directed perhaps less to the terms of the Bill than to the fact that they may be misused. When one looks at the terms of the Bill one realises that one of the proposals contained in it relates to a manpower program. Among its objectives is an endeavour to enhance a person's opportunities to secure employment and to facilitate the movement of labour between occupations. Of course, that is a desirable objective. When one looks at the functions of the Commonwealth Employment Service which are described in clause 6 of the Bill one finds that paragraph (b) states one of the functions as being:  to assist employers and intended employers wishing to fill vacant positions of employment to fill them with available persons who are suitable for the performance of the duties of, and who meet the employer's or intended employer's requirements for, the positions; 
Very clearly there is in the Service a recognised purpose of assisting employers which may well be done to a degree which may threaten private industry. When one looks at this possibility one recognises that this matter was considered perhaps rather briefly in the second reading debate on this Bill in the House of Representatives. I will refer to two interesting, I think, observations. They are among the few references to this possibility. In concluding the debate  Mr Street,  the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, said: 
I compliment the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  on a very constructive speech. I agree with him on the benefits to job seekers of competition in the market place between those in the business of placing people in employment. 
So the Government is committed to the recognition of the importance of private employment services operating in the industry. The Australian Labor Party in this chamber has moved an amendment to add to the motion for the second reading the following words:  but the Senate is of the opinion that the Commonwealth Employment Service as envisaged under this legislation would be grossly inadequate as a vehicle for effective manpower policy. 
One realises from that that the policy desire of the Labor Party is to have a Commonwealth Employment Service which is so vigorous that it will wipe out the private industry altogether. To show that I do not misunderstand in any way the Labor Party in this regard I refer to the statements which were made by its spokesman,  Mr Young,  at page 2272  of Hansard of 1 1  May 1978 dealing with this Bill. He said: 
I note that the Minister said in his second reading speech the Government does not want a monopoly in the vacancy filling business. I cannot see any earthly reason why the Government should not have a monopoly. 
In other words, it is clear that the Opposition at the very least would like to use this Bill subsequently to enforce a monopoly; and the fears of people who have written to many senators are that this may come to pass. 
What is the major objection that has been raised? This is not an objection to the major features of the Bill because many things contained in the Bill are excellent. Therefore, I am taking this out of context and to some extent out of perspective in dealing with one major objection to it, but I think it is important that that be done. A major objection is that under this Bill there may be a very grave risk of a totally unfair degree of competition between the Commonwealth Employment Service and the private employment agencies operating already in the area. This was well said in a letter dated 20 July 1978 to me from a firm of accounting and management personnel called Read Carson and Associates in which the firm said: 
The private placement industry and the PEO have coexisted for many years because each performs a separate function. On the one hand, PEO assists unemployed and disadvantaged white-collar or professional persons to find jobs- and we have no quarrel with that role for the PEO. On the other hand, the private placement industry assists Managements by locating, interviewing and screening executives for new and vacant positions. Most of the candidates recommended by consultants to clients are employed already and many are seeking promotion to more senior levels. For this service, our clients are prepared to pay a fee. 
We do strongly object to an aggressive Governmentfinanced encroachment into a well-established and wellaccepted private industry by the TOTALLY UNFAIR practice of price cutting, i.e. charging no fee to clients. 
I believe that there is force in the criticism that if the Commonwealth Employment Service moves vigorously into competition in this area and charges no fee, it will not be surprising if employers prefer with increasing frequency to take the free service rather than the service for which they must pay. The fact that this is a fear has led to wide protests. There has been quite justifiable criticism- I think  Senator Lewis  raised it- of the private employment agencies that they have not raised their objections at an early stage. Correspondence shows that they were engaged in lengthy correspondence over many months with the Minister,  Mr Street,  and only in June were they talking about approaching members of Parliament and making clear their real protests. Since then there has been a lot of correspondence, particularly with senators from Victoria. It is regrettable that the private agencies did not make their objections at an earlier stage. 
Nonetheless, the objections should still be considered. Even if they do not have any effect, as they will not, on the passage of this Bill, they should be considered more carefully by the Government so that in the policies adopted and carried out by this Bill there will be no risk that what they fear may come to pass will in fact come to pass. 
It has been drawn to my attention by another company in this area that advertisements are being placed by the Professional Employment Office on behalf of large companies in the community. For example, I have an advertisement which has been placed in Melbourne on behalf of Myers, a very powerful firm which is now a client of the PEO but which was previously a client of private employment agencies. This is just one example of a very substantial loss by private firms to the Government, lt is suggested by the firms that the PEO is now going out positively to obtain work, particularly since February of this year. These are the up-to-date factors which I referred to  Senator Lewis  by way of interjection. It is claimed that operating by way of trial only in Sydney the PEO has raised its share of the market in the professional field, which was two per cent a year or two ago, to 1 1 per cent at present. The private agencies fear that this may be 50 per cent within a couple of years. I do not know the basis for the 50 per cent figure, but it appears very reasonable to me that the type of positive seeking of work by the PEO is likely to lead to a very considerable rise in its percentage because people naturally prefer to take advantage of a free service if they can. I suppose that the position is somewhat akin to Trans-Australia Airlines, a Government organisation, seeking to obtain the service of executives by offering free travel from Canberra to Sydney and Melbourne. Naturally, people would use that service and would not use the private service. It is feared that if a charge is not made by CES unfair competition will be created. 
The point has been made to me also that in the policies which have been adopted, the PEO has not been altogether co-operative with private industry. When PEO has advertised a certain person 's name, it has refused to deal with the private organisation which telephone and seek an interview. I am told that there is a lack of cooperation in this area, which I think at least is unfortunate. I know that the Minister has said- this point has been mentioned tonight- that the Commonwealth Employment Service must not charge; it must provide a free service. This statement is based upon the International Labour Organisation Convention No. 88 to which Australia is a signatory. My view, quite frankly, is that the Convention does not justify the conclusions that have been drawn. Ankle 1 of the Convention states: 
Each Member of the International Labour Organisation for which this Convention is in force shall maintain or ensure the maintenance of a free public employment service. 
The point I make is that that article does not mean that all aspects of the service should be provided free of charge. It is free for those persons who seek employment. Article 6 of the Convention deals with the purposes for which the Convention was made and states: 
The employment service shall be so organised as to ensure effective recruitment and placement, and for this purpose shall- 
assist workers to find suitable employment and assist employers to find suitable workers, and more particularly shall- 
The article goes on to state that the employment service shall do various other things. But the main purpose is to register applicants for employment, to take note of their occupational qualifications and to obtain from employers precise information on vacancies. Of course, the whole intent of the article is to ensure that there shall be an attempt made to obtain employment for persons and that such persons shall not be charged for the service. The service cannot be provided free in the full sense of the word. It is not free in regard to advertisements that may be placed. This has been pointed out tonight. People who advertise are charged for the cost of advertisements. Of course, they have an advantage in that no professional charge is made for the placing of the advertisement. However, they pay for the cost of placing the advertisement. In a sense, this service has been interpreted by the Minister as being free in every respect. It is not. In practice no attempt is made to make the service free in that sense. The meaning of the word free' has worried the High Court of Australia over the years when it has dealt with the interpretation of section 92 of the Constitution. It is a difficult word to interpret. But I do not think that there is justification to suggest that under this ILO Convention there is no entitlement to charge when competitive services are provided to an employer. 
I have said that the many representations which honourable senators have received in recent weeks have been based more particularly on a fear of where the policy might lead, a fear of competition which may destroy legitimate industries which have been working skilfully over some years. As stated in the Minister's second reading speech, it is intended that the CES undertake 'a substantial intensification of the program for staff training'. That is good. The Bill also deals with the provision of ground floor, shopfront accommodation for the CES in central business districts. This may lead to a very effective form of competition which will be all the more effective because there is no charge. Therefore, I believe that restraint must be exercised by the Government to ensure that there is fair competition with the private enterprise firms which legitimately operate in this area. Private agencies deal with the state of employment in professional areas. I realise that they are not concerned with the great bulk of unemployment. The very considerable area of unemployment which is substantial and which needs great attention from this Government and the community involves the young and the unskilled. Very little unemployment exists in the area which will be covered by the rather costly services to place people in employment. That is not the main unemployment area and the work to be done by the CES there will not have any substantial bearing on the rate of unemployment in this country. 
I emphasise that the private industry has raised serious concerns with honourable senators. It is not supported by many substantial interests. Perhaps the employer organisations have not supported private industry. That is short sighted but not surprising. When people are able to obtain something free, they will take it. Nonetheless, there is reason for some concern. I hope that the Government will look at this matter closely. Whether or not appropriate provisions are included in the Bill is not the point. 
-I am saying that the Bill does not give any protection to those firms. What I am concerned about is the policy which may suddenly flow from that. I suppose that the Bill could contain some provision to protect the private industry. I would be very happy if it did. Unfortunately, it does not. Failing that, I hope that the Government will at least ensure the enforcement of a policy that did not allow to continue a development which might threaten the existence of private industry. On that criterion, but with some criticism and with some reservation, I support the Bill. I hope that the matters I have raised will be considered by the Government most seriously. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
Did the Minister, on 12 September 1977 and 1 November 1977, choose not to make public an interdepartmental report on South Sea Islanders in Australia; if so, why. 
) Will the Minister reconsider the decision. 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
I present the following petition from 29 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned members and ex members of the Citizens Forces of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
On 14 February, 1975, the then Australian Government deprived the Officers and men of the Australian Citizen Naval Military and Air Forces of the distinctive and historic Decorations and Medals for long service and good conduct, namely the Reserve Decoration, the Efficiency Decoration, the Air Efficiency Award, the Efficiency Medal and Long Service and Good Conduct Medals, awarded for long and meritorious voluntary service in the citizen forces: 
The proposed substitution of the National Medal for these Decorations and Medals varies the principle of selective recognition of efficient voluntary service in the citizen forces in that it recognizes the period of service only and embraces also full time service as well in the defence forces as in the police, fire brigade and ambulance services: 
This deprivation caused and is continuing to cause serious discontent amongst personnel of the Citizens Forces who willingly and cheerfully give of their spare time outside their normal full time civilian careers, to serve Her Majesty and Australia: 
The Reserve Forces of Australia have been recognized by the present Government as a valuable- and costeffective component of the Defence Forces. Anomalously whilst the Government is actually supporting recruiting for these Forces it has imposed and continued this deprivation which as foresaid has depressed the morale of the Citizen Forces: 
Her Majesty has not cancelled the said Decorations and Medals. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray 
Your Honourable House take appropriate action to resume the award of the several distinctive Reserve Forces Decorations and Medals for Long Service and Good Conduct to members of the Royal Australian Naval Reserve, Army Reserve (C.M.F.) and the R.A.A.F. Citizens Air Force. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 1 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned members and ex-members of the Citizens Forces of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
On 14 February 1975, the then Australian Government deprived the Officers and men of the Australian Citizen Naval Military and Air Forces of the distinctive and historic Decorations and Medals for long service and good conduct, namely the Reserve Decoration, the Efficiency Decoration, the Air Efficiency Award, the Efficiency Medal and Long Service and Good Conduct Medals, awarded for long and meritorious voluntary service in the citizen forces: 
The proposed substitution of the National Medal for these Decorations and Medals varies the principle of selective recognition of efficient voluntary service in the citizen forces in that it recognises the period of service only and embraces also full time service as well in the defence forces as in the police, fire brigade and ambulance services: 
This deprivation caused and is continuing to cause serious discontent amongst personnel of the Citizens Forces who willingly and cheerfully give of their spare time outside their normal full time civilian careers, to serve Her Majesty and Australia: 
The Reserve Forces of Australia have been recognised by the present Government as a valuable- and costeffective component of the Defence Forces. Anomalously, whilst iiic Government is,  actually  supporting recruiting for these Forces it has imposed and continued this deprivation which as foresaid has depressed the morale of the Citizen Forces: 
Her Majesty has not cancelled the said Decorations and Medals. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
Your Honourable House take appropriate action to resume the award of the several distinctive Reserve Forces Decorations and Medals for Long Service and Good Conduct to members of the Royal Australian Naval Reserve, Army Reserve (CMF) and the RAAF Citizens Air force. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. I refer to the announcement by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development on 28 June that the Housing allowance experiment scheme was to be abandoned by the Commonwealth Government. I ask the Minister: Is it true that, as recently as 13 March this year, the public was informed that the scheme would be proceeded with and that any talk of cancelling or deliberately delaying the scheme was nonsense? Is it also true that the housing allowance scheme was included in the Government's 1977 Federal election campaign program and was referred to in the Governor-General's Speech as one of the Government's plans to 'help those in need, increase opportunities and bring about greater social justice'? Given this, can the Minister explain why this bold social experiment has, at this late stage, been cancelled? Will the Minister give some indication whether any parts of the scheme are to be incorporated into existing projects? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
Has the interdepartmental report on alternative methods of funding programs currently financed through section 96 grants, referred to in House of Representatives Hansard, 19 April 1977, page 975, been withheld from the public. If so, why. 
Will the Minister reconsider the decision? 
) How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Did the Minister refuse, on 2 November 1977, to make public the successful and unsuccessful tenderers for the lease of the duty free shop at Sydney International Airport. 
Did the Minister also refuse to disclose the contents of the lease agreement. 
If so, will the Minister indicate why he took such action, and whether he is willing to reconsider the decision. 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
I present the following petition from 76 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That radio 3CR Melbourne, be made to adhere to the required standards of broadcasting, as laid down for all other radio stations. 
The petitioners request that the Federal Government and broadcasting tribunal should enforce the required standard of broadcasting as laid down for all other stations, on community radio 3CR call on Federal Government to legislate against incitement to racial hatred and violence. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to the announcement made by the Acting Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs,  Mr Ellicott,  on 27 July 1978 that the Indonesian and Australian governments had made arrangements for the reunion of Timorese families. Was this arrangement intended to cover Timorese families being reunited in Australia as well as in East Timor? Is the Minister aware of the newsletters, numbered 14/78 and 16/78, printed in June-July 1978 by the Indonesian Embassy in Canberra- copies of which I have supplied to the Minister- which discuss the reunion of families only in the context of repatriating the Timorese currently living in Australia and in other countries back to Timor? Is the Minister concerned that the Indonesian Government appears to be refusing to give public recognition to the possibility of Timorese leaving East Timor to be reunited with their families in Australia? Will the Minister take action to ensure that the initial agreement of the two-way reunion of families is honoured by the Indonesian Government? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Have the McNeill reports on Trans-Australia Airlines, Qantas, the Australian Shipping Commission and the Australian National Railways, referred to in House of Representatives  Hansard,  9 December 1976, page 3760 been withheld from the public. 
Will the Minister reconsider the decision. 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Has the report of the interdepartmental committee inquiring, into the introduction of frequency modulation broadcasting, referred to in the  Australian,  12 August 1977, been withheld from the public, if so, why. 
Will the Minister reconsider the decision. 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
Did the Minister refuse, on 14 September 1977, to make public the report prepared by an interdepartmental committee on the implementation of the Green report into the Australian broadcasting system; if so, why. 
Will the Minister reconsider the decision. 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Did the Attorney-General refuse, on 2 1 September 1977, to make public a statement made by the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal regarding pecuniary interests. 
Was a similar request, made on 20 October 1977, not even replied to. 
If so, will the Attorney-General indicate why he took such action, and whether he is willing to reconsider the decision. 
How does the Attorney-General reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) Did the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs refuse, on  S  September 1977 to make public a report prepared by  Mr Justice  Brennan on six companies incorporated or registered in the Australian Capital Territory; if so, why. 
) Will the Minister reconsider the decision. 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
Has the interdepartmental committee report on the application of the Trade Practices Act 1 974 to governmental activities referred to in House of Representatives  Hansard,  24 May 1977, p. 1786, been withheld from the public; if so, why. 
) Will the Minister reconsider the decision. 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
I am the other senator who was a happy recipient of the telegram but I do not propose to argue it or to advance the same suggestion to you,  Mr President,  that you should worry yourself overnight about it. However, I did take the opportunity yesterday of replying to the telegram which  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  so kindly sent to me. I replied in these terms: 
I am delighted to hear you are at last considering protesting to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights over the violation of human rights, but perhaps you should be warned of the fate of those who live in glass houses. I am sure Miss Barbara Biggs will be relieved to hear that you are springing to her rescue at this late stage. She certainly should have been allowed to put her case to her fellow employees and not be treated with the denial of civil rights which is such a common feature of the situation in your own State. The widespread criticisms I have received from Australian citizens at your Government's cynical dismissal of the Aurukun and Mornington Island Councils, and your repeated attempts to deny decent self-management to the Aboriginal inhabitants has had and will have my constant attention. I will leave the problems of the Parliament House  kitchenhand  to others more attached to the culinary arts. 
ALAN MISSEN 

 Senator for Victoria 
I do not propose to dignify the telegram I received with any further comment. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister and concerns recent statements in the media which allege that the Commonwealth Government in its dealings with foreign buyers of Australian uranium is not adhering to the nuclear safeguards which the Prime Minister announced on 24 May last year. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether there is any foundation to these reports? Is the Minister willing to assure the Senate that, in addition to the undertaking that nuclear material supplied by Australia will not be used for military or explosive purposes, the Government will continue to require that Australian consent be gained before any of the nuclear material it supplies is transferred to a third party, enriched beyond the level of 20 per cent U235, or reprocessed by the buyer? 
I rise to support the Budget and to make some comments on it. I would like first to make some comment upon the two speeches we have heard from my two colleagues who have made their maiden speeches tonight. I refer firstly to the speech of  Senator Hamer,  my colleague from my own State of Victoria. What a distinguished speech that was. What a great opening it was for a career in the Senate. Of course  Senator Hamer  has already had some experience of Parliament but we see that we have gained the benefit of having heard the interesting views which he holds on the role of the Senate. We look forward to his further speeches in this area and others. These remarks apply likewise to  Senator Teague  from South Australia who provided us with an interesting insight to his views upon Liberalism and the Senate and his trenchant support for his own State and its interests. These two senators, as do other senators on the other side who have made their maiden speeches, show great promise of performance in this Senate. We will gain considerably from new senators on both sides who will be making their contributions from now on. 
We have just heard the conclusion of one of the most mournful speeches that I suppose it would be possible to hear in this Budget debate. But one can never be sure. We might even hear a more mournful one. It is interesting that  Senator 
Grimes at the height of absurdity talked about the Government's deliberate policy of creating unemployment. No one in the community in his right senses would believe that. That was just one of the things to which  Senator Grimes  referred and one of the things which I am afraid one can expect. 
He talked about social services provisions. I will also make some critical remarks but I hope constructively critical ones. When we listen to members of the Australian Labor Party speaking in this Budget debate, we must realise that they have put forward a curious document called the Hayden alternative budget. One would expect that the matters they criticise would attempt to be remedied by the policies proposed in that alternative Budget. But for the sake of the record let us remind ourselves that in that alternative budget suggestion the Labor Party has dropped the policy of free of income tax age pension. It makes no mention of restoring maternity allowances, indexing family allowances, indexing additional pensions for children or of increasing those pensions below the Henderson poverty line to the poverty line. If that Hayden alternative budget is to be of any use, then let it be a guide to form for us it should show what would be done in regard to the criticism the Opposition makes of the Budget. But these are not matters the Opposition would alter if it were in government. 
We now have a Budget before us in a year that is not altogether easy. We know that over last year there was a deficit substantially in excess of the original estimate. Of course that was a primarily because of a revenue shortfall. Fortunately there was a major reduction in inflation. That was the major achievement and emphasis of the previous Budgets. But we know that there was a persistence of high unemployment. I will speak more on that subject. Of course also there were exessively high real wages which have been a continuing cause of unemployment in Australia. Company profits have not increased sufficiently and there has been only modest real growth in economic activity. So there are problems which the Government must face and which it has faced up to in this Budget. 
It had set itself the task of achieving long term economic stability in Australia and it has been working hard at that effort in the three years it had been in office. It has determined in this Budget to reduce the deficit and to restrain spending. The general outlays increase of 7.7 per cent indicates that this is a policy to which the Government very much holds firmly. That is not a popular policy. We criticise reductions on individual items and we wish that some might not have been chosen for reduction. Nonetheless, we recognise that this is an area in which there must be considerable restraint by this Government. We recognise that the increase of 1  Vi  per cent in the income tax rate- a temporary increase- is one which is regrettable and one which runs contrary to what were the ambitions of this Government. It is one which we certainly note as being temporary, and we will certainly be very ready to draw the Government's attention to that fact. It is a temporary increase, and we hope that the need for it will soon pass away. 
In the Budget there are major decisions that are of great importance to this country such as the decisions in regard to health care financing which appear to be gaining very considerable support in the community and which appear to promise a reduction in the cost of health care but at the same time will provide substantial health cover for people in this very necessary area. We also note in regard to crude oil the very dramatic decision to raise the price to the import parity level. This was something that had to be done in order to recognise that, in this country, there is a limited supply of oil. Instead of using our oil recklessly, we should make proper use of it. 
The Budget raises important issues which I generally support and which I find in my own judgment are very necessary. At the same time there are criticisms which one would make. There is one area I particularly mention tonight because I feel that while one has an overall objective which is good perhaps more should be done in the area of unemployment. The unemployment level in this country is high and is dangerous from the point of view of the social and economic future of individuals. One recognises that the matter of unemployment is a matter of very great concern to the public. I refer to the results of the poll printed in the  Age  on 3 1 August which set out the very issues that the public feels are the most important. Unquestionably unemployment was regarded as the most important issue as far as the voters in Victoria were concerned. In the table which was published unemployment overall was shown to be the most important issue according to 48 per cent of the people surveyed. The nearest most important issue was investment at 1 8 per cent. This was followed by 'strikes' at 13 per cent, 'environment' at 7 per cent, 'public transport' at 4 per cent, crime ' at 3 per cent and 'drugs ' at 3 per cent. In other words, unemployment was far and away regarded as the most worrying issue. 
If you will be patient senator, I will get on to that subject. I was about to say that in my opinion the Budget needs to provide more than it has covered in this area. I have recognised that the overall intention of the Budget which is to reduce the rate of inflation to 5 per cent, will be tremendously important in a long term attack on unemployment, but I believe that we cannot wait for a long time and that people cannot be expected to accept long periods out of a job. I believe that there is probably a need for more expenditure, and I intend to speak on this subject. In the Budget itself training programs do get an important mention. It is pointed out that last year's expenditure on training programs increased by 56 per cent to $ 120m, and a further increase of 44 per cent to $ 173m is provided for this year. That of course is a useful and important development. One should take into account that in a country like Australia the retraining of people is proceeding at a low rate of, I think, 0.2 per cent compared with 2 per cent in Sweden. It is important to have increased expenditure in this area. It is important to acknowledge that as at June of this year more than 1 1 1,000 people were being trained under Commonwealth assisted training programs. That is important. In addition, the Special Youth Employment Training Program has been altered in the Budget to reduce the training period from six months to four months because the Government felt that the program was unduly advantaging younger age groups to the detriment of older age groups. 
In this area of employment and increasing the employment opportunities I suppose that the other important proposal of the Budget involving the manufacturing industry and consequently employment in particular, is the export incentive scheme which has been announced. The Budget provides a total of $5 8m by way of direct assistance to exporters. That is $27m more than last year. Likewise in the area of industrial research and development grants an amount of $24m is being provided this year, which is $10m more than last year. So in those areas one sees a considerable and useful attack on some areas of both training and employment but, as I said, I personally do not think that this goes far enough. I recognise that this is a view which the Liberal Premier of Victoria,  Mr Hamer,  holds, and a number of other persons have suggested that this requires attention. 
There are a number of views on the expenditure of money by the Government, the effect of increased public investment and what it might do to the economy. 
The Finance, Industries, Trade and Development Group in the Parliamentary Library has prepared for me a paper on investment. It puts the various arguments in this way: The crowding-out' view of public investment sees the government sector as a competitor with private enterprise redirecting resources from the private to the public sector through various mechanisms. The most obvious level of crowding-out' is the possibility that government will engage in productive activities which would otherwise be provided by the private sector so that public spending would simply supplant private investment. I think we recognise that would be undesirable if that is the effect of additional public investment at the present time. On the other hand, the opposing expansionary view of public investment covers arguments that call for public investment on the grounds that it will provide a buffer against the worst effects of unemployment during recession. This view argues that not only will unused resources be made productive but also the increased incomes and consumer demands resulting from this investment will produce secondary developments within the economy as the new and increased incomes are spent, making new investments in the private sector profitable. 
Those two views on public investment are held by different people. I happen to hold the view at this time that there is a need for some increase in public investment. 
The Government holds the first view at the moment, and I am arguing that there is a case not for any overall change in the Budget strategy but for some further public investment. I am arguing in favour of that. I believe that that argument should be further considered. I think this argument also has been adopted by  Sir William  McMahon who on 1 August this year pointed out that 75 per cent of usable manufacturing capacity is all that we are employing at the present time and therefore there is a large capacity that is not being used. My belief is that there are areas in which we could usefully encourage the economy at the present time, in a way in which we could, I think, obtain greater employment without at the same time affecting the Budget strategy on inflation or causing increased inflation. 
One area in which we spend a lot of money in this community or cause individuals to incur additional expenditure is in the area of tariffs. I do not expect that in this area I will get much support from honourable senators opposite because it seems to me that the present use of tariffs for the purpose of keeping jobs is not being very successful at all. In an article in the  National Times  of 1 9 August entitled ' The Tariff Bludgers ', Peter Robinson wrote: 
In 1972, when an international comparison of tariff levels was made within the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the average of Australian tariff rates was more than three times higher than the world average on all industrial products, and almost three times higher on manufactured products. 
These tariffs are really a form of tax on the community. Between 1971-72 and 1977-78 . . . the annual cost of the tariff structure to the Australian nation increased from $4.3 billion to $6 billion. That's about $400 for every man, woman and child in the country. If this kind of assistance had been handed out to industry in the form of subsidies (the way the farmers get their superphosphate bounty, for example), it would have increased the size of the Federal Budget for 1 977-78 by 20 per cent. 
He further said: 
The value of the tariff assistance which went to the textile and footwear industries in 1977-78 has been estimated at around $800m. 
Yet even that level of assistance is not preventing a general erosion of jobs in textiles and footwear. The remaining jobs are becoming more and more expensive to support. The IAC estimated in its report on Textiles, Clothing and Footwear that in 1975-76 the cost of preserving each job in the textile industry was $3,800 and in the footwear industry, $5,600. Some textile jobs were much more expensive. Tariff assistance to bed sheeting, for example, was put at $12,700 per employee and in bed linen it was a massive $20,000. 
The writer went on to refer to the motor industry. He pointed out that Canada employs 35,000 people in a protected industry, compared with the 44,000 people employed by Australia's top four manufacturers; but in Canada the value added is $1 billion, compared with $360m in Australia. I believe that we must face up to the fact that we are spending too much money and are increasing costs for the community to try to save jobs in some of these industries. I believe that there are other areas where this money could more effectively be devoted. Consideration ought to be given to directing attention to those areas over a period. 
One of the industries which I believe should have more attention at present is the housing industry, which is in a state of considerable depression. Only 600 government dwellings were approved in July, compared with 1,400 in June and 900 in July last year. The number of private dwellings approved in July was 8,500, compared with 8,900 in June and 9,800 in July of the previous year. I believe that an increase of expenditure ought to be undertaken in this area. In the Budget itself, as was pointed out subsequently by the Minister for Environment, Housing and 
Community Development, the honourable Ray Groom, some action was taken that might be thought to increase the amount of activity in the housing area. The decision to reduce the prescribed assets ratio of the savings banks by 5 per cent will enable the banks to increase lending for housing as the year progresses. But I believe from other information that this is not likely to add very considerably to housing activity. In the Budget there were some increases in homes savings grants and, of course, the major attack which the Government is making on inflation will, it is hoped, have the benefit of reductions in interest rates which will cause savings to anyone who wishes to borrow. 
I do not know that that is so. The view the Minister expressed is that the anti-inflationary stance of the Budget will again moderate the rate of inflation in housing costs during 1978-79, so increasing the ability of intending home buyers to purchase a home. He further said: 
A reduction in the interest rate of 0.5 per cent on a savings bank loan of $25,000 would reduce monthly payments by approximately $9. Over the full term of a 25 year loan the borrower would save about $2,600. 
That is the Minister's considered view in regard to the effect that the reduction of interest rates will have. I think that is helpful. Nonetheless, I believe that in this area some further attention must be given to increasing activity in an industry which is very labour intensive. Increased activity in home building could well have the effect of providing income and bringing into production capital items which are not at present being used. It would have flow-on effects in other parts of the industry. 
Housing is one example, but I believe that there are some further areas in which we could expect some improvement. To take the other side of the coin, the contractionary effect which recent Budgets have had on activity was referred to recently in the Annual Report on Australian Federalism by the Centre for Research on Federal Financial Relations. It stated: 
The severe contractionary impact of the Budget on the level of economic activity has been commented on in Chapter I of this Report. The cut-backs in capital expenditure on goods and services and in advances for purposes of capital spending are especially unfortunate, not only because such expenditures provide the most convenient means of bringing unemployed resources into production without inflationary consequences but also because there are so many urgent tasks which need to be performed in order to improve the level and equality of Australia 's economic and social infrastructure. 
Many of these tasks are known to honourable senators. Various States have made a number of demands for additional money. Many very exciting projects could be performed which are necessary for the development of this country. I shall refer briefly to some of the worthwhile capital projects that are awaiting finance. For example, the New South Wales Government has been seeking extra funds for road projects and to build a new Port Kembla coal loader. The Queensland Government is seeking additional funds for welfare housing. The South Australian Government is after finance for the Redcliff petrochemical project and the Western Australian Premier is seeking additional funds for various developments in the form of infrastructure projects. There are, of course, many other areas such as hospital development, community health facilities and urban public transport which will be known to honourable senators. 
In the desire to stimulate areas that are labour intensive recent requests have been made by the Honourable R. J. Hamer, the Premier of Victoria, for a national conference on unemployment. These requests have been met, although perhaps not to the degree he sought, but there certainly will be meetings of State and Federal representatives. He has pointed out, as was reported in the  Age  of 1 1 September, the great need for such a conference so that much more can be done in the employment area. I hope that we will avoid the depression mentality which we knew in the 1 930s. It took us so long to get out of it and back into good economic development. I hope that something more will be done and that the proposed conference will have this effect. 
I also want to say something briefly about social security.  Senator Grimes  has criticised this area; but, of course, there have been some really great developments. In the Budget this year there is an expenditure of $8,0 15m on social security, an increase of 7 per cent overall. This amount can be broken down into different areas. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a statement on the various areas of social security and welfare expenditure for 1975-76 compared with 1978-79. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Robertson)-  Has it been shown to the Minister? 

The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Perhaps,  Senator Missen,  you could continue your speech and seek leave to have it incorporated later. 
In this table there are shown very substantial increases in the overall expenditure on these various forms of assistance. Payments in respect of the age, invalid and widows pensions and the supporting parents benefit are up 11.5 percent this year to $4,643m. 
That is so, but that is only in respect of increases and not in respect of payments generally. Expenditure on the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service is up by 22 per cent to $ 18.3m, and expenditure under the Handicapped Persons Assistance Act is up by 37 per cent to $52m. These are important increases for us to recognise. I have received complaints in respect of some of these areas. I am concerned about the move to annual indexation because it is a very considerable worry for pensioners. Although pensions have been considerably improved and increased over the years, pensioners feel that they should have six-monthly indexation. Now it has gone out to a year. I regret this and hope that it is only a temporary change. 
-I regret it. 
I will not vote against the Budget because the majority of provisions in it are excellent, but I certainly express the hope that this will be only a temporary change. It seems to me unfortunate that pensioners will not receive pension increases as speedily as they have done in the past. At least they will be indexed but will not be indexed as frequently as I would like to see them. 
I have received complaints also about the funding of home care services for the aged but this is one area where there has been considerable growth in expenditure in recent years. Expenditure under the States Grants (Home Care) Act has increased from $9.9m in 1975-76 to an estimated $ 15.5m in 1977-78. Under this Act, services such as the provision of welfare officers for the aged, home care services and senior citizens centres, are funded. Criticism has come to me from people about the reduction in the funding formula from $2 for $1 to $1 for $1 announced at the time of the recent Premiers Conference. Nonetheless, we must recognise that expenditure under the Act will rise from $ 13.8m to $ 15.5m in this new year, an increase of 12 per cent. Overall about 79 additional welfare officer positions and an additional 22 home care services have been approved. In Victoria 41 additional welfare officer positions and 20 more home care services have been approved. 
Victoria has done very well. It has been very far advanced in creating these new positions. It may well be, and I would hope that the Victorian Government will join in meeting the additional amounts that are called for. As a result more positions will be made available and there will be a greater spread of the use of these facilities. I trust that the States will be able to meet their contributions to the cost. While many people were frightened at first that there would be a lessening of facilities and that some people might go into hospital instead of being kept at home, I believe that this will be found not to be so. 
I trust that Governments, State and Federal, will be able to contribute well towards this increase in facilities. Overall the Budget provides for a steady improvement. We must look for a great reduction in the rate of inflation. In general terms the Budget provides well for the future of this community. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Robertson)-  During the course of his speech,  Senator Missen  sought to incorporate a document in  Hansard.  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="078232197809135_52_5.jpg"></graphic>

-As the one who moved that the Senate take note of this report I want to thank  Senator Button,  who on a previous occasion spoke in this debate, and  Senator Tate,  who has made an excellent contribution to the discussion of this subject. I agree entirely with what  Senator Tate  said. The Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, which looked into this matter, found it to be of considerable importance and a subject in which there was a lot of public interest despite the fact, as  Senator Button  said on a previous occasion, that it appeared to be a very dull subject. It is a matter which raised a great deal of attention because there was, as evidence disclosed- and considerable evidence was called- a great deal of hardship, expense and wastage of public and private money because of the effect of Crown priority over the years. The Committee has come to a unanimous conclusion and the evidence was overwhelming, from the business community and professional persons who came before the Committee, liquidators and receivers who had had the problem of trying to work with the conflicting laws which exist in the areas of bankruptcy and company liquidation. They were unanimous in the view that there was a considerable need for reform. By a very considerable majority the witnesses were of the view that the abolition of Crown priority was called for in all areas, including the major area where there was some governmental or departmental resistance, namely the area of pay-as-you-earn tax- a substantial item. 
Our report shows that the cost of eliminating this priority is not great and that the saving of expense to the community is very considerable. In addition, the saving of hardship for individuals is a very important factor. I think it was  Senator Wriedt  who tonight asked whether State government rights are affected. They are not affected by this report but, as the Committee pointed out, the Commonwealth stands in a predominant position. Its claims over the deductions which it collects at the moment is the very substantial factor which often enables it to override State government claims so that they do not get met. If the Commonwealth were to come to the conclusion that this report and the recommendations in it should be accepted, it would be in a strong position to persuade the States that they also should abandon their rights because they would then stand in equal position with the Commonwealth and no doubt would gain from it. So the Commonwealth is in a powerful position to negotiate with the States if it were prepared to abandon its rights. 
I do not propose to say any more than what was said in tabling the statement and what the Committee said in the report. We know of the recent decision of the Government that there will be a fairly early statement by it on its attitude to the Senate Committee report. I believe that this will happen quite soon and that then will be the appropriate time to debate the whole matter at further length. The composition of the Committee has recently changed substantially. There are new and eminent recruits to its ranks such as  Senator Tate.  This report was the last function of the retiring Committee. We think that it has stood up fairly well to public discussion since then and that there will be a favourable response by the Commonwealth Government to the recommendations contained in it. With those remarks I close the debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I do not have quite the same confidence as  Senator Wheeldon.  I am only too sorry that we have not heard further from him in elucidation. The report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs which we are now discussing is not perhaps of the same substance as the one discussed previously tonight. This is a report which the Committee made of its investigation of various annual reports which are now referred to committees to consider. I think that the report deals with eight annual reports. Before the debate closes I just want to add, shall we say, a couple of up-to-date facts on one or two matters raised in the report. 
Perhaps the most substantial part of the Committee's discussion related to the annual report of the Law Reform Commission. The Committee expressed the same concern as the Law Reform Commission expressed in its report about the lack of staff and the effect it had on the Commission and on some of the other organisations with whose annual reports the Committee was concerned. The Commission expressed concern about staff ceilings and the restrictions which these ceilings imposed upon it. I think at the time of the Committee's investigation the Law Reform Commission had received some eight new references since it had commenced with a staff which had not had any increase. Of course there was an announcement in the Budget, and I regret to say that in the Estimates of the present Budget the expenditure for the Law Reform Commission only increases from $737,000 last financial year to $808,400, an increase of about nine per cent. I think there is a total salaries increase of just over $31,000, and this will enable the appointment of an additional part-time member. 
In the view of the Law Reform Commission there appeared to be a need for an extra five staff members. I regret that the work which the Commission can do is somewhat inhibited by the shortage of staff. If we proceed, and rightly proceed, to increase the workload which we give to the Commission- I think it is highly desirable that this be done- we have to provide it with the necessary staff. When formed the Commission had an approved establishment of 28 staff. The 1976-77 staff ceiling was set at nineteen. Of course the Commission does not have a legislative draftsman. It is very desirable that it have such a person on its staff. This is a matter which is of considerable importance. Very often the recommendations of the Law Reform Commission concern amendments of the law requiring consideration of the detail. Therefore the Commission feels the need for a legislative draftsman on its staff. As the report sets out, there are remuneration problems and problems when new commissioners are moved from one State to another and are not provided with the costs of moving. This is one particular area in the report with which we were concerned. 
In dealing with the annual report of the Administrative Review Council the Committee made a strong plea for greater simplicity in administrative appeals so that this was a matter in which the Administrative Review Council could be expected to make its considerable contribution. The recommendations of the Trade Commission dealt with the travel industry. I hope that honourable senators have looked at the recommendations. They raise problems which we hope have been brought to the attention of the travel industry and which we hope have since been corrected to some extent. 
The report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs deals with the routine work of the Senate committees, as do the reports of  Senator Jessop  's Committee and others. This is an important part of our work. Not only should annual reports of the various statutory bodies be lodged with the Parliament, but they should be scrutinised by the committees of the Parliament. I think this is appreciated by the organisations themselves, as we learn from correspondence from them. It is also part of the necessary scrutiny which the Senate does and which no one else will do if we do not do it. I do not make very much of this matter but simply say that we feel that in the report we have made some interesting suggestions which we hope honourable senators will have considered. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I would like to say a few words on this report. It is a holding report. The Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment points out that it is taking an interest in and is constantly scrutinising the problems involved. I am glad of that. I feel that some people are only too ready to dismiss the possibility that dangers may arise from the herbicides 2,4,5-T and 2,4-D. It seems to me that some State Ministers are even eager to anticipate reports and to come to the conclusion that there is nothing for the public to be worried about. I have taken a little interest in this matter. I have no real knowledge about it. Certain people in Victoria have been in touch with me and have given me information which makes me somewhat concerned as to whether problems are arising. I am certainly not satisfied, from the knowledge 1 have, that there is not reason for real fears. 
-Yes, I did supply the honourable senator with some documents. In fact I asked the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster),  who is at the table, a question on the matter back in May, when the discussion was becoming quite lively. 
Yes, the Minister gave me a lengthy answer, but I have to be so discourteous as to say that the answer left me less than satisfied. 
I do not want  Senator Wriedt  to intervene in this pleasant exchange which we are having on this side of the chamber. When I asked the question I was concerned about two areas. One related to the concern expressed in Victoria as to the reasons for the abnormal number of birth deformities in the Yarram area. Also, I had evidence given to me about a farmer living in the Kyabram district who had suffered considerable ill health for a long time following the spraying of properties in the neighbourhood. I know that medical experts were sent to his property to ascertain whether his illness could be due in any way to the effect of these herbicide sprays. Nothing has been proved, but it seems to me that what is important is that we should not regard the use of the herbicides as satisfactory because a close association has not been proved. The fact is that we ought to be overcautious, if necessary, about these matters. 
At the time I was put in possession of materials which related to an action in the United States in respect of which Judge Skopil had made an order restraining the use of one of the two herbicides in the State forests of Oregon. As a result of that decision that herbicide was no longer used in 19 forests in Oregon and Washington. The answer I received from the Minister pointed out that the reason for the judge 's decision was that an environmental impact statement had not been presented to the satisfaction of the court. That is true. The reason why such a statement was not made was that it was not ascertained that damage was not being done to crops and to people because of the use of the herbicide on the outskirts of the various forests. Since that time I have remained somewhat unconvinced by what appears to be a dismissal of the dangers associated with these two herbicides. It may well be that nothing is wrong. I recognise that both herbicides are regarded as important to the agricultural community and that they are certainly of considerable value in the removal of insects and other problems. At the same time it seems to me that more than adequate investigation should be carried out. 
I welcome, therefore, the fact that this Committee is keeping the matter under review. I hope that, even though we may have some dismissal of the importance of these two dangers by a number of State investigations, we will recognise that other people vehemently maintain that dangers are associated with the products. Therefore, there should be no slackening in the investigation being done by scientific experts throughout the country. We always have at the back of our minds the fact that there was no understanding of thalidomide, and other things of that nature, for some considerable time. Of course one could always show by logical reasoning that there was no proof of danger. Too often we discover rather too late in the event that there is a great deal of danger associated with some products. 
I am sure there are. As  Senator Jessop  says, there are hazards associated with all pesticides. Of course there are possibilities of over-use or concentration of them. Those are certainly problems which, quite independently of what I have said already, should be investigated. Every possible method should be used to ensure that people are not over-using them and are not confused by reason of language. Those are additional issues to which I am not particularly referring but I do not in any way say that they are not of equal importance. I believe that we should look at all the evidence. We should not accept too readily what is perhaps the desire of people to give a clean bill of health to these instruments. I hope that this Committee will continue to keep an open mind on the subject, will look at the material that comes from here and abroad and will continue its investigations into this subject. For those reasons I commend the report of the investigation the Committee has made. 
-in reply-  Mr Deputy President,  I perhaps might close the debate which has not exactly flourished this evening. This report was debated somewhat on 8 June on a motion that the Senate take note of the report which is the fifth special report of the Joint Committee on Publications. I would not like to see the question put tonight without a reminder of the significance of this report. I hope that we may hear of something that is being done about it. It relates fundamentally to whether the laws which we pass, which are issued by the Government by way of regulation and which are not printed are actually to be brought before the notice of the public. It relates to whether the people will have an opportunity of knowing their laws and being able to read them. The situation which the Joint Committee on Publications investigated at the close of the last session was one we felt was alarming and which we felt ought to be brought carefully to the notice of the Parliament. I propose to read the summary of findings which we made on fact and which I believe require urgent attention by the Government. We took evidence and had submissions placed before us. The Committee found the following facts in its view and reported them in this interim report: 
That the present availability of readable up-dated legislation namely, Acts, Statutory Rules and Territorial Ordinances and Regulations, as amended, is in a most unsatisfactory state. This is demonstrated by the following examples- Very few pamphlet reprints of Acts and Statutory Rules, as amended, have been produced since 1973. 
The latest issue of the Annual Acts volumes relates to 1974. 
I can now update that because we now have the volume for 1975. But we do not yet have the volumes for 1976 or 1977. The summary continues: 
The last issue of consolidated volumes of Statutory Rules covers the period 1 90 1 - 1 956. 
The latest issue of annual volumes of Statutory Rules relates to 1972. 
The latest volumes of consolidated laws of Norfolk Island cover the period 1914-1 964. 
One can see the very considerable periods that have elapsed since many of those volumes have been reproduced. The report continued: 
The Committee concludes that it is almost impossible for the interested citizen to keep abreast of legislative developments . . . 
That the situation with regard to the general inavailability of Commonwealth legislative publications can no longer be tolerated and the Committee believes that unless remedial action is taken immediately, it will further deteriorate . . . 
That while the Attorney-General's Department has a legislative publishing program aimed at producing consolidated volumes of laws of the Australian Capital Territory, consolidated volumes of Statutory Rules and some annual volumes of Acts and Statutory Rules in the near future, - 
That is its intention-   . . the optimism suggested by the Department's publishing program is not shared by the Committee. This conclusion is supported by the fact that since consolidated Acts volumes 1901-1973 were issued in 1974-75, only the 1974 annual Acts volume has been released. I have mentioned that the volume for 1975 recently arrived. The report continues: 
This volume - 
That is, the 1974 volume- 
. was made available this month, - 
That was in June- 
. some six months after the expected date of release announced by the Attorney-General in October 1977 . . . 
That there has been a lack of planning for production of readable legislation in the past, and that there is evidence to suggest a lack of future planning for production. This is indicated by the fact that the period covered by consolidated volumes is inconsistent and random and would appear to be selected on a production convenience basis rather than for a consistent, and, therefore, a planned period, e.g., consolidated Statutory Rules volumes 1901-1956 and proposed consolidation 1901-1979 . . . 
That few, if any, investigations designed to discover alternative processing methods for legislative publications have been made by the Department either interstate or overseas . . . 
That although the Publications Branch of the Legislative Drafting Division of the Attorney-General's Department has an establishment of twenty-four officers, five positions are currently vacant. Of these, the positions of two senior officers have been vacant for some time. This has seriously affected the production of the Department's legislative publishing program . . . 
I will come back to this matter because the documents tabled with the recent Budget- the Budget Papers- show the present position. The findings continue: 
That the Committee is not convinced that an establishment of 24 officers cannot produce more publications than those which have emanated from the Branch over recent years. In order to ensure the adherence by the Department to the Committee's recommended publishing program, a continuing overview of its operations needs to be undertaken. 
That when approval has been sought from the Attorney-General's Department by the Australian Government Publishing Service to reprint legislation where stocks are low or exhausted, quite frequently a response has not been forthcoming from the Attorney-General 's Department and, as a result, further delays occur in the publication of updated legislation. 
These were the findings of fact by the Committee. I turn now to what appears in the Estimates for 1978-79 in regard to the Publications Branch of the Legislative Drafting Division of the Attorney-General 's Department. The expenditure in 1977-78 was $542,000. The estimate for 1978-79 was $650,000. But we must look at the explanations which are made. They state that although the amount provided for expenditure on this item in 1977-78 was $1,035,000, actual expenditure was only $542,464. In other words, little more than half the amount that was set aside was actually expended. When we take into account the situation that we have disclosed we see that obviously there is a considerable breakdown. The Department stated: 
Difficulties were encountered in meeting the planned program for the printing of legislation in 1 977-78. It is hoped that the situation will be remedied in the current year. 
We also fervently hope that this will be so. The Committee in its report not only made those findings but also made some 15 recommendations. They are not of great length but for the convenience of people reading  Hansard  I seek leave for them to be incorporated. They set out briefly the situation and the views which we feel should be carried into effect. 
Leave granted. 

 The recommendations read as follows- 

RECOMMENDATIONS 
The Committee makes the following recommendations: 
Recommended Publishing Programme 
That greater priority be attached to the reprinting in pamphlet form, of Acts, Statutory Rules and legislation of the Territories, as amended, particularly in cases where substantial amendments have been made. (Para. 16) 
That the next consolidated Acts volumes cover the period 1901-1980; and that thereafter they be published at 5-year intervals. (Para. 16) 
That following the publication of the consolidated volumes of Statutory Rules 1901-1979, the next consolidation published cover the period 1901-1985; and that thereafter they be published at 5-year intervals. (Para. 16) 
That following the publication of consolidated volumes of Australian Capital Territory Ordinances and Regulations 191 1-1977, the next consolidation published cover the period 191 1-1985: and that thereafter they be produced at 5-year intervals. (Para. 16) 
That consolidated volumes of the legislation of the Island Territories be published in like manner to 2, 3, and 4 above. (Para. 16) 
That as a general principle, consolidated volumes of legislation be made available within two years of the period to which they refer. (Para. 16) 
That all annual volumes required to be published be undertaken on a regular basis and be available within one year of the year to which they refer. (Para. 16) 
That up-dated indexes of all Commonwealth legislation be published on a regular basis and be available within one year of the period to which they refer. (Para. 16) 
That the responsibility for publishing the general reprints of Northern Territory Laws be transferred to the Northern Territory as soon as possible after the Territory has gained self-government. (Para. 16) 
Production Process 
That all necessary assistance be given to the Government Printer to ensure that, as soon as possible, all production stages of all Commonwealth legislation be undertaken by the computerised phototype-setting process. ( Para. 1 9 ) 
Preparation of Copy Material 
That the Public Service Board undertake a thorough investigation into the Publications Branch of the Legislative Drafting Division, Attorney-General's Department with a view to providing appropriate resources to the Branch which would enable the adherence to the Committee's recommended publishing timetable referred to in paragraph 1 6 of this Report. [Recommendations 1 to 9]. (Para. 2 1 ) 
That a task force of officers be established with the responsibility of removing the current legislative publishing backlog of the Publications Branch, Attorney-General 's Department. (Para. 21) 
That the investigation referred to in paragraph 21(a) of this Report [recommendation 1 1 , above] include appropriate areas of the Australian Government Publishing Service to ensure that copy is prepared for and produced by the Government Printer in the most expeditious manner. (Para. 22) 
Availability of Stock 
That whenever the Australian Government Publishing Service seeks authority from the Attorney-General's Department to reprint an Act, Statutory Rule or other legislative publication, the Attorney-General 's Department advise the Australian Government Publishing Service of its decision, without delay, with regard to the request. (Para. 24) 
A Continuing Review 
5. That within one year of the presentation of this Report to Parliament: 
The Attorney-General's Department provide the Committee with a report which- 
states the progress made in connection with its legislative publishing programme; 
makes comment on matters of its responsibility referred to in paragraph 27 of this Report; and 
makes comment on such other matters which the Department considers relevant. 
The Australian Government Publishing Service provide the Committee with a report which- 
states the progress made in connection with the programme of putting on-line the computerised production of all Commonwealth legislation; 
makes comment on matters of its responsibility referred to in paragraph 27 of this Report; and 
makes comment on such other matters which the Australian Government Publishing Service considers relevant. 
That the Public Service Board provide the Committee with a report on any review which it may have carried out in accordance with the recommendations contained in paragraphs 21 (a) and 22 of this Report. [Recommendations 1 1 and 13.] (Para. 26). 
-I thank the Senate. The major recommendation is that consolidated Acts volumes hereafter should be published at fiveyearly intervals. It was felt also that the publications of the various volumes of legislation should be made available within two years of any period to which they refer- in other words, while they are still useful. There was also a number of recommendations in regard to the way in which copy is prepared and the work which the Attorney-General's Department does and a continuing review was suggested. Of course there may be different views in respect to the length of time between the consolidation of statutes. Some might think a seven-year period rather than a five-year period would be preferable. It may be costly for people such as lawyers who have to get consolidations all the time for them to be published so frequently. That is a matter of detail. The important point is that there ought to be regular cycles. It should be known that there will be consolidations and that the publications will be brought up to date. It is obvious that everything cannot be done at the one time. But the various statutory rules, ACT laws, Acts and the laws of Norfolk Island should be consolidated in a regular program so that it is known that they will be published at set periods. 
In this debate I emphasise that we believe that we are in a serious situation. It is no good for us in this Parliament and elsewhere to pass laws if they are not known. It is not possible to be critical of the people who are expected to obey the law if they cannot find out what is the law. It is not sufficient merely to be a lawyer. To find out what is the ACT law one has to be a treasure trove seeker as well and search for the legislation and amendments over a considerable period. This is not a satisfactory situation. I know that it sounds as though I am being extremely critical of officers who are working hard and who I am sure are overworked in trying to operate the system. I know that new methods are being employed in the publication of the legislation. This has caused some of the delays which I hope will be eliminated in the near future. I know that there are mitigating circumstances in regard to these matters but this is a matter on which there ought to be serious consideration and a determination to rectify this poor situation at the earliest possible date. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) Did the then Treasurer refuse, on 22 September 1977, to make public the papers and reports prepared by his Department relating to the feasibility of proportional income tax proposals; if so, why. 
) Will the Treasurer reconsider that decision. 
3 ) How does the Treasurer reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, concerns the commemoration of the thirtieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the part that Australia will play in this important event. Can the Minister inform the Senate what activities have been planned to celebrate the anniversary in Australia and what effects will be taken to explain the content and importance of the Universal Declaration to the public at large? 
-We have just heard an extraordinary diatribe on the States Grants (Home Care) Amendment Bill 1978. We also heard an extraordinary piece of economic logic from  Senator Coleman.  We heard the most extraordinary way in which she has revamped- I think one could use that expression- economics tonight, the way in which she has confused the rate of inflation and the reduction in the price of items. Nobody suggests that the price of items has been reduced overall. Of course there has been continued inflation, and the fight on that is continuous. But at the same time there has been an enormous reduction in the rate of inflation.  Senator Coleman-  I think it is perhaps typical of her Party- asked: What benefit do you find from the reduction in the rate of inflation? If one asks a pensioner about this he will say what benefit there is. Surely  Senator Coleman  must know that the people on fairly fixed incomes, the people who do not have an opportunity to get extra income, are the people who have been the victims of inflation. They are the people who have gained most because the rate of inflation has been reduced. That must be above all the things that the Government can do for pensioners and other people on fixed incomes. To reduce the inflation rate is surely of tremendous importance. 
The Bill we are considering tonight of course is one of the Budget Bills. We have heard some extraordinary speeches about it. We heard  Senator Grimes  tonight- one might call his speech one of Grimes's fairy tales- talk about cost cutting. He said that this is apparently the reason why this provision which reduces from two-thirds to one-half the amount of Commonwealth subsidy is in this Bill. It is not a matter of cost cutting at all. In fact it is an extraordinary piece of cost cutting when one recognises that the amount provided for home care services in this Bill will rise from $9. 138m last year to $ 10.4m! That is an increase of 12 per cent. 
Of course it has to be spent and of course there are problems in regard to this Bill. T will not avoid them for one moment. 
I have had many representations on this Bill.  Senator Coleman  said that senators on the Government side somehow are frightened or have lost their guts, as I think she put it. She may recall that a few nights ago in my speech on the Budget I criticised this decision. I feel that it is a somewhat risky and unfortunate decision. If the States agree to the expenditure they will be called on to undertake, the decision may be all right. I criticised this reduction on 13 September. My comments are in  Hansard of  that date. I raise some criticism of it tonight. Let us bear in mind what was said in the second reading speech after this Bill was introduced. This is what was said: 
Provided that State governments act responsibly within the framework of the federalism policy, there is no reason to believe that there will be any reduction in the level of welfare officer and home care services. Indeed, it could be anticipated that the States will allot a high priority to these services, which make a contribution to maintaining people in their own homes. The main function of a welfare officer is to provide a link between aged persons living in their own homes and domiciliary and other supportive welfare services. 
The importance of maintaining these services is recognised. It is recognised that the States need to contribute. I think it has been pointed out already that the New South Wales Government, in its Budget brought down last week, provided an increased State contribution of 29 per cent for these services. That State has accepted this responsibility. One must recognise that the overall increase from last year to this year- it is in fact an increase- for home care services, senior citizen centres and welfare offices was from $ 13,805,000 to $ 1 5,500,000. That increase, as the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle  pointed out in an earlier statement, has allowed the possibility of increasing and spreading the extent to which these services will take place. A newspaper article reports the Minister as saying: 
In the current financial year $10.4m ($9.14m 1977-78) has been allocated in the Budget to subsidise home care services, such as housekeeping, home repairs and gardening to assist elderly people. This amount would enable the Commonwealth to extend funding to an additional 22 home care services (249 services are already being funded). 
Surely it is important that not just some municipalities and areas have the benefit of these services; there should be a widening of this provision. Furthermore, it is pointed out that the increased amount of subsidy for the salaries of welfare officers employed in connection with senior citizen centres will cater for an additional 80 welfare officers. Currently there are 1 12 approved welfare officer positions. In both areas there are expansions of the provisions. It is true that if the States do not match the grants a problem could occur. This area worries me. If the States do not match the grant we will have to look again at the situation. I believe that the States will recognise the substantial importance of this program. 
One would think, from listening to  Senator Grimes  and  Senator Coleman,  that they were the only people who received any representations on this matter. I have received many representations in Victoria. The decision was announced at the Premiers Conference well before the Budget. A real fear was held by many people, including Professor Henderson, that there was to be a reduction and that it could well lead to a situation where people who otherwise would be cared for at home would be forced into hospitals. I would be the first to admit that that is a horrible proposal. 
It will not be too late. One would know of the situation if the States did not contribute the additional amounts which this wider program would involve them in. The Liberal Party shows by its platform and policy that it is concerned with these matters. It needs to be concerned with the independence of people and the opportunity for them to keep their independence by living at home. To send them into hospitals and into other institutions will be more costly for the community. I do not think for one moment that that is in any way desirable; nor is it within the platform and policy of my own party. The platform and policy of my party stresses the greatest possible independence of the citizen and the provision of assistance in a dignified, unobtrusive and sympathetic manner rather than through impersonal bureaucratic agencies. In addition to that, the platform emphasises the need for increasing the opportunities for personal relationships in the course of providing aid in the community. From the letters that have been sent to me by many citizens in Victoria, the number of people who are engaged at the moment in providing services of this type, and the people who can be engaged in providing them, is unquestionably important. 
I have in my hand a letter from a council home helper. The lady has written a letter of many pages. She describes her week and the people she helps. She refers to the multitudinous types of service which she provides for people. She refers to the company, the assistance and the friendliness which she provides these people. Some are old. Some are lonely. Some need the extra strength and support which a person like this can give. She wrote to me because she feared that the subsidies would be reduced and that some of the work might not be done in the future. I would be equally concerned if I thought that that was to be so. I do not believe- I recognise that  Senator Guilfoyle  agrees- that this will come to pass. We must see whether the States will accept what I agree is an added burden. Will they join in the bigger program that is now contemplated under this scheme and will they contribute the amounts which will be needed? I therefore believe that the initial fears will not be justified. 
Some people immediately saw the decision as meaning a reduction in services. They heard the States say that they felt they could not contribute their extra share. We must wait and see. We know that some States already have undertaken to pick up the extra burden. I believe that the schemes which are in existence need to be extended into a wider field. The schemes should not cover just a few councils and a few persons. Therefore the fact that the present payment by the Commonwealth will now go into wider hands will improve the scheme in the ultimate. I have said before, and I say it again, that I believe that there is a danger if the States do not pick up this responsibility. Bearing that in mind, I believe that the Bill should be supported but the legislation must be watched to ensure that it does not lead to any reduction in the number of persons who are able to be protected and able to be kept in their own homes and able to enjoy the independence which they have had in the past. With that in mind, I still support the Bill. 
My question which is addressed to the Attorney-General concerns the means test applied by the Australian Legal Aid Office to those people applying for legal assistance. Is the Attorney-General aware that a person with a large gross income who has been imprudent enough to incur substantial financial commitments which reduce his disposable weekly income to below $40 can receive legal aid, whilst a person whose only income consists of a pension or small maintenance benefit is excluded from receiving legal aid? Is the Attorney-General concerned that this anomaly exists and is causing an inequitable allocation of the scarce funds available for legal aid? Will the Attorney-General investigate this matter with the aim of ensuring that the Australian Legal Aid Office is able to provide legal assistance to those most in need? 
-in reply- I want to say two things very briefly. In the first place I want to thank  Senator Lajovic  who was a member of the Senate committee from whose report I quoted extensively tonight. I appreciate the extra points that he brought into this debate. I would like also to thank  Senator McLaren  who, with his experience of the area from which he comes and his knowledge of the industry, put forward additional arguments. I am aware that in the middle of this year the Australian Agricultural Council asked the States whether they intended reducing the acreage of wine grapes. It seems most unfortunate that that is the direction in which we are going. Instead of building up a successful export industry we are considering retreat. I hope that this motion will be of help in encouraging a more positive look at the wine industry and further assistance to it to make it a more successful industry than it has been to date. I thank those honourable senators for their support and hope that the motion is carried. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That the Senate: 
1 ) Expresses its concern at the generally inefficient and ineffective nature of the marketing and promotion of Australian wine overseas and, in particular, notes- 
the failure of the Australian Wine Board to use its long-standing power to trade overseas as an agent for wine producers, to organise the effective penetration of new markets in the United States, Japan and countries in South East Asia, and to establish Government retail wine centres in cities other than London, despite the potential for such outlets in numerous other locations; and 
the failure of Australian wine producers to positively pursue the creation of new overseas markets and increased export trade, to take advantage of every opportunity on the international market, and to establish a sound reputation for Australian wines abroad. 
Urges the Government to take immediate action to alleviate this situation, and to ensure a more professional management of Australia's wine exports. 
This motion is somewhat critical of the present management of the Australian wine industry. By moving this motion I do not want to declare myself to have any expert knowledge in this field. I have taken an interest in this matter and have taken part in discussions with others who are more knowledgeable about the industry than I am. While I criticise in this motion and in this speech certain important aspects of the wine industry, at the same time I recognise that the industry has its heroes and its adventurers. It has developed many excellent wines. It is my concern that those wines are not appreciated or exploited to the extent that they ought to be. The wine industry therefore, along with other industries in this country, needs to see the result of a more positive push towards development of an export market. 
I became particularly concerned with this matter when travelling with a number of Government members of this Parliament in the JanuaryFebruary period of this year. When travelling in Japan, China, Hong Kong and in similar places I discovered that the Australian wines that we know to be of good quality and which are supported in this country were rarely to be seen in those places. One wondered at this. I have come to conclusions which are put forward tonight. I hope they will lead to a debate. Whether people agree with me in the conclusions I draw is not the important aspect, but I think it is important that those who follow in this debate should contribute so that we will have in this country an improvement in the wine industry and add to the knowledge which the Australian people have of it. 
The wine industry is an important primary industry, and I suppose in some ways it is also a secondary industry. It is something which ought to be important in the provision of employment and some of the prosperity which ought to come to this country. 
What is the state of the industry in Australia at present? From the research which I have done I conclude that it is not in a happy state. Exports of wine and brandy form a very small proportion of our total exports, and this is decreasing in absolute terms. The situation was better; it is now worse, and I am afraid the proportion tends to be decreasing. Between the years 1939 and 1972 wine exports fell from 25 per cent of total wine production to 2.8 per cent and exports of brandy from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. I think that development is deplorable from the point of view of our overseas trade. 
If one looks in detail at the history of the contraction in export sales one finds that in 1974-75 wine exports fell by 2 1 per cent on the figures for the previous year. In the following year, 1975-76, exports fell by 6 per cent on the figures for the previous year and in 1 976-77 exports fell by 1 8 per cent on the figures for the previous year. That is an alarming continued decrease. The vast majority of Australian wine is now consumed locally. In 1972-73 95.4 per cent of our wine was sold in Australia. This figure had risen to 97.4 per cent by 1976-77. As I will show, there has not been a concentration on the necessity to export or on the production of a lot of wine for successful export in recent years. In addition to this fall in export receipts the industry also is suffering from internal problems. Local wine sales are experiencing only a moderate growth. In fact specific varieties, especially dry red wines, have suffered absolute falls in sales. I believe that in the last month there has been some little improvement in the sale of good red wines which Australia produces, but that might not be continued. That has been over the period of only a month. Overall we have had difficulties in selling excellent wines that are produced in Australia. 
I turn from the small proportion of exports by the industry to the position of the Australian Wine Board which is the body mostly responsible for the overall direction of this industry. The Australian Wine Board is constituted under the Wine Overseas Marketing Act 1929-73 and is responsible for the promotion of Australian produced wines and brandies in Australia and overseas. It regulates the export of Australian wine and brandy. This body is controlled by a board which consists of ten members appointed by the Governor-General, together with one Government member. The Board is financed through the Wine Grape Charges Act 1929-73 which imposes a levy on wine makers on grapes used in the manufacture of wine. This is at present $2.40 per tonne. The failure of the Board is a direct result, I believe, of the way in which the Board is constituted. At least that is part of the problem. The means by which it is funded I think also contributes to the ineffectiveness of its work. 
I turn to the actual membership of the Board and the criticism which has been made to me about it. The Board is dominated by wine makers at the expense - 
No, wine makers- the producers of wine- at the expense of the grape growers. Substantially it is the producers of wine who have the controlling interest on the Board. The net result of this, it has been put to me, is that more emphasis is placed on the short term receipts from wine sales than on the medium to long term aspects of planning for the future. There is less concentration on the development of extra production and the sale overseas of" more wine. This point is made not just by me but also was made strongly in the 1977 report of the Senate Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce. That report is entitled 'Tax and the wine and grape industries'. That investigation was completed in August of 1977. On page 112 the report of the Committee states: 
Between April and June 1974 PA Management Consultants Pty Ltd undertook a survey of members of the then Federal Wine and Brandy Producers ' Council of Australia- now known as the Australian Wine and Brandy Producers' Association Incorporated to determine their views on a wideranging series of issues which were of interest to the industry. 
In summary the study found widespread dissatisfaction with the way in which industry matters were being handled. At the same time, there was a widespread acceptance of the need for positive co-ordination and improved industry effectiveness. The views of industry members were that they were not effectively represented on the Wine Board and they also believed that the Board had not performed satisfactorily. Industry members saw the Federal Council as having more drive, initiative and potential and therefore perceived it to be more effective. 
Therefore, the Senate Committee, after speaking to the people who were so concerned with the industry, came to that conclusion. The Committee said that the Board was not willing to participate strongly in any venture that does not show short term revenue potential. The Board does, as we know, launch some promotional campaigns but these are far too small to have a lasting effect. Overseas markets are looked upon by the Wine Board as risky and therefore are given a very low priority. 
It think this fact is illustrated by looking at the total expenditure by the Board on the promotion of wine overseas. The expenditure has not been substantial nor has it risen in line with inflation in this country. The figures are: In 1972-73, $133,899; in 1973-74, $175,929; in 1974-75, $187,677; in 1975-76, $201,691; and in 1976-77, $183,485. If we take the figure overall I suppose that it shows a little increase. Obviously it is a small figure and is not one that shows very much growth. When one considers that that amount of expenditure covers the world-wide promotion I suggest that it is really just a drop in the bucket. It is true that the Australian Trade Commissioner Service offers some extra assistance to the wine industry but this is not really of a specialised nature and also it is too limited by the expenditure constraints which such government organisations have imposed on them at this time. 
The Senate Committee in dealing with this matter recommended that the Wine Board should be reconstituted to overcome its inbuilt problems. It proposed that an Australian wine and grape corporation be established as a statutory authority. This would bring together the currently separate Australian Wine Board, the Australian Wine and Brandy Producers Association Inc. and the Federal Grape Growers Council of Australia. The first recommendation that appears on page 1 14 of the report of the Senate Committee which was headed by  Senator Sheil,  in the section dealing with the conclusions, was that the Australian Wine Board, the Australian Wine and Brandy Producers Association Inc. and the Federal Grape Growers Council of Australia should combine to form an Australian wine and grape corporation which would be elected by industry members and be completely independent of the Government. The recommendations went on to speak about the financing of the corporation, the type of promotion of the industry and its responsibility for research into other aspects. I suggest that the Committee report deserves close consideration in dealing with what seems to be a very important aspect of the present weakness of this industry. 
I believe that the new corporation would need to place strong emphasis on export promotion and would therefore have to place itself above the short term interests of some of its members. Government support and indirect guidance would be of assistance here although the Government would not be represented on the corporation. The Senate Committee recommended that the new corporation should undertake detailed market forecasting. Because of the time involved in putting wine on the market, I suggest that that surely is an obvious necessity. 
Let us move to the funding of the industry itself. I think that this is a substantially important matter. Even though the Senate Committee made recommendations in this area it has been criticised by some people in the industry because it was felt that the government imposts on this industry have been one of the reasons that it has had a somewhat poorer performance in recent years. The Board is funded by a levy on wine makers. It has become apparent that this levy could not be steeply increased without harming the industry. It is also apparent that the Board or the new corporation, if there is to be one, would need some funds if it were to execute an effective and prolonged promotion of our wine in international markets. The answer seems to be for direct government involvement- perhaps a dollar for dollar subsidy- in the Board's promotional activities. Alternatively, the Government could direct more of its trade commissioners to work in the field of wine promotion. I believe that some good work has been done in this area. I believe that  Senator Lajovic  has had some experience in the work of the Trade Commissioner Service which I believe has a lot of capacity although perhaps it is not specialised in this area alone. For any increase in expenditure in this field to be justified it must be shown that higher export returns are possible, and that of course does not mean entering markets which have no future. It may mean, for example, that there is not a great future in the export market in the United Kingdom. 
-I thank  Senator Mulvihill.  I think his remarks are very much to the point. Export markets in England and Europe are not very promising at all, but in Asia and in the Pacific region- in the countries that are nearer to us- I think that there is a great deal of potential. I shall refer to this potential now. 
I turn therefore to the export market. Is there in fact an opportunity there? There are differing views in the industry on this matter. I have been informed that the main difficulty in exporting Australian wine is that generally speaking, because of the high price structure of the industry here, it cannot compete in price with overseas wines. That factor is important. Other difficulties mentioned were the heavy promotion of other wine exporting countries and the restrictive attitude taken in some countries towards wine imports. I am told that now we are a net importer of wine. Though we produce a lot of wine, on a net basis we import wine. That seems an extraordinary thing in Australia which is so capable of producing wine. I consider that in spite of these difficulties, Australian wine exports could be increased. 
The general increase in wine sales in Australia has resulted in makers here not placing sufficient emphasis on export. They have been accustomed to selling in this country and exports have tended to be the optional extra- the surplus to be got rid of. It is not something for which plans and preparations are made. Nevertheless, if the market here were to fall, export sales could prove a useful outlet for production as well as earning foreign currency. The establishment of a market may well pay dividends in the future. This point is made by the Senate Committee on page 1 8 of its report as follows: 
In our opinion the quality of Australian wine is sufficiently high to enable more of it to be exported. It seems to us that the USA offers the most potential for increased exports. One way to increase exports there might bc to conduct a medium term promotion campaign (e.g. 3 years) in a specific area (e.g. California) stressing the quality of wine coming from Australia (rather than from a specific company). We consider that this project warrants the use  of a  limited amount of funds from the industry. 
The comments of the Senate Committee were made after a detailed study and wide consultation. It was concluded that the overseas markets could be penetrated and that such a course was desirable for all concerned. 
Let me turn to another source of discussion and to an authorative view that has been given by the South Australian Department of Agriculture in its report called 'Rural Market Outlook'. It is true that this is dated August 1975, but I do not think very much has changed since that period. At page 8 of the report the following is stated: 
The US per capita consumption rate was slightly higher than Canada, at 6.1 litres per head in 1972. This information combined with the 10-fold greater population should indicate that opportunities do exist in the US for a concerted marketing effort in the field of table wines. 
The report, commenting on Australia's wine future in the United States, says:   it must be re-emphasised, that the US markets are large and quite accessible to enterprising Australian winemakers. Canada has proved to be a successful wine market and there is no reason why this situation cannot be repeated in the US. Australian wine has proved to be acceptable in many areas of the world, but as yet its penetration has been small, with the exception of the traditional British Commonwealth markets. With such an expanding market, the careful promotion of Australian wines, in particular areas of the United States, could be very successful and highly profitable. 
I believe that one must realise that in the United States there is a somewhat sophisticated market and, therefore, there is a demand for different types of goods. This is reinforced by statements made in the same report by  Mr G.  D. McLean as to the great scope that is available. He stated: 
Between 1969 and 1973 apparent consumption of table wines in the US more than doubled (from 45 per cent to 64 per cent of the total wine consumption) while consumption of all other wine types, as a percentage of total wine consumption, fell. Between 1972 and 1973, although consumption of all table wines rose by 8.7 per cent, consumption of imported table wines rose by 2 1. 1 per cent to stand at 23 per cent of the total US table wine consumption. This factor alone shows that great scope does exist for any company wishing to break into the US table wine market. 
In other words, it shows that there is a great desire and demand for imported wines in the United States. I think that we should exploit this demand. From my inquiries I have found that many members of the industry seem to agree with these comments relating to the possibilities in the United States. I do not emphasise just the potential markets in the United States and Canada because it seems to me that, with our vastly growing tourist trade with countries on the other side of the Pacific, such as Japan, China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, and so forth, there are great opportunities for Australia if our wine industry can get out and sell and if it can get more encouragement from the Government to do so. 
Some companies have achieved very considerable success in these areas. I believe that it is only fair to recognise that this is so. I know that one such company is Thomas Hardy and Sons. In an article by Tom Connors which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  of 4 July, the following was stated: 
Last year the Federal Department of Overseas Trade and National Resources granted the South Australian winemaker Thomas Hardy and Sons one of its prized export awards. 
This followed Hardy 's 20 per cent boost in export earnings in 1976-77 and consistent and significant improvement over the past 10 years. 
It goes on to mention Tyrell's vineyards in the Hunter Valley, which also showed a considerable increase in their sales overseas. Obviously some companies are exploiting this opportunity and are rising to this challenge. 
Yes, they have established beachheads. If they are successful no doubt others will follow, but obviously there is a need for something to push them along. It is true that other companies do not sell overseas or have found it difficult to do so. I think it is only fair that I should say that as a result of giving notice of my intention to move this motion which we are debating tonight in the Senate I have received a letter from  Mr K.  S. Christie-Ling, the General Manager of the Australian Wine Board, which provides information on a number of issues and on the difficulties which are experienced. I think that in all fairness this letter ought to be included in the record of the Senate debate for the benefit of people who will read this speech so that they will be able to understand the way that the Australian Wine Board looks at this matter.  Mr Deputy President,  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  this letter dated 22 June 1978 from the Australian Wine Board. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

AUSTRALIAN WINE BOARD 
SS Hindmarsh Square Adelaide, South Australia S000 Telex AA82780 Cables AUSTRALIA WINE Telephone (08) 223 3594 In Reply Please Quote 265 22 June 1978 

 Senator A. J. Missen Commonwealth Parliament Offices 400 Flinders Street Melbourne, Vic 3000 
Dear  Senator Missen, 
The notice of motion which you gave The Senate on 12 April 1978 concerning the marketing and promotion of Australian wine overseas was discussed at the most recent meeting of the Australian Wine Board when it was decided to provide you with background information regarding the Board 's activities in this area. 
The general powers and functions of the Board as set down in Sections 16 and 17 of the 'Wine Overseas Marketing Act 1929' are comprehensive but should be viewed in the context of the Board's responsibilities both in Australia and overseas. It is noteworthy that these powers and functions were amended in 1953-54 to confirm the Board's authority to undertake Australian promotional activity. 
Enclosed are copies of the annual reports for the Board for the five year period 1972-73 to 1976-77 which detail the activities and finances of the Board and important industry statistics. The following points covered in these reports are considered noteworthy in relation to the activities of the Board: 
that the levy for the 1976 vintage was maintained at $2.40 per tonne of fresh grapes used for winemaking purposes, the same level as for the three previous years; this level has also been maintained for the subsequent 1977 and 1978 vintages, 
that the maximum level for the levy is set by the Wine Grapes Charges Act 1929' at $2.50 per tonne, 
that the overall level of Board activity is therefore limited in accordance with the size of each particular vintage, 
d ) that the Board 's financial responsibilities in Australia have increased in relation to funding of research and promotional activities, 
that the industry requirement for additional promotional activity in Australia is related to the large proportion of the total sales of Australian wine being sold in Australia; this proportion has risen from 95.4 per cent in 1 972-73 to 97.4 per cent in 1976-77, (0 that in 1972-73 25.3 percent of total expenditure was allocated for promotion of wine overseas while in 1976-77 the figure was 17.5 percent, viz., a relatively high level of export promotion has been maintained while sales of Australia wine overseas represented a small proportion of total sales of Australian wine. 
Australian wine producers have traditionally undertaken the export of their own wines. The Board has assisted through institutional promotion or activity as required and where finances permitted. 
The annual reports referred to above detail the Board's promotional activity during that five year period. In particular, the Australian Wine Centre in London has effected a continuing program of promotion of Australian wines which has seen a steady increase in the sales of bottled wine in the United Kingdom. Exports of bulk wines to this area have been severely curtailed since the United Kingdom entered the European Economic Community. This situation has also made it extremely difficult for Australia to export bottled wines to the United Kingdom. However, a sizeable amount of capital investment and promotional expenditure is involved in maintaining the Centre and it would not easily be possible to duplicate the Centre's facilities in other markets. 
In Australia's largest overseas market, Canada, the Board has, for a number of years, encouraged the promotional activities of Australian exporters by way of brand advertising support and, in recent years, has employed a full-time Wine Advisory Officer to promote Australian wines in this market. The marketing arrangements in Canada whereby provincial liquor commissions have monopoly control has assisted larger exporting countries resulting in loss of market share for Australian exporters. 
In 1973-74 and 1974-75 the Board allocated a high proportion of its funds for overseas promotion to establish Australian wine in the promising USA market through the appointment of a full-time consultant. 
This move coincided, unfortunately, with a concerted move by traditional European wine producers to capture the USA market and to clear high levels of stocks and also with favourable Californian vintages. These factors discouraged Australian exporters interested in breaking into the USA market at that time. 
In other areas where Australian wines are marketed the Board has allocated limited financial sums in support of institutional promotional activity, often with considerable assistance from the Australian Trade Commissioner Service, which has been most co-operative. 
In general terms Australian exporters have found it difficult to compete in many overseas markets because of the level of inflation being reflected in the costs of their wines at the same time as the major competing countries in overseas markets, such as some Eastern European countries and member countries of the European Economic Community, were respectively seeking hard foreign currency or prepared to subsidise the export of domestic over-production. In the latter case, we refer particularly to the so-called 'wine lake' existing within the European Economic Community and enclose copies of some pertinent articles which have appeared recently in the international trade press on this subject. In addition, many wine importing countries are tightening regulations covering such aspects as labelling, description and content of imported wines. Such moves have worked against the interests of smaller exporting countries such as Australia compared with the larger European competitors in that by comparison these additional costs are incurred for smaller sales. 
In the foregoing context, it is axiomatic that the larger competing exporters of wine to markets in which Australia is interested will generate greater sales revenue from which to finance more comprehensive and sophisticated promotional campaigns which have effectively guaranteed those countries increasing market shares at the expense of such countries as Australia. 
We sincerely hope that the foregoing information will assist in clarifying the Board's position in the marketing and promotion of Australian wine oveseas; however, should you require additional information, the writer would be pleased to assist. 
Yours sincerely, K. S.CHRISTIE-LING General Manager 
Enclosures 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  The letter mentions the difficulties of promotion that arise in a number of countries and the fact that the Wine Board allocated a high proportion of its funds for overseas promotion in order to establish Australian wine in the promising United States market through the appointment of a full time consultant. That was in 1973-74 and 1974-75. But I am told that that action has not been followed up and that since then insufficient effort has been made to endeavour to keep that going. It seems that in developing the export of wine it is terribly important that the wine becomes known and appreciated by the people who consume it in a country. That means persisting for a number of years. The letter which I incorporated also mentioned the difficulties involved in competing in overseas countries because of the rate of inflation being reflected in the costs of wines. One hopes that as our rate of inflation lowers we will be in a better position to deal with that problem. 
What are the ideas for the future? Whilst criticising the present lack of  expoit  orientation in  the industry, we must look at ways in which we can improve the situation. I have spoken of reorganisation, of the need for an export oriented authority that is representative of the whole industry. I speak also of the need for better labelling of products. A number of writers have pointed out that it is necessary for consumers to get to know and to appreciate Australian wines. An Australian export label might well be developed. A specific recommendation appearing at page 22 of the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce is to the effect that the industry should develop an Australian export label and should make that label known. In addition, I think it is important that the real quality of Australian wine should become recognised throughout the world. 
I have a letter dated 4 May 1978 from  Dr W.  S. Benwell who is a noted authority on wine in this country. Among other things, when speaking of the promotion of the consumption of Australian wine in other countries, he stated: 
There is not, nor has there ever been, an Australian wine for all palates. This was a prime misconception during attempts to move our wine into Europe in the early 20th century. The consequence was a very bad reputation for our wine which has, still, not yet been buried. 
Therefore I would advise that some person, or persons, well versed in the nature and variety of Australian wines, should be commissioned to visit those countries where our wine could reasonably be expected to have appeal, to clearly identify the local tastes, and to relate their findings to our local products. 
We must greatly improve the commercial presentation of our wine article. I refer to bottling, sealing, labelling design and typography. I have no fears for the acceptance of our wine in other countries, provided we can cultivate the marketing skills accompanied by a certain finesse in the penetration of each market with an appropriate style of wine. We have much to learn from the people from whom we import wine. 
I think that the area to which  Dr Benwell  refers so well is an important area. 
In addition to that, we have only one wine selling centre overseas and that is in London. It is probably desirable that we have a wine selling centre there because it is a certain market. But it has been pointed out by other people who have spoken to me that there are other places that we certainly should consider as possible locations for wine selling centres. I believe that in 1 973 the Australian Wine Board spent $100,000 on a marketing campaign in the United States but, as I said, it failed to follow up on the exercise. Some people have said that perhaps Japan offers the best long term prospect as a market for our wine. It has been suggested to me that whilst the London wine centre is a worthwhile establishment, it is more in the nature of a wine embassy than a marketing centre. More profitable centres could, and should, be established in New York, San Francisco, Chicago and Los Angeles. These could work alongside other trade houses. Others who have written to me about this matter have spoken of the fact that in their opinion our bulk wines are really better than many of the same type in Germany, France and Italy and that we ought to be able to sell them far better in those places. Another person who wrote to me said that the London wine centre is very badly positioned, being situated in Soho, which is an area that he described as lacking any real prestige. I do not know whether I agree with that. It is possible that it does not have a wine prestige. 
I agree that it is a very interesting area. He pointed out that the German trade centre is located in Knightsbridge, which he described as a much better area. The London centre is a worthwhile one, but others should be established. The Wine Board discussed the idea but shelved it due to the cost involved. I have not given the names of these people but they are people who are well known in the industry and whose ideas I feel are worth considering. 
One other suggestion which was made to me and which I pass on is the idea of having a label in the nature of a name like 'Australis' by which Australia's wines could be made known overseas. One writer says that he especially favoured the idea of placing quality approval stamps on export wines as well as a reference to the authenticity and source of the wine. All these ideas would add to the image of Australian wine. People may not necessarily remember a name like Hardy's or that of any of the other producers here but they may remember a name which is common to Australian export wines. Apparently a similar concept has been used with great success by the South African wine industry. 
I express the view that there is a great deal to be learnt from people in the industry and that there is a great need for government support generally for this industry, which ought to be one of the successful industries of this country. 
In conclusion, I refer to a speech by a Minister who I think has excellent knowledge of this area, that is, the Honourable Ian Macphee. In a speech that he made in Melbourne on 29 March of this year he had this to say about the possibility of an export market for wine: 
Export markets, therefore, must be sought, as Mike  Muschamp  observed in his recent book  Wine and Winemakers of Australia,  'Perhaps the worst enemies of Australian wines were the exporters themselves, or the UK importing houses'. We are unlikely to be dealing with many 
UK importing houses in future. Our export markets have long since spanned the globe and with more effort these markets can be greatly developed- especially in Asia and the Pacific (including Canada). 
He went on to say: 
While, by the early 1970s, we were exporting wine to more than 80 countries, the annual quantity exported was only half that which had been exported to the UK alone in the 1930s. It has been argued that without our sweet wine exports in the 1 930s we might not have retained a wine industry at all. Is it reasonable now to suggest that the future of the industry in its current form might rest a great deal on its capacity to export far greater volumes of the balanced range of quality wines which are now exported? Producers have, understandably, concentrated on the home market while that was growing so rapidly. Surely they must now turn their attention to export market development. If they do not, some heavy investments in the industry may be in jeopardy. 
He continued: 
Australian wines are competitive in both price and quality and I am sure that a vigorous export policy by our more imaginative companies will ease our overproduction problem, increase the economies of scale of the successful companies and justify the installation of further expensive capital equipment to improve their productivity and make them more competitive still. 
I welcome the great support of the Honourable Ian Macphee who, notably, is the Minister for Productivity. He recognises the value of showing interest in this area. If we do not make a success of the particular industries for which we have been noted in the past we are not going to be able to hold our own in the competitive field in which we find ourselves in the south east area of Asia. If all this motion does is encourage interest in the industry and bring to the Government and to members of this Senate greater concern for the development of this great industry in Australia it will have served some purpose. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is the motion seconded? 
I present the following petition from 108 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That Radio 3CR Melbourne, be made to adhere to the required standards of broadcasting, as laid down for all other radio stations. 
The petitioners request that the Federal Government and Broadcasting Tribunal should enforce the required standard of broadcasting as laid down for all other stations, on community Radio 3CR call on Federal Government to legislate against incitement to racial hatred and violence. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 3 citizens of Australia: 
The Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the Victorian Federation of State School Parents' Clubs respectfully showeth: 
That as citizens of Victoria and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our school be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1 979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for: 
Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of 5 per cent in real terms on base level programs for 1979. 
Restoration of the $8m cut from the Capital Grants for Government Schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The Acting Clerk- Petitions have been lodged for presentation as follows: 
Radio Station 3CR, Melbourne 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled, the petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That radio 3CR Melbourne, be made to adhere to the required standards of broadcasting, as laid down for all other radio stations. 
The petitioners request that the federal government and broadcasting tribunal should enforce the required standard of broadcasting as laid down for all other stations, on community radio 3CR call on federal government to legislate against incitement to racial hatred and violence. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray.  by  Senator Button. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the article which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  newspaper of 12 September 1978 alleging that the Indonesian Government had refused  Mr Adnan  Buyung Nasution an exit visa to come to Australia for the International Bar Association conference. Can the Minister confirm that  Mr Nasution,  who holds the International Legal Aid Association's Award of Merit, was in fact refused an exit visa? Was the conference thereby debarred from hearing a paper from this foremost Indonesian defender of civil liberties? If so, did the Minister on behalf of the Commonwealth Government protest to the Indonesian authorities about this unfortunate ban? Will the Minister make representations to the Indonesian Government to ensure that  Mr 
Nasution 's right of free movement under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is safeguarded? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When will the Attorney-General table, and make available to the public, the documents presented to the Fifth International Trade Law Seminar held in Canberra at the Academy of Social Sciences on 15 July 1978, and, in particular, the paper by Professor K.. W. Ryan on the international application of United States anti-trust legislation. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. I refer to the Minister's statement on compulsory membership of student organisations, which was made in the Senate on 1 June 1978 and which said in part: 
There is no doubt that funds subscribed by students as a condition of enrolment have been used for purposes not related to their interests as students. 
Is the Minister aware that certain tertiary student organisations and unions in Australia are still making improper use of compulsorily collected fees? In particular, is the Minister aware that the Swinburne College of Technology Student Union, which is controlled by Maoist student groups, recently appropriated $500 of student money to the National Overseas Students Service and $200 to radio station 3CR, both payments being outside the criteria established by  Mr Justice  Kaye 's judgment in the recent Robert Clarke case? In view of this, will the Minister renew his efforts to curtail the misuse of compulsorily collected student fees in this country? 
I present the fourth report of the Standing Committee on Publications. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
Will the Commonwealth Government support, both financially and publicly, the International Symposium on Small Business, scheduled to be held in Melbourne in 1 980. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs or alternatively to the Minister representing the Minister for Construction. My question refers to the rules governing the use of grants to Aboriginals communities and organisations, and the enforcement of those rules. Is it true that rule 2.3.2 of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs governing the provision and use of grants states that 'tenders should be invited when the purchase price of an asset is expected to exceed $5,000'? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the Department of Construction on numerous occasions in New South Wales, South Australia, Western Australia and the Northern Territory failed to apply this rule, thus letting contracts without inviting public tenders? Is it also true that the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders Housing Panel warned the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs of this failure on five separate occasions in the past 12 months? Will the Minister ensure that, in the future, a closer scrutiny is kept over the allocation of funds by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, and that public tenders are called for all projects funded by the Department which are expected to cost more than $5,000? 
-I present the 62nd report from the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances relating to undertakings by Ministers to amend regulations and ordinances and Standing Order 36a. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Motion (by  Senator Missen)-  by leaveagreed to: 
That the amendment of Standing Order 36a proposed in the 62nd report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances be referred to the Standing Orders Committee. 
I seek leave to make a short statement relating to the report. 
Leave granted. 
This report deals with three basic items. The first has just been referred to the Standing Orders Committee and relates to a proposal which seems to show some inconsistency at the moment between our Standing Orders in relation to various matters which are subject to disallowance and which do not perhaps come within the Committee's guidelines. No doubt the Standing Orders Committee will look into that question and the amendment which we have put forward for its consideration. 
The second item, which is perhaps of lesser importance than the third, consists of three different matters which have come to the notice of the Committee. They relate to questions of disallowance and some inconsistent provisions which appear in the provisions for disallowance. Those matters are squarely within the present reference of the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs in relation to the delegation of parliamentary authority. 
The third aspect of this item is a question related to the regulation-making powers which seem to come very much within the province of the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, which is presently looking into a reference relating to the scrutiny of Bills before the Parliament. What the Committee has done is to raise these three questions and to propose in its report that the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs may, in examining its particular references, look at these items. So we are really putting them on record and asking that they be looked at. 
The third item, which is the main basis of this report, is the matter of greatest seriousness. It relates to undertakings which have been given by Ministers over a period of years to the Regulations and Ordinances Committee in relation to complaints about regulations and ordinances which we have considered to be inadequate, which have perhaps interfered with the liberty of the subject or, on one of the particular criteria of the Committee, have been found to be offending. As has been the custom for many years, it has very often been the situation that the Committee negotiates with the Minister and reaches some arrangement for an amendment to be made to a regulation. These undertakings have been given and, as a result of the giving of the undertakings, the Committee has then withdrawn the relevant motion from the Notice Paper. Very often it is a motion which has been put down in the Senate by way of a holding motion so that the right of the Senate to disallow is protected. Because it has received these undertakings from Ministers the Committee has then withdrawn its notice and consequently has lost all power to do anything about the matter. 
The problem is that a number of these undertakings have not been honoured to this date. In fairness one must say that many more undertakings other than those listed in this report have been given by Ministers over the years and that the great majority of those undertakings given by Ministers have been carried out, although some times not as promptly as the Committee would have wished. The report in fact details only those undertakings which have not been carried out at the present time. 
A perusal of the report will reveal that there are some seven undertakings in all which are. the subject of complaint by the Committee. Two of those undertakings relate to decisions made in 1975, one relates to 1976, two relate to 1977, and two are from May 1978. The problem is that we believe there is inordinate delay in carrying out the undertakings. 
It is not a matter of the Committee being difficult, because we have an obligation imposed on us by the Standing Orders to advise the Senate. The Senate has an obligation, as does the other House which does not exercise it in most events, to do something to protect the liberties of the subject in this regard. Once we have accepted undertakings and allowed the time to go past, we lose all power; the Senate no longer has the power. We feel that we are in a situation in which, by accepting undertakings, we are not able to carry out the proper obligation of the Senate in this area. This situation has been referred to in paragraph 5 of the report. I think I should read that paragraph because it sets out the situation fairly clearly. Paragraph 5 of the Committee 's report reads: 
AH of the regulations and ordinances referred to have provisions which are unsatisfactory in their effect on individual rights and liberties, and this has been recognised by various Ministers in their various undertakings. A highly unsatisfactory situation arises when undertakings by Ministers are not carried out promptly and expeditiously, in that provisions recognised to be defective are allowed to stand and the public effectively lack the protection which the disallowance procedure and the Committee are designed to give. Unless there  is an improvement in the situation in the future the Committee will be less ready to accept undertakings which cannot be carried out before the time for disallowance has passed. 
I stress that that is a very unsatisfactory position. It means that the regulations and ordinances are in operation in this country for years when in fact they ought to have been amended. We do not find it satisfactory that this delay lasts for years. We know that there are difficulties in respect of parliamentary draftsmanship and so on, but the delay is altogether excessive. When, I say, as we say in the report, that, in future, we will not be able to accept such undertakings with such readiness, it is not just a threat. It is a fact that, if we are to carry out our obligation in this Senate, we cannot allow this drift of the situation to continue. 
It is for these reasons that I make this statement and draw the attention of senators to the report so that it can be discussed. Therefore, I intend to ask the Senate to express an opinion on this matter of undertakings which are given by Ministers but which are not promptly carried out. Accordingly, I seek leave to give a notice of motion in respect of this matter. 
Leave granted. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate notes with concern the failure of some Ministers and departments promptly to carry out undertakings given to the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances to amend unsatisfactory legislation, as recorded in the 62nd report of the Committee. 
-In view of the remarks made by  Senator Button  I would like to speak briefly on this matter. I probably have some reservations similar to his own as to the widening of the terms of reference of the proposed joint select committee on the Family Law Act, although I think that surely this is a matter which the members of the committee should very much have in mind in their own determination of the matters before it. We did not have debate to any great extent on this matter when it was last before us. Unquestionably a number of important issues have arisen as to the practicality and effectiveness of the operations of the Act at present. Delays and other very serious practical problems have certainly come closely to my attention over the last few years and I have made a number of speeches in this chamber about them. From that point of view I think it is very useful that a committee ought to be looking into these matters. 
There is to be a slight increase in the House of Representatives membership of the committee. I have felt that there has been perhaps a somewhat inadequate interest in the subject of the family law legislation in the House of Representatives in recent years. If this increased membership means that there is a growing interest then it is highly desirable. I hope that this means that a number of members from the House of Representatives will be interested to take part in the proposed committee 's investigation. 

 Senator Button raised the matter of the addition to the terms of reference of the following paragraph:  its effect on the institution of marriage and the family; 
Like the honourable senator, I have reservations about the addition, because the Senate made an extensive inquiry into this subject not just in 1 975 but, of course, between 1972 and 1975. A massive amount of evidence was called about the position of the divorce grounds and the effect on the institution of marriage of the Family Law Act. If this committee is to proceed to come up with practical working suggestions as to the way in which the Family Court should operate, obviously it will not want to be delayed by having a very long investigation, a sort of rehearing of evidence already given to the Senate before the family law legislation was introduced in 1975. Of course, as  Senator Button  has said, it is too early to examine and determine the effect of the changes to that legislation. 
It is very significant that the Family Law Act provided for the creation of an institute of family studies. The Family Law Council has been in operation and it has before this Parliament recommendations that have not been dealt with yet. I hope and I believe that they will be dealt with soon. I hope that they will not be held up in any way, and I do not believe that they will be held up, by the fact that this committee is going into active operation. The Institute of Family Studies has not really got underway. The amount of money spent on it has been very slender. Yet that is the very body which I would have expected to be examining the effect of the Act on the institution of marriage and the various other results of it. Of course, it is a great pity that the works of the Institute are not available for this committee to investigate. 
Consequently, I look upon this new committee as one which ought to set itself for the very urgent task of looking at the real practicalities, the delays and the weaknesses in the operation of the Act and the things which cause anguish to people at present. I hope that the committee will not go through the exercise of reinvestigating the Family Law Act, which I believe is a substantially excellent Act. It has generally operated pretty well, but in the way in which the courts are applying it, I think that defects are showing up and it is obviously useful for a committee of the Parliament to take a close look at the matter. I join with  Senator Button  in hoping that the widening of the terms of reference, which naturally is a matter that ought be within the compass of the committee to consider, will not take the major aspect of the Committee's attention, but that the committee will be a practical, useful working committee that comes forward with some fairly quick solutions to the problems which are bedevelling family law at present. I support the motion. 

 Senator BUTTON (Victoria)-by leave-I wish to make a brief statement on this matter. There is constant discussion in this chamber about the levels of literacy and numeracy in Australian society. I felt that it would be disastrous in terms of morale for the Senate and for this country if it were known outside this Parliament that senators were both illiterate and not very numerate when it came to considering statements which had been tabled by Ministers. In fact, I misread the effect of this message from the House of Representatives. It does not, in fact, increase the number of senators who would be on the committee. I said that it did. In fact, the effect of the amendment is to increase the number of Government members of the House of Representatives from five to six and the number of Opposition members of the House of Representatives from three to four. The motion has no effect on the number of senators. I felt that I should indicate that I made a mistake in that regard. I adhere to everything that I said in terms of principle, I retract those matters of fact which I thought supported the principle but which, as it turns out, do not. 
I join in this debate and support with a great deal of pleasure the motion as amended. As  chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs I believe that I represent the views of members of the Committee when I say we welcome the motion to refer these two Bills to the Committee. I also welcome the statements made this evening by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  in regard to the legislation. It should not be taken from that that I am agreeing with everything the Attorney-General said in his statement tonight, but I have certainly noted his remarks with a great deal of interest. We very warmly welcome the offer of cooperation from his officers. Of course, this cooperation is essential to the deliberations and work of the Senate Committee which will obviously be required to ascertain the opinions of officers of the Government and departmental officers as well as members of the public generally and experts of all sorts who want to make a contribution on this subject. I note that the Attorney-General made some reference to some 34 questions of mine and made some comments on them. I will not comment on that except to say that no doubt we will be looking among other subjects with interest at the reaction to those questions and to other questions in regard to matters relevant to freedom of information. 
So far as the amended motion is concerned, one recognises that one of the two Bills before us- the Archives Bill- is only partially relevant to the subject of freedom of information generally. The amendment recognises that fact. What the Committee would do under this reference is investigate those parts or aspects of the legislation that are in common, some of which have been referred to by  Senator Ryan  who has just spoken in the debate. Of course those aspects will be taken into account. At the same time there are other quite separate issues that arise under the Archives Bill. Criticisms have been made by some members of the community and those are matters which much more appropriately ought to be investigated by the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts. Of course we will cooperate with that Committee where there is any possibility of overlap or unnecessary action in the case of duplication. I believe that the two committees naturally will co-operate in this respect. 
I want to say one or two things about the type of inquiry that will take place. The Freedom of Information Bill has been on public display for a few months and, of course, it has had a period of some five years in gestation. During that period it has been in the hands of interdeparmental committees. Contributions as to its formation have come mostly from government authorities and public servants. I do not say that that is the whole extent of the contribution because, of course, the Government has sought public input. Unquestionably in a matter like this which is so significant to the public it is not easy for the public to make a contribution until legislation is drafted and until it has something that can be actually seen and analysed. 
The debate which has taken place in the public media and elsewhere since that time has been quite considerable, but the debate has not been devoted directly to considering the precise terms of what should be, for example, exemptions against disclosure. Of course, many general remarks have been made in the course of public discussion, but really I think there is a call for a Senate committee to actually look steadily at a Bill like this. What I hope the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee would expect to do would be to conduct the most thorough and extensive inquiry that has ever been carried out by a Senate committee. I know that is perhaps a tall order. I have in mind another inquiry that was carried out by this same committee, namely, the inquiry into national compensation a few years ago. It was also very extensive and took the Committee to all parts of the Commonwealth. I would expect that this likewise would be a most extensive inquiry because obviously there is a lot of interest in this proposal. There is a need, for a contribution to be made by members of the public in a practical and co-operative sense. 
We expect that we will allow some time for submissions to be put forward. We would encourage people to put in submissions at a reasonably early date so that we can start quite early in calling evidence. We will call some evidence, of course, in Canberra. We will take advantage of the Attorney-General's kind offer of assistance from officers of his Department and other departments to ascertain the purposes of the Bill, to fill out the reasons for the Bill as it stands and to discuss with them the proposals that come forward from time to time. We will no doubt need to have the assistance of consultants. We will in fact use the advantages of other people in the community who we believe are capable of assisting the Committee in its work. The Committee contemplates that it will go to all the capital cities of Australia if need be to take evidence that is offered. We will not expect everyone to come to us. We will go and find out what people have in mind in respect of this Bill. We will urge them to put in submissions that are directly related, of course, to the way in which freedom of information might operate in this country. 
There is a vast amount of material to be looked at in regard to freedom of information. There is, of course, a considerable range of possibilities so far as this legislation is concerned. No one can say that a certain exemption has to be phrased in a certain way. There may be quite a number of alternatives and we would of course want to examine those alternatives with witnesses, with consultants and with people of goodwill who we believe would be determined to assist the Committee in its examination. 
We hope that it will not be too long before the Committee comes back to the Senate with a report which would not only express views but also would be part of the educational process of the community. By this I have in mind the possibility that there is some lack of knowledge both in this Senate and in the community as to what freedom of information might involve. We would hope that our report would have the sort of effect which we have seen other Senate reports have had in informing and improving the debate in this chamber and enabling the Senate, the Government, the House of Representatives and all those in this Parliament who have a responsibility, to be able to make decisions that are useful. We hope that the report will enable the Parliament to create a Bill which is effective and which will not be a disappointment for people who have had expectations for it. We hope the report will achieve the effective purposes which the Attorney-General has referred to tonight. Clearly, the legislation is not at the moment understood publicly in that form. We will need to ascertain whether in fact there is a misunderstanding on the part of the public or whether other improvements are called for in the Bill before it is passed through the Parliament. In this we will endeavour to keep an open mind on the details as far as we can. We realise that nobody approaches a subject such as this without having some ideas which study over a period of years tends to form. But there are many areas of the unknown that I think it will be for us to look at. We believe that in the course of doing this we may be able to inform both the public and the Parliament and, I hope, produce a useful report before too long. 
I welcome both the Government attitude and the attitude of the Opposition and other members we have heard. We hope that they will make their contribution. The Committee will be only too pleased to see them exercising their right to sit with the Committee during the examination. We hope that the interest will not be confined just to members of the Committee but that other members of the Senate will make their contribution in this way. I certainly support the motion as amended and hope that we will do a job for this Committee and for the Senate that the Senate will be pleased to accept. 
I give notice that, six sitting days after today, I shall move: 
That the new By-Law 32 contained in Amendment No. 1 5 of the Telecommunications (General) By-Laws, made under the Telecommunications Act 1 97S, be disallowed. 
I give notice that, six sitting days after today, I shall move: 
That the amendment of the Schools Commission Regulations, as contained in Statutory Rules 1978 No. 81, and made under the Schools Commission Act 1973, be disallowed. 
I give notice that, six sitting days after today, I shall move: 
That Regulation 4 of the Historic Shipwrecks Regulations, as contained in Statutory Rules 1978 No. 93, and made under the Historic Shipwrecks Act 1 976, be disallowed. 
-by leave-The three matters which are the subject of the notices of motion I have just given are under inquiry by the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. In relation to the first two matters, the Committee has received correspondence from the responsible Minister but has not had time to consider the latest correspondence. As today is the last day for giving notice of motion, I  have given such notice to allow the Committee time to pursue its inquiries. The third matter is one about which the Committee wrote to the responsible Minister on 14 September 1978 but a reply has not yet been received. Tomorrow is the last sitting day for giving notice in relation to this matter. I have given notice today, as a matter of convenience, to allow the Committee time to consider any reply from the Minister. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the present session of the General Assembly of the United Nations and to the issue of East Timor which is an item on its agenda. Does the Australian Government continue to support the call to the Indonesian Government to facilitate the entry into East Timor of the International Committee of the Red Cross and other relief organisations in order to assist the people of the territory? Does the Australian Government continue to support the sending of a United Nations special representative to East Timor for the purpose of making a thorough on-the-spot assessment of the existing situation in the territory? Will the Australian Government at the present session put forward specific and positive proposals that are consistent with its publicly stated policies on East Timor in an attempt to overcome the conflict and suffering in the territory and to secure early reunion of Timorese families? Has the Australian delegation received instructions to take constructive steps when this item is considered by the General Assembly? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Did the Minister refuse, on 2 November 1 977, to make public the reports made by the Australian National Railways Commission on accidents which have occurred on the Australian National Railways; if so, why. 
Will the Minister reconsider the decision. 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's commitment to freedom of information. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
Did the Minister refuse, on 14 September 1977, to make public the contents of the complaint files which he holds concerning the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Was the information refused despite the fact that the names of the authors were not requested. 
If so, will the Minister indicate why he took such action, and whether he is willing to reconsider the decision. 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 April 1 978: 
1 ) Did the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal refuse, on 26 September 1 977, to make public the financial returns furnished to it pursuant to section 106 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1 942; if so, why. 
Will the Minister reconsider the decision. 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government 's public commitment to freedom of information. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. I seek information regarding the Export Expansion Grants Bill, which was introduced into the House of Representatives on 6 June 1978. Is the Minister aware that there is considerable concern in the export industry about the slow progress of this important Bill and that this has inhibited planning and expansion by Australian exporters? Can the Minister inform the Senate when this Bill is likely to be further debated in the Parliament? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as either the Minister representing the Prime Minister or as Minister for Education. My question is related to the Commonwealth Government 's decision not to allow sand mining on Fraser Island but instead to preserve that island's natural environment. Is the Minister aware that the individual who championed the Fraser Island cause,  Mr John  Sinclair, has been placed under significant political pressure by the Queensland Government for the action he has taken as  President  of the Fraser Island Defence Organisation? Has it been brought to the Minister's attention that  Mr Sinclair,  who works for the State Education Department, for no apparent reason has had his job transferred away from the vicinity of Fraser Island to Brisbane? Will the Minister inform the Senate whether any steps can be taken to stop the Queensland Government's persecution of  Mr Sinclair  who is being politically attacked simply because he sought to conserve an island that has been recognised as part of the world 's heritage? 
-I am drawn into this debate because I find myself not entirely in agreement with either  Senator Walters  or  Senator Button  about this matter. I make it clear that I will certainly be supporting this Bill. 
It does not sound at all like a lawyer. I am not speaking as a lawyer. I have received many representations on this matter and I am somewhat critical of this provision. I know very little about income tax law. I was never a lawyer who practised in it and I would not go to myself for advice on income tax law if it were to save myself. Nonetheless I believe that I can recognise some of the simple propositions that are put up to me and some of the things that are said about this provision. I regret that the Government has drawn up this provision in such a simplistic fashion. I think the two arguments that we have just heard -about the matter were quite simplistic. I do not think it is just a matter of industrial relations and I do not think it is just a matter of tax avoidance. I think that the Government is endeavouring to catch with this proposal some definite pieces of tax avoidance in the sense that some people have quite deliberately allowed their holiday pay and so forth to accummulate because of the tax advantages involved. Insofar as the Government does that I think that it is desirable. But on the other hand - 
-I do not think it is totally in the hands - 
-I do not agree at all with the honourable senator. It is not totally in the hands of the employer. The employer would have no particular influence on that. A number of cases have been brought to my attention where, indeed, the employee has not been able to take his holiday pay. In fact, there are circumstances- I think some examples occurred in the railways and there are other such situations- where people have stayed on instead of retiring and now find themselves - 
Yes, it is going to continue. The honourable senator misunderstands me. I am saying that there is a number of situations at the moment where people cannot be blamed for not having taken their holiday pay. In fact they have stayed on, sometimes probably to the benefit of a firm which is in some difficulty, sometimes because there is a shortage of people to replace them and for other reasons and it has delayed their holidays. It has not been for tax avoidance purposes at all. I feel it is a pity that the Government has not found a more complex solution to this problem in the sense of distinguishing aspects of tax avoidance. I am all for picking up the areas of tax avoidance. I applaud most warmly what the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has been doing in regard to this matter. I think that insofar as he is doing that it is ensuring that the people shall pay in justice their taxation and that the tricky ones will not get away with tax avoidance. Insofar as he does that I applaud him. I have spoken to the Treasurer about this, as have other honourable senators, and I regret that the Government has not found a complex method whereby there is a way in which people who could not take their holiday pay would not have to suffer this particular disadvantage. It is a pity that the Government has not done so. I would not vote against such a proposal. I am not going to vote against Budget Bills and Budget proposals. The Government makes its decision on these things and - 
There is a package. I have never voted down a Budget or Supply Bill and I never will. 
-I voted, but I will never vote down such Bills. The fact is that I never have. The fact is that I find in this Budget what one finds in every budget- some regrettable features, something upon which one wishes one did not have the judgment.  Senator Chaney  nods his head very wisely. Perhaps it has come loose; I do not know: I am sorry if my logic is having that effect. I say sincerely that I am sorry this matter was not looked at in a more complex way to cover the different people. Some people have suffered I think because of this. Whether the measure is retrospective or not in a strict sense they have had reasonable expectations. Perhaps their expectations are mistaken because they have carried on a job and not taken leave but nonetheless I think one must accept this as a general proposition. Therefore I support the clause but I hope that the Government will look at the matter again next year and perhaps try to find a more just solution. 
-I should like to comment briefly on one matter. Early this morning during Question Time interjections were made by honourable senators opposite about  Senator Bonner.  Some remarks were made that  Senator Bonner  was in the Northern Territory and was not allowed to come back. I have no doubt that they were probably good natured interjections and not intended entirely to be serious. I just want to say that it is known to honourable senators on this side of the House that  Senator Bonner  has not been well for about 10 days. He came back from the Northern Territory about 10 days ago. He has had some very painful back trouble. He has been under constant treatment and, therefore, has been confined to bed. He has not been in the Northern Territory or anywhere like that, so there was nothing to the suggestions that were made by my colleagues opposite. I think it should be pointed out that  Senator Bonner,  whom I expect will be back next week was not suffering from us but was suffering from another illness this week. I am sure that even so, he will come bravely back to face the Senate as soon as he can. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Did the Minister for Administrative Services refuse, on 16 August 1977, to make public reports from the interdepartmental committees inquiring into museums, national collections and public libraries; if so, why? 
2 ) Will the Minister reconsider the decision? 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Did the Minister refuse, on 13 October 1977, to make public the reports that had been compiled as part of his Department 's efforts to monitor the debate on uranium; if so, why? 
Will the Minister reconsider the decision? 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
1 ) How much money did the Commonwealth Government allocate to the National Youth Council of Australia in 1976, 1977 and 1978. 
How were these funds then allocated, item by item, by the National Youth Council. 
What assistance does the National Youth Council receive from the Commonwealth Government apart from direct financial grants. 
Who were the National Executive members of the Council in 1976, 1977 and 1978, and which organisations did they represent. 
What measures are employed by the Commonwealth Government to ensure that the funds it contributes to the National Youth Council are administered and expended in the interests of Australian youth. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
1 ) How much money has been expended on the Housing Allowance Experiment scheme by the Commonwealth Government since July 1976. 
How many members of the Commonwealth Public Service have, since the inception of the scheme, been directly involved in its operation. 
How many people were employed from outside the Public Service to assist with the scheme, and when will their contracts be terminated. 
How much notice was given to the participating State Governments by the Commonwealth Government that the scheme was to be cancelled. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 April 1 978: 
1 ) Did the Australian Telecommunications Commission refuse, on 1 1 October 1977, to make public any report or submissions made to the Minister regarding the reasons for increasing the price of telegrams; if so, why. 
) Will the Minister reconsider the decision. 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
My question without notice is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Is the Minister in receipt of a letter from  Mr J.  F. Barnard, managing director of Barnard Bros Pty Ltd, which outlines a campaign by one trade union to breach the wage fixation principles established by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission? Is the Minister aware that 
Barnard Bros has been subject to industrial intimidation by the Builders Labourers Federation in its campaign for a 35-hour week? Is he also aware that by refusing to accept the excessive demands of the BLF and by choosing not to make a sweetheart deal with the union, Barnard Bros has sacrificed a number of its long-standing contracts and suffered business loss? What does the Commonwealth Government intend to do to protect the rights of Barnard Bros or any business enterprise, which is, by its actions, taking a public interest stand against the irresponsible actions of one trade union? 
I want to speak tonight about a matter which has worried me for some time and which I believe now needs to be placed before the Senate. It relates to the circumstances surrounding the recent appointment of the Secretary-General of the National Aboriginal Conference. This important position in the community was being filled for the first time. It was a position for which nominations were called. Briefly, I want to place before the Senate the circumstances in which one important candidate for this position,  Mr David  Anderson, has been passed over.  Mr Anderson,  a 
Victorian resident, is an Aborigine who has had a long experience in Aboriginal affairs. I believe that he has quite high qualifications. These circumstances certainly call for an explanation which so far I have not been able to receive. I will refer to some documents which I hope to have incorporated. I have shown them to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt). 
There are circumstances which must be retailed. Advertisements for the positions of Secretary-General and Executive Officer on the secretariat appeared in the newspapers on 27 May 1978.  Mr David  Anderson, whom I have known for a number of years, made an application on 12 June seeking these positions and in the application he gave his address, 53 Eliza Street, Black Rock in Victoria, and also his place of work. He was at that stage lecturing at the Christ College, the State College of Victoria, in Melbourne. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a copy of the application that he made. 
Leave granted. 

 The application read as follows- 53 Eliza St Black Rock, 3 193, Vic. 12 June 1978 
Chairman NAC Interim Secretariat c/o Department of Aboriginal Affairs POBox 17 Woden, ACT 2896 
Dear  Sir 
RE: APPLICATION 
I refer to your public notice which appeared in 'The Age' on Saturday 27 May seeking certain staff for the National Aboriginal Conference Secretariat. 
Please consider this letter as my application for the positions of (a) Secretary-General and (b) Executive Officer. 
My qualifications and experience are as follows. I have a BA in Anthropology and Sociology from Monash University. The experience I have in Aboriginal Affairs is nearly fourteen years. In the period 1973 to March 1977 I served as a member ofthe NAC's predecessor, the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. From March 1976 to March 1977I held the portfolio of Executive Member for Information and Communications on the Executive of the NACC. 
Currently I am lecturing in Aboriginal Affairs and sociology at Christ College- S.C.V. in Melbourne. 
I am applying for these positions because I am sure I could carry out these functions more effectively than they were carried out in the past. I seek a position within the Secretariat as I want to see better cross-cultural communications between Aboriginal Australians and non-Aboriginals in our multicultural society. 
I would be available from the end of October; however an earlier arrangement could be made should my application be successful. 
Yours faithfully David R. Anderson 
-It will be observed that in that application he made it clear that he was applying for these positions, that he was lecturing at this college at the time and that he was not available until the end of October but could make an earlier arrangement. He made it abundantly clear where he was living and that he sought the position. He received an acknowledgement dated 14 June of receipt of the application. He was told that his application would receive attention. The acknowledgement was signed by the Secretary of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. On 3 1 August  Mr Anderson  was at a seminar of the Aborigines Advancement League at Northcote in Victoria and there was told by a member ofthe executive of the Conference,  Mrs Nessie  Skuta, that he had not been appointed and that she was surprised that he was in Australia because the executive had been told that he was out of Australia. Clearly he had not been considered as an applicant and his application for appointment had not been voted on by the executive. 

 Mrs Skuta had taken a tape recording of the proceedings of the executive meeting on 8 August when the decision was made. I have taken a tape recording of the relevant parts; it is not the original recording. I think it is important that we realise that in the course of making the decision statements of the nature I shall indicate to the Senate shortly were made. I will read from a transcript of the executive meeting in Adelaide on 8 August. At the beginning of the discussion on this matter a  Mr McNamara  of the Public Service Board, the officer seconded to act as secretary and to deal with the important investigations and the interviewing of applicants for this position, said that certain people had withdrawn because of their commitments. Then he said: 
A couple we were disappointed because they did withdraw. One person, David Anderson, of Black Rock in Victoria, was contacted; however David is overseas and obviously, because of the terms of reference of filling the position, cannot be contacted. That was one disappointing aspect. 
That, of course, is a very clear but mistaken statement. Later on he said: 
I mentioned a letter went to David Anderson, no reply to date. 
He then discussed the various candidates- the members of the executive discussed them fullyand at a later stage but before the voting took place  Mr Bird,  a member of the executive, mentioned  Mr McEwen,  who was the successful candidate. He said: 
Just about McEwen, as Greg said, we interviewed him twice, not on the same day. His reason that he didn't apply  for the top position was that he thought it should have went to an Aborigine. 
I draw attention to that because he was appointed to the top position. I understand that that was the decision which was made although at that time  Mr McEwen  was not even an applicant for the top position. A little further on in the discussion,  Mr Munro,  another member of the executive, said: 
Before we vote, gentlemen, there's just one thing that Bill said, to carry on from there, about an Aboriginal in that position, I think there was one nomination, wasn't there? He was overseas, he couldn't get back in time, that was David Anderson, we gave him every opportunity, we were very disappointed that he didn't contact us where we could him and . . . 
What was said then is unclear on the tape. There was reference to another Aboriginal candidate who was not appointed. Again before the meeting voted,  Mrs Skuta  who took the recording, said: 

 Mr Chairman, could I just make one comment, seeing that David Anderson, you know, never came for the interview, possibly, you know, when he does come back and we know what he's up to or what he's intending to do, possibly later on he can meet with  Mr McEwen  and you know, because he is the only Aboriginal we 've got in Australia today that has got the qualifications of that top position. 
There was further discussion. Someone said: 
It's a pity David was overseas . . . and he couldn 't get back till October . . . 

 Mrs Skuta also said:   no, it's a shame, very disappointing, but never mind, you know, we've made a wise choice, I believe. 
Just before that statement was made they had voted in favour of  Mr McEwen  over the two other candidates who were in the final ballot. At the end of this discussion  Mrs Skuta  said: 
I would like it to- for the Executive to state that they were disappointed that David didn 't turn up for the interview. 
Then  Mr McNamara  concluded the discussion by saying: 
If I can perhaps act as mediator here, on NAC letterhead perhaps I could write to David and thank him and express the disappointment of the Executive that he didn 't - 
Then the recording is unclear, but later continues: 
. and would he please get in touch when he gets back to Australia. That's suitable . . . 
I suggest that it is very clear that it was a very important discussion, that it was put before the Executive that David Anderson was overseas and not available, and that he was not chosen for those reasons. Some two or three weeks later he discovered that he had not been chosen. He had not been called for any appointment but the meeting had been held. The position is that he has not been overseas, was not overseas in that period, had no intention of going overseas, did not tell anyone he was going overseas, was lecturing in behavioural studies at Christ Collegeand his colleagues there knew he was- was living in the residence in which he had lived for some considerable period, but did not get any mail there about the subject of call to attend any interview. 
As soon as he discovered the position he sent a telegram on 1 September to the  Hon.  Ian Viner, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, stating that he had not been given the courtesy of any reply to his application and that he would appreciate some response.  Mr Hay,  the Secretary to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, replied saying, amongst other things: 
I understand however that the NAC wrote to you on 2 1 July concerning interview arrangements. 

 Mr President, I seek leave to have those two telegrams incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 

I. Viner, Minister for Aboriginal Affairs Commonwealth Parliament Offices, City Center Tower, 44 St Georges Terrace, Perth, W.A. 
Have not had courtesy of any reply my application for N.A.C. Secretariat positions (A) secretary general (B) executive officer. Would appreciate some response. My address 53 Eliza Street, Black Rock. 
David R. Anderson, 53 Eliza Street, Black Rock. 

 Mr D. R. Anderson, 53 Eliza Street, Black Rock 
The Minister has asked me to respond to your telegram concerning your application for a position in the NAC Secretariat. Under NAC charter responsibility for recruitment of staff rests with the NAC Executive. I understand however that the NAC wrote to you on 2 1 July concerning interview arrangements. 
D.O. HAY, Secretary, Department of Aboriginal Affairs, Canberra. 
-The position then becomes, if anything, more strange. On 13 September  Mr David  Anderson received two identical circular letters. They are letters from the National Aboriginal Conference and are signed Gregory N. McNamara, Interim NAC Secretariat, Canberra'. Certain parts of the letter have been filled in by hand and the rest is a normal letter telling someone that he has not received the appointment to the position. The parts that have been filled in by hand seem to me to bear the same handwriting as that of the person who signed the letter, that is,  Mr McNamara.  The interesting thing about both documents is that they are dated 6 August 1978. Apparently they took five weeks to be received by  Mr Anderson;  but, significantly, they are dated two days before the Executive meeting which made the decision to appoint the Secretary-General and the Director. I do not know the explanation for that. I do not think our mails are so bad that those letters would take so long to reach  Mr Anderson.  I cannot understand why they should be dated and telling a person that he was not appointed to the position two days before the appointments were actually made. 
At around this time I came into possession of a tape. I had it transcribed and I made it available to the Minister on about 12 September. I spoke to the Minister at about that time and ever since I have been seeking an explanation of these curious circumstances.  Mr President,  I seek leave to have the letter dated 6 August 1978 to  Mr Anderson  from  Mr McNamara  incorporated in the  Hansard  record. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 

NATIONAL ABORIGINAL CONFERENCE 
C/o Department of Aboriginal Affairs P.O.Box 17, Woden, A.C.T. 2606 6 August 1978 
Dear  Mr Anderson, 
I refer to your application for the position of Secretary General, Class 10 in the National Aboriginal Conference Secretariat. 
The final selection for appointment to this position has been made by the Executive ofthe National Aboriginal Conference and on their behalf I regret to inform you that your application has not been successful on this occasion. 
The Executive has requested that I pass on their sincere appreciation of your interests in the National Aboriginal Conference Secretariat and the role the Secretariat will play in assisting the National Aboriginal Conference. 
If you wish to discuss your application would you please contact me (reverse charges) on 8962S2 Canberra, area code 062. 
Yours sincerely, Gregory N. McNamara, Interim NAC Secretariat, Canberra. 
-On 22 September I wrote to the Honourable Ian Viner about this matter, having already spoken to him about it. In that letter I referred to our discussions.  Mr President,  I seek leave to have that letter incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 22nd September, 1978. 
The  Hon.  Ian Viner, M.P., Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, Parliament House, CANBERRA, A.C.T. 2600 
My dear Minister, 
Re:  Mr David  Anderson, Applicant for the position .of Secretary General National Aboriginal Conference Secretariat 
I refer to discussions which I have had with you and the transcript which I supplied to you of a tape, relating to the apparent misleading advice given to the Executive of the National Aboriginal Conference, as to the  availablity  of  Mr David  Anderson for appointment to the position of Secretary General. 
I note that you did receive a telegram from  Mr Anderson  some time ago in regard to this position, and I hoped that you have made enquiries of the Executive to find out whether this unsatisfactory position is to be remedied. 
I have now received from  Mr David  Anderson a copy of a circular letter,.dated the 6th August, 1 978, which apparently was received at his private Black Rock address last Wednesday, 13 th September, 1978. 1 enclose a copy of that letter. 
I would appreciate hearing from you as a matter of urgency. 
Yours sincerely, Alan Missen  Senator for  Victoria 
-In that letter I drew attention to the misleading advice that had been given to the Executive. I also drew attention to the telegram that  Mr Anderson  had received and I sought to hear from the Minister as a matter of urgency. Following that occasion,  Mr David  Anderson also made attempts to find out what was happening. Not only he but also  Mr Hagan,  a member of the Executive, have endeavoured to obtain this mysterious letter of 2 1 July which apparently was to be sent or was sent to  Mr David  Anderson, inviting him to make an appointment to be interviewed, but which  Mr David  Anderson has never seen. Neither I nor  Mr Hagan  nor  Mr Anderson  has yet been able to obtain a copy of that letter. 
In fact, when  Mr Anderson  spoke to a  Mr Brian  Bourke in the Department on 27 September in the absence of  Mr McNamara  who was either ill or had suffered an accident, he was told by  Mr Bourke  that  Mr Bourke  could not answer his questions.  Mr Anderson  sought to find out about this letter and the letter dated 6 August and told  Mr Bourke  about the tape.  Mr Bourke  told him that he could not answer his questions as he had no knowledge whatever of the facts. In respect of  Mr Anderson's  request for a copy of the letter of 2 1 July,  Mr Bourke  said that he had no access to documents. He said that the applications were regarded as a hot potato as far as the Department was concerned and that the Department had endeavoured to ensure that  they were processed in such a way as to ensure impartiality. So nobody seems yet to have been able to get hold of this document or to have been able to see it. 
In addition, after these further inquiries,  Mr Anderson  also sent a telegram to the Honourable Ian Viner of 29 September 1978.  Mr President,  I seek leave to have that telegram incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

I. Viner Minister for Aboriginal Affairs Commonwealth Parliament Offices City Centre Towers 44 St Georges Terrace Perth, West Australia 
Re your departmental secretarys telegram 26-9-78 would appreciate copy of supposed letter of 21 July 1978 inviting me to attend job interview stop would also appreciate clarification of why I received letter signed Gregory McNamara and dated 6-8-78 informing me my application was unsuccessful when I am informed by members of NAC executive that I was on shortlist for selection and the shortlist was discussed by the selection panel on 8-8-78 stop I have tape of deliberations of selection panel on 8-8-78 in Adelaide on which McNamara and others are heard to say that every effort was made to contact me but that I was overseas and could not attend interview which is quite untrue stop these inconsistencies suggest irregularity in processing my application and warrant full investigation stop reply my address 53 Eliza St Black Rock 3 1 93 
David R. Anderson 
Wired 3.50 pm Friday 29 September 1978 Black Rock Post Office, 3 1 93 

 - Mr Anderson then sought to obtain further information about these events and why they had happened. On 3 October I wrote again to the Honourable Ian Viner, trying again to find out what the position was and seeking some explanation of this circular letter which apparently was sent on 6 August.  Mr President,  I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  my letter of 3 October and the Minister's reply, which is actually dated 2 October. 
Leave granted. 

 The letters read as follows- 3rd October 1978 
The  Hon.  Ian Viner, M.P., Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, Parliament House, Canberra, ACT 2600 
My dear Minister, 
Re: David R. Anderson- Applicant for position of Secretary General National Aboriginal Conference. 
As you are aware, I have been concerned for some weeks with the situation whereby this applicant was passed over on mistaken information, which was apparently advised to the National Executive of the National Aboriginal Conference by an officer of the Public Service Board, then seconded to that Executive. 
I supplied you some time ago a copy of the transcript of the tape which I have, relating to discussion at the National Executive on the 8th August 1978, and I note that  Mr Anderson  has now received a circular letter, received on the 13 September 1978, but signed by Gregory McNamara and dated the 6th August, advising that he was unsuccessful for the N.A.C. Secretariat positions.  Mr McNamara  has, so far, failed to explain to the Acting  Chairman, Mr J.  P. Hagan, the arrangements he made to contact David Anderson. This seems extremely curious in view of the fact that the decision was made on the 8th August. 
I understand from my discussion with you that you were going to make enquiries, and I am surprised that you have not given me any answer to my written complaint about this matter. I do not intend to let the matter rest where it is, and intend to raise the matter in the Senate if I do not receive a satisfactory explanation of this situation, and am informed that justice will now be done to this man, preferably by the re-opening of the appointments. 
Yours sincerely, Alan Missen  Senator for  Victoria 
Minister for Aboriginal Affairs Canberra, A.C.T. 2600 2 Oct 1978 
Dear  Senator Missen, 
Thank you for the copy of your letter of 4 September to  Senator Bonner  concerning allegations that  Mr David  Anderson was passed over for appointment as Secretary General to the National Aboriginal Conference and for your further letter of 22 September. 
The true facts ofthe matter are that: 
A sub-committee of the National Aboriginal Conference Executive Committee assessed applications for positions with the N.A.C. Secretariat and acted as the interviewing committee. 

 Mr G. McNamara, a senior officer of the Public Service, was selected by the Public Service Board to assist the interviewing panel in its deliberations and to act as Secretary of the panel in a non-voting capacity.  Mr McNamara  has fourteen years service, is a qualified psychological examiner and an experienced interviewer. 

 Mr McNamara has advised that he sent a letter to  Mr David  Anderson on 2 1 July 1 978 asking that  Mr Anderson  contact him to arrange a suitable time for an interview. No response was received. 
The interview panel were looking for the best applicant regardless of whether or not that applicant was an Aboriginal. There is no suggestion whatsoever that  Mr Anderson  was unacceptable to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. In fact, the Department had no involvement at all in the selection of applicants or in the interview of those applicants. 
There is therefore no question of an investigation in a breach of the Anti-Discrimination Act. 
I have sent a copy of this letter to  Senator Bonner. 
Yours sincerely, (R. I. Viner) 
-The Minister's letter to me described the way in which people were appointed. It also stated that  Mr McNamara  had advised that he sent a letter to  Mr David  Anderson on 2 1 July. But the Minister's letter did not enclose a copy of that letter. It spoke about the way in which the panel went about trying to obtain a candidate. It finished with this somewhat curious remark: 
There is therefore no question of an investigation in a breach of the Anu-Discrimination Act. 
I presume that he means the Racial Discrimination Act. I had not at any stage made any suggestion that there had been any breach of that Act and I do not understand particularly that reference. 
Since then I spoke to the Minister last week at some length. I have endeavoured to get him to ascertain the facts of this matter. I have not proceeded particularly quickly with this matter. I think that I have perhaps been a little slow in proceeding with this matter, but I have endeavoured to find out by all means possible the circumstances of the matter and an explanation for them. I have endeavoured to find out why this man, who appears to be the only Aboriginal in the particular field with the qualifications, was not appointed; how statements were made that he was out of the country: how letters were sent to him which took five weeks to arrive and which were dated before the appointments were even made; and why I cannot get hold of a copy of the letter alleged to have been sent to him, and nor can the other people concerned. 
I think that clearly an injustice has been done. I have suggested to the Minister and I now suggest to the Senate and to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  that it is patent that any such appointment should be set aside so that there can be a reconsideration of a candidate who was passed over in these circumstances. I suggest that there needs to be an explanation as to how this set of circumstances came to pass. I therefore trust that this matter will get deep consideration by the Ministry and that in fact there will be an early answer to the matters which I have put on the record and before the Senate tonight. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 3 September 1978: 
Has a Protective Security Handbook been issued recently by the Commonwealth Government, and made available to Commonwealth public servants; if so, will the Prime Minister make the Handbook available to members of Parliament and other interested citizens. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport a question in which I am seeking further information in respect of the matter raised by  Senator Wriedt  earlier today concerning the reported agreement by Qantas Airways Ltd to accede to the demands of the Syrian Government that Jews be banned from the airline's weekly flights to London via Damascus. Specifically, I want to know whether the Minister,  Mr Nixon,  was correctly reported in the  Age  this morning as saying that 'any restriction on Jewish passengers was part of an arrangement under which Qantas operated its Damascus service' and, more significantly, that it was part of Qantas' normal commercial operations and the Federal Government had taken no part in the decision'. Is not Qantas the responsibility of the Australian tax payer and obliged to abide by Australian legislation and policies on racial discrimination? Should the Australian Government not take all necessary action to protect Australian citizens and legitimate travellers from brutal intimidation and prejudice which flout the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights? 
by leave- I am making this statement on behalf of the Senate 
Regulations and Ordinances Committee. The Committee has received, and individual senators have also received, submissions from a number of persons concerning the Superannuation (Allocation of Previous Fund) Regulations as contained in Statutory Rules 1978 No. 156. The various submissions claim that the regulations, which are concerned with allocating the assets of the old Superannuation Fund, are unfair to long standing contributors to that Fund. The Committee has given careful consideration to these submissions and concluded that it ought not to take any action to have the regulations disallowed or altered. The Committee's reasons for this conclusion will be set out in a report which will be ready for presentation to the Senate on Tuesday next. 
I am making this statement because the next sitting day will be the last day for giving notice of a motion to disallow the regulations, and the Committee considered that it ought to acquaint the Senate with its conclusion before the next sitting day in case any  Senator wished  to give notice of a motion in relation to the regulations. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) Did the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs refuse, on 5 September 1 977, to make public the submissions which had been made to the Government regarding proposed amendments to the Trade Practices Act 1974 and the establishment of a private sector Securities Industry Council; if so, why. 
Will the Minister reconsider the decision. 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) Have submissions concerning the Swanson report on trade practices, referred to in House of Representatives  Hansard,  19 April 1977, page 977, been withheld from the public; if so, why. 
Will the Minister reconsider the decision. 
How does the Minister reconcile this apparent failure to provide information with the Government's public commitment to freedom of information. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
Will the Minister make available to the Parliament: 
a) the information used by Australia Post in arriving at its decision to increase postal rates in Australia; 
the estimates of Australia Post's projected financial position for 1978-79 had the rates not been increased; and 
the estimates of Australia Post's projected financial position for 1978-79 now that the rate increases have been approved by the Commonwealth Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
Will the Minister make available to the Senate: (a) the national evaluation study which was recently completed on the Community Youth Support Scheme: and (b) the evaluation study which was recently completed on the Special Youth Employment Training Program; if not, why not. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs received information from the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs relating to the allegations made by me in the Senate adjournment debate last Tuesday, 17 October, on the appointment of the Secretary-General and Executive Officer of the National Aboriginal Conference and the injustices done to  Mr David  Anderson, the only qualified Aboriginal candidate seeking the positions? If so, will the Minister make the information available to the Senate? In view of the injustices done, whether accidental or otherwise, and the involvement of a Public Service Board officer in the appointment procedures, will the Minister strongly recommend to the Executive of the National Aboriginal Conference that it set aside the appointments to enable a full and proper consideration of all qualified candidates to be undertaken? 
I present the sixty-third report from the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, relating to the Historic Shipwrecks Regulations, the Superannuation (Allocation of Previous Fund) Regulations, and the Superannuation (Additional Pension) Regulations. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a statement in relation to the report. 
Leave granted. 
-The first matter referred to in this report is the Historic Shipwrecks Regulations. These regulations are the subject of a notice of motion for disallowance which is on the Notice Paper. In this report the Committee makes a recommendation of disallowance on the ground that one provision in the regulations trespasses unduly on individual rights and liberties. The regulations and the matters raised by the Committee may be more fully discussed when the notice of motion is resolved. 
The second matter contained in this report was the subject of a statement which I made to the Senate last Thursday. The Committee has received a number of submissions and a legal opinion suggesting that the Superannuation (Allocation of Previous Fund) Regulations ought to be disallowed on the basis that they are unfair to long-standing contributors to the old superannuation fund and that they may not be in accordance with the Act. The Committee has carefully considered the submissions and opinion, has examined the regulations, and has taken advice on the matter from its own legal adviser. The Committee has concluded that the matters put to it had not established sufficient grounds for the Committee to take action to have the regulations disallowed or altered. The matters put to the Committee and the reasons for the Committee's conclusion are set out in the report. 
Briefly, there were two grounds upon which it was said that the Committee should take action against the regulations: Firstly, that the regulations take away the statutory discretion of the Minister for Finance to determine matters in relation to the allocation of contributor assets in the old superannuation fund, and, secondly, that the regulations were contrary to the statutory obligation imposed upon the Minister to make the allocation on a fair and reasonable basis. The Committee is not persuaded by either of these arguments, for reasons which are fully set out in the report. As the report points out, the objectors to the regulations have the right to take legal action on the basis of the matters put to the Committee. It would then be for the courts finally to determine the matters raised in the submissions. Today is the last day for giving notice of a motion to disallow the regulations, and my statement on Thursday last was intended to forewarn the Senate that the Committee had decided not to take any action on the regulations in case any other senator wished to give notice of a motion to disallow the regulations.  Senator Chipp  has today given such notice. Apart from making these remarks, I merely refer the members of the Senate to what we say in detail in the report. 
The third matter contained in the report is the Superannuation (Additional Pension) Regulations. These regulations, which provide the basis for calculating the additional contributorfinanced early retirement pension provided in section 61 of the Superannuation Act 1976, are retrospective for a period of more than two years. The Committee has given an undertaking to the Senate that where regulations involving the payment of moneys are retrospective for such a period, they will be the subject of report to the Senate and, unless exceptional circumstances are established, of a recommendation for disallowance. In relation to these regulations the Committee considers that the circumstances are exceptional for reasons which are set out in the report and that the degree of retrospectivity is explicitly authorised by the Act. The Committee does not, therefore, recommend that any action be taken against the regulations. 
I will speak very briefly to the motion. Many members on this side of the Senate wish to take part in this debate. They regard it, as does  Senator Georges,  as being of extreme importance. They are concerned about having the opportunity to read and to study the statement before debating it.  Senator Button  has had that privilege but I, for example, have not. As one who is concerned and as one who in recent times has received a lot of correspondence and representations on the matter of legal aid, and who is determined to obtain a lot more information during next week, I hope that this matter will come on for debate at a very early date. I will do what I can to ensure that this happens. 
I hope that the debate will be resumed as a matter of urgency because I think that what is in the statement is extremely important, as are the ramifications of what is not in the statement. I add those remarks lest it be thought that there are honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber who take an extreme interest in legal aid but who, by not speaking or endeavouring to speak this afternoon, do not want to speak on the matter. That is not the case. We do indeed want to speak on the matter, but first we want to give the statement proper attention and have the facts ready so that we can make a proper response to it. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs. I refer to the article in the  Bulletin  of 17 October 1978 claiming that the Thomas Watling painting of Sydney Cove- said to be Australia's first painting- has been declined by Australian galleries and has now been sold to a British art investment trust for $150,000 and returned to London. I ask: First, are the facts claimed in that article substantially correct and does this mean that this unique pan of Australia's history has been lost to Australian viewers? Secondly, did the Bureau of Customs, as has been alleged, attempt to impose an export ban on this national treasure, and was this attempt unsuccessful? Thirdly, why did not the Australian National Gallery acquire this national asset while it was in Australia? Finally, does the Minister have any proposals for retrieving this painting and repairing the damage done to our heritage? 
-I present the fifth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
I draw to the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs the publication of a pamphlet entitled 'Declaration of the Rights of the Child- a present for you from a Palestinian child '. Is the Minister aware of the existence of this pamphlet and of the fact that it bears the official symbol of the United Nations campaign for the International Year of the Child? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether this publication which states, among other things, that the Israeli Government practises policies of 'racist discrimination' and 'mass punishment' is produced by the United Nations or one of its agencies? If not. is the Minister concerned that the disturbing and inaccurate allegations made in the pamphlet may gain some respectability due to their misleading presentation and that this, in turn, will decrease the credibility of the official International Year of the Child campaign which Australia supports? 
My question, which I direct to the Minister representing the Prime Minister in the Senate, relates to a speech made by Professor Jack Richardson, the Commonwealth Ombudsman, on 18 October at the Australian National University. Is the Minister aware that in his speech Professor Richardson stated that he was facing increasing resistance from the Public Service when investigating public complaints and that the cause of this resistance was the doubt held by some about the precise jurisdiction of the Commonwealth Ombudsman? Is the Minister also aware of contentions mistakenly made by public servants that the Commonwealth Ombudsman is not entitled to investigate advice given to Ministers? Does the Minister concur with Professor Richardson 's view that his work is being frustrated due to the existence of these doubts? Will he take action to remedy the situation so that the important duties of the Ombudsman can be performed effectively? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to a series of community service commercials produced by Channel 10 in Sydney which run under the slogan 'Have a Go Australia'. Is the Minister aware of these commercials which endeavour to promote national pride and enthusiasm in Australia? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the Australian Broadcasting Commission will be exhibiting these advertisements? Will he encourage their use by commercial television stations? 
I take this opportunity to speak on Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1978-79 to raise an important matter which has been canvassed to some extent already this evening by  Senator Evans.  I refer to the state of legal aid in this country and the extent to which the Budget and this particular Appropriation Bill make provision for payments of legal aid. We must note at the outset that it makes a reduction, which I think is a generally agreed figure of something like $400,000, in the provision for this year as compared with that of last year. I regret very much not only this reduction but also the lack of interest which is seen in this country in legal aid. Unfortunately there is no substantial increase in this particular item in the Budget, nor have the activities and interests of the people of this country increased. 
I have taken an interest in this area for many years and I have seen it as a long continuing saga. It has not yet had any satisfactory ending. We know that in the present period a number of legal aid commissions are developing. They are amalgamating the arrangements in the different States so that the somewhat disparate organisations which at the present time are run by the legal service, by the profession- others are run by the Government, the Australian Legal Aid Office and still others by private organisationswill be able to work together. I think that is a good development. Indeed, it is desirable that such commissions should be created. I regret very much the very slow progress that they have made in recent years. Nonetheless, one faces a situation in which legal aid in this country is not recognised, I believe, as being of the importance that it should be. We are spending less than $20m a year on the legal aid apparatus. We are spending $7,000m or $8,000m on the area of health which is a very important area. We are spending something like $ 1,000m on defence. They are very big areas. 
However, to my mind legal aid is one of the most important areas because it guarantees- it should guarantee- that the citizen has equal rights before the law. That is one of the things of which we are proud and one of the things about which we speak occasionally but it is something which I am afraid we have not yet practised in this country. I do not think it is sufficient to say that because a pensioner is covered by legal aid that is a satisfactory situation. Figures were recently provided by Professor Henderson which relate to the poverty line. They are the latest figures which were released on 18 August 1978. Looking at these figures, one sees that an unemployed married couple with two children on the pension which was allowed before the Budgetfortunately it was increased- received $109.30. The poverty level shown by Professor Henderson is $121.44. That is the amount which they would need to be able to live reasonably. However, the Australian Legal Aid Office means test provides for a disposable income of S75. Of course, a person is not entitled to legal aid until his income is below $75. Therefore, it is seen that people on very low incomes are not receiving legal aid in this country. The same situation could be shown to apply to people who have more than two children and to single people. 
My contention is that legal aid in this country requires millions of dollars more to be spent on it so that the people who are on low incomes- not necessarily pensioners- and who have litigation which they need to pursue will be in a position to pursue that litigation and not have to say that they cannot do it because they cannot afford to run the risk and because they do not have the money to pay for lawyers. New guidelines were introduced recently by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  These guidelines make some changes to the situation. I think the most significant claim is that the maximum disposable income allowed for people receiving legal aid will rise from $40 a week to $52 a week. This brings the income up to that of a pensioner. Therefore it is hoped that pensioners will be able to receive legal aid. I think that that is one of the important aspects. The Attorney-General had this to say when announcing the guidelines: 
For some time I have been concerned that the operation of the means and needs guidelines of the Australian Legal Aid Office, which were fixed in 1976, has become increasingly severe. This has been because there have been rises in wages and in pension rates without changes in the guidelines. The result of this has been that many persons who would have been eligible for legal aid in 1976 are not now eligible, and legal aid is being refused persons in real need. 
The Attorney-General certainly recognises the need and the difficult situation which people are in at present. The guidelines endeavour to improve that situation to some degree. But they have been criticised already in this chamber. They do not really overcome the important position which the lack of legal aid in this country involves. 
One of the changes made in the guidelines was the removal of eligibility for aid in simple dissolution of marriage cases. I am speaking tonight mostly in relation to legal aid in the matrimonial area which constitutes about 80 per cent of the total of legal aid money spent in this country. I am concentrating on that area but I do not ignore the fact that legal aid is important also in other areas. It is expected that by removing simple divorce cases from legal aid in excess of $2m will be saved. This will be used in other legal aid areas. I think a case can be made for the removal of aid in this area. I think it is a fact that if no difficulty or ancillary problems arise, very often divorce proceedings can be handled without the intervention of a lawyer. In any event, this is perhaps one of the less needed areas of legal aid. 
One looks at other aspects of the provisions of the new guidelines somewhat dubiously. We know that today a court fee of $100 is payable to the Family Law Court. This originally was intended to be a payment towards the cost of legal aid. I do not think it has operated that way; the payment goes into revenue. Apart from the fact that those who obtain legal aid do not have to pay the fee of $100, people who want to escape the payment of this fee must show substantial hardship before they can do so. In this and some other areas of the guidelines it is necessary for people to demonstrate substantial hardship to registrars or to other authorities. I query the obligation put on people in this community to establish to an official this somewhat undignified criteria that they are in a state of substantial hardship. 
Other areas of the guidelines which really do not greatly vary the substantial overlay of legal aid have been criticised by the legal profession. I mention but one area- the provision that in future the cost of a solicitor travelling to and from a court and waiting at court will not be granted as legal aid. I will have more to say on the chaotic state of legal costs and the effect they have on citizens in the community. These provisions will have the substantial effect of saying to lawyers in rural areas or small country towns that they will not be able to charge for travelling to court. It will be all right for the city solicitor who may have several cases at court but a suburban or country lawyer will find that the business that he is engaged in will be much less economic than at present. He may well not engage in it, and the monopolisation of work may become much more substantial. 
-That is so. The abolition of payment for waiting time is a very significant and unfortunate change. It has been put to me that the scales of payment are very poor and contain many defects. The non-payment of waiting time would be all right for someone who is fortunate or someone who has many cases at court, but someone who has to wait around all day will not find this area an economic part of law. I am not concerned here to talk just for the benefit of the legal profession- law is something which I do not actually practise these days. I believe that if the new guidelines make members of the legal profession find that this field is uneconomic they will not practise in it. Therefore, the community will suffer a great deal of disadvantage due to the loss of the ability of people who might otherwise engage in this field. 
I have noted with some dismay the attitude expressed by many different people about the state of legal aid and the state of the guidelines provided at present. I believe that what some people say is true, unfortunately. I want to refer to a number of these statements. I suggest that the Government needs to look in a much harder light at legal aid and to make much better provision for it in future. The Law Council of Australia, in a short but 1 think very important statement in September after the Budget about the effect of the provisions of the Budget and the legal aid provisions on the legal profession, stated: 
At its meeting in Sydney this weekend, the Executive of the Law Council expressed its grave concern with the increasing number of people, many of them pensioners, now unable to obtain legal aid. 
The Law Council considers that legal aid must be adequately funded by both Federal and State governments. 
Whilst the profession, on its part, will continue to cooperate fully in the provision of legal aid, it is the responsibility of governments to provide proper funding which will fix the level of legal aid. 
The  President, Mr David  Ferguson, said that the Federal Government's budget allocation will not even maintain legal aid at the existing inadequate levels. 
The private legal profession has contributed its services either entirely free or at heavily discounted rates for many years because it regards the provision of legal aid as a vital need. 
The increasing contribution of the profession has not been matched by the Federal Government. 
I think it is important to realise that the Law Council of Australia is a non-political body representing lawyers in all States of Australia. The Council expressed its criticisms in measured but pretty strong terms. Likewise let me take another example. The Fitzroy Legal Service in my State of Victoria is a noted and excellent organisation which does an enormous amount of voluntary work for people and handles many legal aid applications. The Service stated that the position of legal aid is even more grave in Victoria where legal aid has come virtually to a standstill. The standstill, I think, has been overcome by some further action. Nonetheless, according to the description of the Fitzroy Legal Service, a 'desperate situation' exists in Victoria at present. The Fitzroy Legal Service stated that legal aid moneys had run out and that no money was left for the month of November. We know that the Government has made moneys available in the sense that it has stopped the situation arising of no money being left for a certain month because the allocation has been taken up already. 
But, as the Attorney-General said later, the Government found an amount of about $330,000 which was applied to cover the total backlog of 1,259 cases. The Attorney-General made this announcement in his statement of 22 October. That situation improves the position to an extent. I have had brought to my attention many cases of people who were in desperate need of legal aid to proceed immediately with applications to the court but who were not able to do so and had to wait for a month or six weeks before the matter could even be considered. The situation has been improved a little but not to the extent that is necessary. Likewise, the  President  of the Law Institute of Victoria in a letter written to me on 20 October of this year said that in its estimate the problem of the growing list of people wanting legal aid is increasing with between 600 and 800 applicants waiting for aid. By the end of October that number was expected to be 1,000 and to grow later to 1,500 or 1,800. He said: 
The problem has been aggravated I understand by a rapid increase in applications. I have been unable to obtain the figures to verify this but 1 am told by people working in the legal aid field that the number of applications for aid to both the Australian Legal Aid Office and the State Legal Aid Committee is much higher than in the past. The cause of this is not known but it has been suggested that the problems of the current economic situation, particularly large scale unemployment had much to do with it. I am informed that the number of applications to the legal aid Committee- 
That is the one run by the profession-  increased 25 per cent this month. This is attributed partly to the growing need for aid. 

 His council then expressed the hope that a legal aid commission will be established soon in Victoria. I think that the situation was at its worst in Victoria. To an extent it has been ameliorated by this provision of moneys or by the taking up of the backlog, but I do not think that means that there has been any substantial increase- perhaps none at all- in the total amount of money being applied to legal aid over the year. I think that the situation becomes more complicated when one considers another aspect of it. I have mentioned briefly the fact that the legal costs position of lawyers in Australia dealing with these matters is chaotic and has not been changed for some years. This is not a new matter so far as I am concerned because when I made a speech on the Family Law Amendment Bill on 25 August 1977 I spoke about the confusion that was arising then in regard to the costs regulations which in their original formulation had mistakes and which needed redrafting. I said then: 
The position is that people who practise in the family law jurisdiction do not know what their situation is at the present time, what their entitlements are, and their clients do not know what are the amounts that should be charged. I understand that those redrafts- 
That is the redraft of the rules-  were carried out. They were to be gazetted, the Sydney practitioners believed, in December of last year. 1 understand that they have not been gazetted. I have not seen them. I hope that I am wrong in saying that. 
I was not wrong. I went on to say: 
But 1 wonder why this matter has not been given the clarification which is needed by the people who practise, and who are specialists in the family law jurisdiction. 
In reply to me on that occasion  Senator Durack,  the Attorney-General, said: 

 Senator Missen also raised the question of the regulations concerning costs. I understand that the matter of costs will be incorporated in new regulations dealing with other matters which have a bearing on costs and may perhaps result in a saving of costs, lt is hoped that these will bc gazetted probably in October this year. 
That was said in October 1 977 and they have not yet been gazetted. The situation is that the original scales of costs under which solicitors were expected to operate have remained the same since 1975. They were then inadequate, uncertain and vague and they have not been replaced since that time. They are described as totally inadequate by solicitors who have written to me. Not only do they not cover the real situations which are found in family law practice but also they do not take into account that the legal profession has been accepting a reduction of about 8 per cent per annum by reason of inflation over each of these years. Some lawyers have said that when they take legal aid cases they are paid about 90 per cent of the total bill, but that amount is depreciating and losing value year after year and there has not been any real improvement in the situation. 
Another solicitor in Melbourne has written to me drawing my attention to what he describes as the total shambles of the family law costs regulations. He has drawn my attention to the case of Schulsinger in which  Mr Justice  Fogarty, a judge of the Family Court in Melbourne, had to point out that the costs scales did not apply to party and party taxations but only to taxations between a solicitor and his client. In other words, he came to the conclusion that there was not an appropriate scale to cover that area of costs and that there is thus no scale of costs directly applicable to a party/party taxation. The Court will need to give appropriate directions'. In other words, we have a chaotic situation affecting a profession which remains uncured in November 1978, to which I drew attention about 14 months ago and which then had been in a state of near completion for some time. I do not think that is good enough. When one takes into account that we have new guidelines and new costs but that we do not provide proper scales of costs the situation is highly unsatisfactory. The profession is very considerably up in arms about it. I believe that the position is quite serious. That the present guidelines are so regarded by the profession has been drawn to my attention very closely by the  President  of the Family Law Lawyers in Victoria,  Mr Ian  Kennedy, who has told me that the situation is not that 90 per cent of the costs are being paid but that the costs themselves have really greatly reduced because of not only the inflation to which I referred but also various other things which are not included in them. When one sees in the guidelines which the Attorney-General laid down a figure of $3 12 as a composite fee in a one-day trial and when one considers that this may be a custody proceeding that has gone on for a year or a matter in which many affidavits are prepared and in which many attendances at court may take place, it is no wonder that I am told now that many of the solicitors who are practising in this jurisdiction are threatening to withdraw from it because they say that it is entirely uneconomic for them and that they cannot continue to carry the burden. The existing scales have been out of date for years. The proposed new scales have never been gazetted. What is really needed is something which logically describes the sort of work which is done by members of the legal profession and which does not fix lump sums with which they are expected to comply. That is one aspect which I have suggested is important and which has not been dealt with. 
In addition to this there are other problems in respect to legal aid which nobody seems to have looked into or tried to cure. People have come to me in situations where one party to litigation has been granted legal aid. Perhaps that person may be fortunate and come within the $40 a week guidelines because he or she has heavy mortgage commitments and other things which bring down his or her income. That person is entitled to legal aid but the other party, the husband or the wife, is not entitled to it. Thus there is a great tendency, which is constantly seen and referred to by lawyers, for the party who is entitled to legal aid to find every reason to pursue every remedy and every delaying tactic, to go to court for an application over access, to be difficult about access and to create problems in the knowledge that he or she may drive the other party into bankruptcy and destroy the assets of the other party who has not legal aid. Unfortunately, this is the situation, although it does not mean that we should not have legal aid. Of course we should, but what it does mean is that there has to be a close examination to ensure that legal aid does not become a weapon of injustice exercised by one party against another party who because of additional assets or additional income is not entitled to receive legal aid. This is another area which I have raised because it is an area which seems to have been just overlooked and ignored and not one in which the Government, I think, has paid adequate attention. 
There are, I believe, many things that should concern us in this area, but above all I return to the aspect which I dealt with in the first place. I believe that one of the essential parts of legal aid is to give to the citizen an equal opportunity or some ability to use the law to enable him to go to the courts and be able to litigate. Unfortunately this area has become very costly and has been put beyond the range of the ordinary citizen. We are concerned not merely with the person who is a pensioner; we are concerned in this area with people who have lowish incomes and those who have ordinary incomes who find that they cannot afford the very expensive costs of trying to get justice in law. Unfortunately these people are deprived of the opportunity to have legal aid and we have not yet picked up this burden. We have provided a relatively small amount for legal aid in a huge Budget this year but the allocation for legal aid has not grown; in fact, it has fallen back a little. I want to say, as I have said before in this chamber, that I believe that injustice is being done. I believe that legal aid is a very important area which is being neglected and one which is not being looked at thoroughly by governments or by members of the Parliament. I hope therefore that it will get further attention and I hope we will develop a sense of justice and a desire to see that these things are remedied. That is the reason I have raised this matter tonight. 
I claim to have been misrepresented. I speak as  Chairman  of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. In view of the allegation which has just been made by  Senator Georges  I think it should be said that of course he is a member of the Committee and of course the Committee had before it this Ordinance among others. The Committee had fourth method, a fourth criterion. 
It still has it. In some circumstances it can certainly recommend that a matter be dealt with by Act of Parliament rather than by ordinance. The Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs has recommended the circumstances in which this should happen and I mentioned that in my speech tonight. Of course it would have been possible. The Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee recommendations would have been entirely against the course that  Senator Georges  suggested.  Senator Hamer  asked a question about this matter. If he or others wanted to raise the matter they could have done so. On the other hand, it would be highly unlikely that such an action would have been taken by the Committee. It would then have been a matter merely of bringing before the Senate a recommendation to disallow the Ordinance on the sole ground which  Senator Georges  suggested, that is, that the matter should have been dealt with by Act of Parliament instead of by ordinance. 
This is a matter which has social consequences.  Senator Georges'  suggestion was raised at a late stage in this debate. No doubt it is confusing to honourable senators. It is a matter that he could have raised at the meeting of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. The Committee was certainly not advised by its legal adviser in any way to make such an objection. Other than in a question by  Senator Hamer,  it was not raised by any member ofthe Committee. It did not come before the Senate as a recommendation.  Senator Georges  is confusing the issue tonight. 
I speak in support of  Senator Ryan  's motion and in support of the amendment moved by  Senator Evans.  I also give notice that I will support the foreshadowed motion to be moved by  Senator Rae.  I believe that this is an important matter but it is not for us to canvass or try to determine today any general debate or general argument on the subject of abortion. I believe this debate is important because of the responsibilities which we have as members of this Parliament at present to make certain decisions with respect to the Australian Capital Territory and which unfortunately are made at present by the Government in a way which I believe is contrary to undertakings which it has given in the past. I believe that we are obliged today to consider the report which the members of the Legislative Assembly adopted, which I think is a considered and careful report. It should be carefully considered by the Senate. I think also that one must recognise that there is a decision of the Government in regard to this Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance which is not in accord with the recommendations of that Assembly. The Ordinance seems to endeavour to pick up one or two of those recommendations and rejects, greatly to its detriment, the other 45 recommendations that have been made. 
We have heard reference today to the originality of the contribution which  Senator Tate  made to the debate. Insofar as it was delivered in a calm and deliberate way and was argued reasonably. I pay tribute to that aspect; but that is as far as I go because the honourable senator said that the Ordinance can be acted on already, that under it it is possible for clinics to be set up inside hospital grounds. I do not accept that view. Of course it is a possible view, as  Senator Evans  pointed out, but it is one upon which I think no one should rely. The second basis ofthe honourable senator's argument very substantially was that there is power for the Capital Territory Health Commission to go ahead and set up a clinic of its own volition. In doing that he ignores the terms of the Health Commission Ordinance which set up that Commission. 
It is interesting to note that just recently a new amendment to that Ordinance was tabled. In the amendment there is no alteration of one salient section, which was then contained in section 7 (2) of the Ordinance but now has been transferred to section 7 (4). It sets out the functions of the Commission. The function of the Commission used to be to conduct hospitals; it is now to provide and conduct health services. The Ordinance defines health services in various ways. 
It is interesting- I say this in passing- that the conduct of hospitals is no longer referred to as being within the functions. I am a little concerned about that and I would like to know why that is so. 
I know that section 22 in the original Ordinance mentions hospitals conducted by the Commission. I think that probably the curiosity of this Ordinance is covered indirectly in that way. After the Ordinance sets out the functions- diagnostic, treatment, rehabilitation services and so forth- it goes on to state: 
The Commission shall perform its functions in accordance with any direction given by the Minister. 
The Minister and the Government have made clear that they do not intend in any way to contribute to the fact that an abortion clinic is to be set up in the grounds of a hospital. Whatever may be the functions of the Commission, they are circumscribed and contained within the powers of the Minister. I am afraid that is no help to this Senate so far as the argument of  Senator Tate  is concerned. 
Of course it may fight its own battle but it is a battle which we know it will lose. It has already been announced in advance that it will lose. 
If the honourable senator did so, I certainly apologise. I did not hear him say that and I thought I was listening carefully. In so far as that argument is concerned, I say that it is an argument of no particular worth because it is clear that the Commission will not be permitted to do that. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has made his position quite clear. The situation so far as the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance is concerned is, I think, most importantly and firstly, that undertakings were given by the Minister in March 1977 that the Legislative Assembly would be allowed to decide what should be done in this matter. This is not a matter determining self-government. Self-government may come, of course, as a result of a referendum in a couple of weeks' time.  Senator Sheil  spent some time on this matter and said that this issue now debated would force self-government on the Australian Capital Territory. That is not the question here. The question is that the Minster for Health,  Mr Hunt,  in 1977, not once but several times, made it clear that it was expected that the Government would allow the Australian Capital Territory, through its representatives, to decide these matters. It is worth reminding honourable senators that on 10 March of last year a question about free standing abortion clinics was asked. I do not think that question has been referred to. The Minister then said: 
As this issue has far-reaching social consequences for the people of the Australian Capital Territory, I feel it should be discussed and debated by the elected members of the Legislative Assembly in Canberra. Until sufficient time is given to enable these matters to be appropriately debated by people at the local level and all the health and legal aspects are given appropriate consideration, PSI - 
That is, Population Services International (Australasia) Ltd-  would be very wise to defer the opening of its clinic. 
That appears on page 77 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 10 March 1977. A week later another question about the Canberra abortion clinic was asked by  Mr Stewart.  On that occasion, among other things, the Minister said: 
The Government has asked the Assembly to give urgent consideration to both the political and social consequences and aspects of ps i'S intended operations in Canberra and the desirability of free-standing abortion clinics in Canberra. The Government firmly believes that the Legislative Assembly should devote its attention as urgently as possible to this matter. 
This covers a very wide ambit. It was publicly said by the Minister in answer to the question that the political and social consequences of the intended operations were to be looked at by the Assembly. He went on to say: 
I reiterate my public advice to Population Services International that it would not be wise to pre-empt the debate and final decisions - . 
I emphasise the words 'final decisions'-  of the elected representatives of Canberra in the Legislative Assembly. I have heard the reports to which the honourable member has referred. In view of the legal, health and local community attitudes, I think that it would be wise to heed my warning at this stage. 
So it is not just a matter of what  Mr Hunt  said on the third occasion, that is, a little later- on 24 March- when he gave the answer which was quoted by  Senator Ryan  in her speech the other day and by other honourable senators today. In the course of that answer he said again on two occasions that it was for the Assembly to take decisions in respect of the matter. 
Unfortunately  Senator Walters  is not in the chamber at the moment. During the course of her speech she made great play of the fact that this issue was not an election issue for the Assembly when it was last elected. I am saying, in a sense, that members of this chamber and of this Parliament went to the electors and were elected last year and therefore people are entitled to say that it was an election issue insofar as we are concerned. They could say that a Minister, acting no doubt with the authority of the Government, said on those occasions in the Parliament that it was for the Australian Capital Territory to make its decisions in regard to this matter. 
-Oh, no. The Government's decision to put in a permanent Ordinance was not made until this year. The Government had put in temporary Ordinances while this matter was being considered by the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. The permanent Ordinance came in during June or July of this year. It is the matter which is complained of now. Of course, the fact is that the Assembly and the electors were entitled to act upon the fact that we had given these undertakings to the Assembly. I believe that we had rightly given them because in all honesty it was desirable that social questions of this importance should be determined essentially by the members of the Assembly. 
I point out in regard to this tremendously important question of the respect that should be paid to the Assembly's view that the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs had to consider this type of problem when it dealt with the Evidence (Australian Capital Territory) Bill 1972. The Committee reported in November of last year, just before the elections. That is a report on which the Government has not yet commented. In the course of making a report on a Bill which was of concern to the Territory the Committee spoke of the status of Territory legislation and the type of circumstances under which such legislation ought to be carried out by Acts of this Parliament or alternatively by ordinances. One of the things that was certainly recommended unanimously in that report was that matters of this nature or, as we put it, legislation of a particular territory which  is  socially innovative or affects fundamental rights and liberties of the kind referred to in certain paragraphs of the report should be done by ordinance. The Committee went on to speak of" the situation in regard to Acts of Parliament. In regard to situations in which it was decided that an Act of Parliament, not an ordinance, was called for and that Act of Parliament would cover more than one Territory, we said. 
While there is no legal obligation on the Australian Parliament to consult the people of these Territories for their views in respect of Acts ofthe Commonwealth Parliament, it is felt that there is a strong moral obligation for the views of the representative councils to be sought. 
That Committee of this Senate recommended that an ordinance or Act of Parliament which affects a Territory should be referred to the assembly of that Territory and that that assembly's views about it ought to be considered, and considered very seriously. 
Reference has already been made to the fact that the views of the people on this subject have been sought and that polls have been conducted to determine the opinion of the people. I have received thousands of letters in respect of this matter. A number of those letters have contained one of the pieces of evasion and misrepresentation which applies in regard to this whole question of abortion. They keep telling me that only 3 1 per cent of the people agree with abortion on demand and of course, they ignore the results of the rest of the poll. The last poll 1 could find on this subject was a Gallup poll of 26 July of this year. It shows that the opinion in 1978- a rising opinion, I might say- is that abortion on demand is the view of 31 per cent of the population. But one must go on and find out what the rest of the population thinks as the poll claims. In the case of abortion in instances of exceptional hardship the figure is 23 per cent. Other results were: If the mother's health is in danger, 22 per cent; if the mother's life is in serious danger, 12 per cent; and not in any circumstance, 9 per cent; and no opinion, 3 per cent. I say to those dozens and dozens of people who have decided to tell me that only 31 per cent favour one view that it should be realised that there are many different views in this community on the whole subject and there are, of course, many people who take the view that abortion is called for in many circumstances. In fact, it appears that the overwhelming majority holds that view. Of course, we know that two tests of opinion are contained in the very detailed and considered report of the Standing Committee on Education and Health of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. One of the questions asked was: Do you believe action should be taken to liberalise the provision of abortion services in Australian Capital Territory hospitals? That is a fairly specific question. 
-Yes, if they know. I have the feeling that the public of Australia is fairly familiar with these matters. We are not the only people in the community who have knowledge on this subject. We must assume that our constituents also have some knowledge of it. In answer to that question 66.61 per cent of the people polled said yes and 27.2 per cent said no. Another survey which was an Australian National Opinion Polls survey, also asked the question: Do you think Canberra should or should not have clinics where doctors carry out abortions under suitable medical conditions? A total of 70 per cent said yes and 24 per cent said no. I am not saying that such surveys give an exact indication of the feeling generally and I am not necessarily saying that they tell enough for us to make a final decision, but they are so overwhelming and so definite that I think we ought to take some heed of them and realise that an assembly that gives an opinion, expresses a view and reports on the basis thereof needs to be respected. 
Senators from Victoria and, I think, New South Wales have received thousands of letters about this matter. I think there is something sad about the campaign that we have seen from some people on this matter. A number of the letters show feeling and consideration. Many people have written about their own views. But thousands of cards have just been signed. No doubt many cards have been put forward at the request of religious leaders of one persuasion. It is very sad that a number of the cards and letters that have been sent to us are stereotyped. 
Yes, there are roneoed ones as well. I think the honourable senator is trying to indicate to me that some of the letters received by honourable senators on the other side of the argument are also roneoed. 
-Yes, that is right. My figures are that the letters from people in the Australian Capital Territory are now about evened up. 
No, I have my own bar.rowloads of them. I have written many answers to letters which were written to me. I have told people what my view on this subject is and I have received another wave of letters in response. But I do wish that people in other States who want to tell the people of the Australian Capital Territory how to conduct their moral lives and how to approach the particular problem of abortion in the 
Canberra community would leave it to the people involved. It is not for us or for people outside the Territory to tell them what to do. 
I agree with that, as does  Mr Lusher. Senator Puplick  read out to honourable senators the interesting remark of  Mr Lusher,  who takes a strong view on this matter, that we should not be telling the people of the Territory what to do. It is a pity that the matter has been left with us at the moment. But if anyone has to deal with the moral standards of the community, then it should be this Parliament rather than the Executive of the Parliament, the Cabinet, or by Ministers or any one Minister. If anyone has to deal with this matter, let it be the Parliament. Let it be these Houses, which under Act of Parliament have been given the job to vote for or against an ordinance. I certainly intend to vote for the disallowance of this Ordinance. If the Ordinance is allowed to stand the consequences are very clear. They were made clear by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  when he wrote to honourable senators on 2 November 1 978 in the following terms: 
That report - 
That is, the report of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly Standing Committee on Education and Health-  made 47 recommendations; the Government has not agreed to implement 45 of those recommendations which proposed the establishment of an abortion clinic by the Capital Territory Health Commission, the procedures for its operation and the setting-up of counselling services on abortion, contraception and sex education. 
The Minister made it very clear that he does not intend to have any of those developments. So it is clear that a vote to continue this Ordinance forestalls further action, and the Legislative Assembly of the Australian Capital Territory can really expect no further action by the Government. The Government has been quite open about this. But if there were to be a disallowance of the Ordinance I do not believe there would be any vacuum as has been suggested by some honourable senators and threatened by others. I believe that the Government of this country is a responsible government. I believe it will recognise that people are telling it that action ought to be taken on the clinics of the Australian Capital Territory; that there is in the Ordinance before us a sweeping decision not only not to allow private clinics but also not to allow any clinics at all. I believe this is not in accordance with the wishes of the people of the Territory. For these reasons and in the compass within which this matter comes, I believe it is my duty to vote for the motion as has been moved and I certainly intend to do so. 
I rephrase the question and ask the Minister whether he sees matters concerning the responsibility of the Government arising from the decisions at the Australian Labor Party conference last weekend? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. It concerns the Commonwealth funded Special Youth Employment Training program. Is the Minister aware of reports that a sizeable number of employers are taking advantage of the program by using the $45 a week Government subsidy to hire cheap labour while giving no real training to the young? Do the Department's records indicate whether substantial numbers of youths employed under the program have been laid off immediately on expiration of the subsidy? Does the Minister agree that this criticism has brought into question whether the program is intended to provide a partial solution to the employment problem, or whether it is simply acting to decrease temporarily the level of jobless school leavers? Will the Minister take steps to ensure that the Special Youth Employment Training Program is not misused in the future? 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. I refer to the negotiations that have been proceeding for some considerable time now for the transfer to the Commonwealth of power with regard to family law in the areas where there is divided jurisdiction as a result of High Court litigation in the last few years. Can the Attorney-General tell us whether there have been negotiations or any indications by the States recently that they are now prepared to transfer the necessary powers to the Commonwealth? 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development relates to the announcement by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development on Tuesday, 14 November, that the Commonwealth will reduce its grants to voluntary conservation groups from a $2 for $1 basis to a $1 for $1 basis. I ask the Minister: Is it true that this cut in government support for conservation groups will cause a number of groups, which currently receive funds, to receive no money in the future? Does he agree with the statement of  Dr Geoffrey  Mosley, the Director of the Australian Conservation Foundation, that in 1979 approximately only three environmental organisations will be able to operate under the new guidelines? Does this reduction in expenditure, along with this year's cut of $50,000 in funds for voluntary conservation groups which, I understand, particularly applies to the Australian Conservation Foundation, represent a change in the Government's attitude on the preservation and conservation of the Australian National Estate? 
-On behalf of  Senator Hamer  I present the following petition from 2 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That there have been indications that a value added tax or a retail turnover tax is being considered as a means of collecting revenue. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should- 
Take such action as it can to prevent such a tax being introduced because such a tax will increase the administrative burden already existing on small businesses and because it will further increase costs and add to inflation. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question, to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, refers to the threat that the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation Draft Declaration on the Mass Media poses to the freedom of the world's Press. I ask the Minister: What position will the Commonwealth Government adopt at the forthcoming UNESCO general conference to ensure that the more unacceptable sections of the draft, which sanction government interference in the activities of the mass media, are amended? 
-I seek leave to make a statement in relation to the three notices of motion standing in my name for the disallowance of regulations and by-laws. 
Leave granted. 
-These three notices of motion were given as a result of inquiries by the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. In each case the notices of motion were given when the time for giving notice was about to expire, to allow the Committee time to conclude its inquiries. 
The first notice of motion relates to regulation 4 of the Historic Shipwrecks Regulations. The Committee considered that this regulation unduly trespassed upon the rights and liberties of the citizen by not providing the defence of reasonable excuse or some other similar safeguard in relation to the offences under the regulation. The Committee's opinion on the regulations was fully set out in its sixty-third report, tabled on 24 October 1978, and I invite honourable senators to read that report. The regulation provides that it is an offence, punishable by a fine of $1,000 or imprisonment for one year, or both, to bring into a protected zone, declared for the purpose of protecting a historic shipwreck, any equipment for diving, salvage or recovery operations or any explosives, instruments or tools the use of which would be likely to damage a historic shipwreck, or to trawl, dive or engage in any underwater activity in a protected zone, or to moor or use ships within a protected zone. The Committee considered that a person might enter a protected zone- and it was noted that there is no provision for marking the zones in any wayunknowingly, or by accident, or for the purpose of assisting vessels or persons in difficulties in a protected zone. In these and similar circumstances a person charged with entering a protected zone contrary to the regulation ought to be entitled to an acquittal by the court, and the court ought to be able to take these matters into consideration. 
The Committee noted that the Historic Shipwrecks Act does contain certain defences to prosecutions under the regulations, but the Committee did not consider that those defences covered the circumstances with which the Committee was concerned. In correspondence with the Committee the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  raised a legal doubt whether the regulations could add to the defences provided in the Act. This matter is fully set out in the Committee 's report. The Committee has now received from the Minister for Home Affairs an undertaking that the regulation will be amended as soon as possible to overcome the objections raised by the Committee, and that to remove any doubt about the validity of the amended regulation an appropriate amendment of the Act will be sought. The Committee has agreed to accept this undertaking and not to proceed with its recommendation that the regulation be disallowed. 
The second notice of motion relates to a provision in the Schools Commission regulations. This provision conferred upon the Minister for Education a discretion to determine transfer allowances for members of the Schools Commission. The Committee could not see any reason for this discretion, as allowances of this kind are normally paid in accordance with entitlements established by objective criteria. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has agreed with the Committee that the discretion is unnecessary and has given an undertaking that the regulations will be amended so as to remove that discretion. The Committee accepts that assurance. 
The third notice of motion relates to a provision added to the Telecommunications (General) By-laws. This provision is to the effect that where the Telecommunications Commission is of the opinion that a telex installation is being excessively used the Commission may require the subscriber to install an additional service or to cancel the existing service. The Committee considered that this power, vested in the Commission, which effects the rights of subscribers, ought to be subject to some form of review. At the instigation of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley),  the Telecommunications Commission has now amended the bylaws so that the Commission's decisions under this provision will be subject to review by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. The Committee considers that this amendment properly safeguards the rights of subscribers. 
In view of the action taken by the responsible Ministers and the decisions of the Committee in relation to these matters, I now withdraw notices of motion 1, 2 and 3 standing in my name under Business of the Senate. The Committee appreciates the co-operation extended to it by the responsible Ministers in relation to these matters. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the reported death of a Queensland Army captain, James William 
Hardy, who died while fighting black nationalist guerrillas in Rhodesia. I ask: Has the death of Captain Hardy been confirmed? Has it been ascertained whether he was recruited in Australia to fight as a member of the Rhodesian Army? Is the Minister concerned about reports that approximately 200 Australian citizens are fighting for the Rhodesian Army and that the recruiting campaign is going on all the time in Sydney and Brisbane? Will he detail what action is being taken under the Crimes (Foreign Incursions and Recruitment) Act 1977 to ensure that the recruitment of mercenaries in Australia is brought to an end? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
How many East Timorese currently residing in Australia have applied to return to East Timor under the family reunion agreement made by the Australian and Indonesian Governments. 
How many East Timorese currently residing in Portugal have: (a) applied to come to Australia; (b) been refused entry into Australia in the last five years and for what reasons; (c) applied to enter Australia and are awaiting processing. 
How many persons evacuated from East Timor to Portugal since November 1975 have subsequently been admitted to Australia. 
Have any East Timorese currently residing in Australia nominated relatives in Hong Kong, Macau and/or Taiwan to be admitted into Australia. If so, (a) how many have applied; and (b) how many have been admitted to Australia. 
Has the Australian Embassy in Hong Kong been directed not to grant visitors' visas to East Timorese wishing to visit Australia. 
Were East Timorese residing in Australia provided with authority forms by the Commonwealth Government early in 1976 to enable their relatives in Timor to enter Australia. If so: (a) for what length of time were these forms valid; (b) did any Timorese come to Australia on the basis of the forms; and (c) what consideration has been given to extending the time limit of the forms. 
Has the Commonwealth Government made a decision on how many of 2,668 persons, nominated in April 1977 by East Timorese residing in Australia to come from East Timor to Australia, meet the criteria for entry into Australia. If so, 
what are the specific criteria that the Government has employed; (b) how many persons have met the criteria. 
What is the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs ' assessment of the number of East Timorese likely to come to Australia in 1978, 1979 and 1980 respectively. 
How many of the East Timorese currently residing in Portugal who have applied for permanent residence in Australia have no relatives in Australia. 
How many of these have been granted entry permits. 
Has the Commonwealth Government, at any stage, relaxed the health criteria for East Timorese, currently residing in Portugal who have applied to enter Australia. If so, what has been the nature of that relaxation. 
I  present the following petition from 93 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members ofthe Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Federal Government exert Diplomatic pressure on the Soviet Authorities to secure release from detention of a Soviet citizen  Mr Igor  Ogurtsov, a Graduate of the University of Leningrad, who was sentenced to seven years gaol, eight years hard labour and five years internal exile- a total of twenty years, in accordance with Articles 64a and 72 of the USSR Criminal Code. 

 Mr Ogurtsov, now age 40, has already served eleven years of his sentence and is currently held in Concentration Camp No. VS 389.35- -Permskaya Oblast, Stanitsa Vsehsviatskaya. 
His health has deteriorated to the extent, that he is not expected to live long enough to see his release from detention. 

 Mr Ogurtsov 's only 'crime' is, that he is a Christian, and has participated in a discussion group on the future of a Christian-Democratic System in Russia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to reports in the Australian Press that Jacob Prai and Otto Ondawame two refugees from West Irian who have been imprisoned in Papua New Guinea, may seek politicial asylum in Australia. Will the Minister advise, firstly, whether they are about to be released from imprisonment in Port Moresby; secondly, whether the United Nations is at present seeking a third country to grant political asylum to them; thirdly, whether, if requested, political asylum will be granted to them in Australia; and, finally, whether in the event of asylum not being granted in Australia or another country, the Australian Government agrees that their lives may be in serious danger? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
1 ) What information is available concerning the present situation of  Dr Subandrio,  the former Foreign Minister of Indonesia. 
Has  Dr Subandrio  ever been charged with offences or been brought to trial by the Indonesian authorities at any time since 1965. 
Is he now imprisoned or in detention. If so: (a) where; and (b) over what period has he been so imprisoned or detained. 
Has the Australian Government made any representations to the Indonesian Government seeking the release of 

 Dr Subandrio from imprisonment or detention, or that he soon be brought to fair trial. If so, when. 
I continue my statement on the report of the Publications Committee. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development who, on 26 October 1978, stated that statistics recently prepared by his Department 'emphasised the need for a vigorous approach to petroleum conservation'. In the light of this statement, will the Minister indicate to the Senate what action the Commonwealth Government has taken to assist the oil rerefining industry in Australia, an industry that recycles certain used petroleum products which otherwise would be dumped or burned? Does the Minister agree that the re-refining of lubricating oil is an important aspect of Australia's effort to conserve its fuel supplies? 
I present two reports from the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on scrutiny of Bills and delegation of parliamentary authority respectively. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
-by leave-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
These two reports are being tabled simultaneously because their central recommendation is the same, namely, that a joint parliamentary committee, to be called the 'joint committee on scrutiny of Bills', should be established to maintain a watching brief on all Bills introduced into the Parliament so as to highlight those provisions which have an impact on persons either by interfering with their rights or by subjecting them to undue delegations of power. While the terms of reference of our inquiry into scrutiny of Bills called for us to assess whether or not it was desirable and practicable to establish the kind of parliamentary committee which we have ultimately recommended, it is clear that the problems identified in our delegation of parliamentary authority inquiry would have prompted us to recommend such a committee in any event. In assessing the need for such a committee we noted that many Bills come before the Parliament which contain provisions that: Significantly interfere with personal rights and liberties; delegate powers which, arguably, should not be delegated at all; delegate powers to affect rights, liberties and obligations without providing an opportunity for the exercise of those powers to be reviewed either by the Parliament itself or by an independent body; or delegate powers to impose obligations without any clearly defined guidance as to who is to impose them, upon whom and in which circumstances. 
We commented in our scrutiny of Bills report that such provisions may well be the product of conscious and deliberate Government decision and, as a result, may have been extensively debated. But very often these provisions are not necessarily central to the policy objectives of the Government, do not as a result gain especial prominence, and in the rush of legislation tend to slip through the Parliament without full debate or any debate at all. There is, as a consequence, a need to maintain a watching brief in respect of these types of provisions. Whilst the Parliament can never hope to foresee and provide for every contingency, we believe that it can do a good deal to implement procedures to supervise the administrative decision-making process and to strengthen the position of the individual. The establishment of the joint committee on scrutiny of Bills would do just that. 
We have recommended that the scrutiny committee be a joint committee to enable consideration of all Bills as soon as they are introduced into the Parliament, regardless of the House into which they are introduced first, and to enable members of both Houses properly to fulfill their obligations in respect of legislative scrutiny. To facilitate its work we recommended that it be a small committee and stated our preference for an eight-member committee, membership of which should be equally divided between the Senate and the House of Representatives. In order to ensure that time will usually be made available for the Committee to perform its task, while not impeding urgent Bills, we recommended a mechanism which would require the Government to suspend Standing Orders on any occasion on which it wished to have a Bill proceed through all stages in both Houses within four sitting days of its introduction into the Parliament without awaiting the report of the joint committee. In the event of such suspension of Standing Orders the committee would be empowered to continue its scrutiny and report to both Houses notwithstanding passage of the Bill, by the Parliament and receipt of the royal assent 
In our delegation of parliamentary authority report we noted that for practical purposes there are no legal limits on the power of parliament to delegate its legislative power. Nor is there any legal limit on Parliament's power to confer administrative authority, and other forms of power short of legislative power, provided that such conferring is otherwise within the Commonwealth's range of constitutional powers. It is, therefore, important that Parliament exercise its powers carefully and devise its own procedures as to what are proper delegations of power. The Committee, in its report on delegation of parliamentary authority, identified three forms of delegation which merit Parliament's particular attention. We have described them as: 
Inappropriate delegations, which are those delegations which, by virtue of the subject matter involved, should not be delegated at all; uncontrolled delegations, which are those delegations as to which insufficient provision has been made for scrutiny by the Parliament or review by a judicial or quasi-judicial body of the action taken under the delegated power; and insufficiently defined delegations, which are those delegations vesting discretionary authority as to which the extent of the discretionary power or the guidance given as to the manner of its exercise are imprecise. 
In addition to these major aspects of delegation the Committee also considered questions of parliamentary control as they relate to special appropriations and to the creation of statutory authorities outside the framework of ministerial departments. While these matters go beyond the compass of the proposed joint committee, the terms of reference which we have formulated for the joint committee cover the major aspects of delegation highlighted in the delegation report. We recommended that the joint committee on scrutiny of Bills should be established with the following terms of reference: 
To examine the clauses of all Bills introduced into the Parliament for report as to whether they, by express words or otherwise: 
trespass unduly on personal rights and liberties 
make rights, liberties and obligations unduly dependent upon insufficiently denned administrative powers or non-reviewable administrative decisions; or 
inappropriately delegate legislative power or insufficiently subject its exercise to parliamentary scrutiny. 
We believe that, if our substantial recommendations are drafted, the new joint committee on scrutiny of Bills will add a valuable facility in ensuring the real control by Parliament over legislation which may endanger the rights and liberties of the subject or create undue delegations of power. The Committee acknowledges the original initiative and continued interest of  Senator Chaney  in raising the issue of scrutiny of Bills in the Senate. 
The completion of these reports and their tabling before the end of this session have been the cause of considerable pressure on the time and energies of the Committee and staff. My Liberal colleagues will support me in making particular reference to the skills and stamina of  Senator Evans  and  Senator Tate,  whose valuable contributions to both reports, particularly the legal aspects of them, have been outstanding. Added to their responsibilities in relation to our other current references, the Secretary of this Committee,  Mr Malcolm  Starr and other members of the Committee's staff have also given meticulous attention to these most important references and deserve the gratitude of the Senate. 
-I present the report of the Joint Committee on Publications on the Australian Government Publishing Service and its role in Commonwealth printing and publishing 1964-68 together with the  Hansard  transcript of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
This is the sixth special report presented to the Parliament by the Joint Committee on Publications since investigatory powers were conferred upon it by amendments to the Standing Orders in 1970. The inquiry into the Australian Government Publishing Service was initiated by the Committee since it felt that, after eight years of operation, it was timely for a review of AGPS activities, to take place. The Australian Government Publishing Service was established on the recommendation of the Joint Select Committee on Parliamentary and Government Publications 1964, often referred to as the Erwin Committee after its  Chairman,  the Honourable Dudley Erwin. Since it was anticipated that future oversight of AGPS activities, functions and responsibilities would be undertaken by the Joint Committee on Publications, the Committee determined that it was the appropriate authority to carry out such a review. 
Initially, the Committee was content to examine AGPS operations only. However, as the inquiry progressed, it became apparent that there was a need to broaden its scope to cover the part played by departments, statutory authorities and other bodies associated with the Commonwealth's responsibilities in printing and publishing. 

 -Mr President, I present the report from the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders on Queensland reserves. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
The Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee was charged with this reference following the passage of the Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-management) Bill in April 1978. The Bill was subjected to criticism and proposed amendments during its passage and was immediately restricted in its approach by the action of the Queensland Government in abolishing the Aurukun and Mornington Island Reserves. 
Our main objective in the course of this inquiry and in preparing this report has been to shed some light on some hitherto obscure aspects of the debate concerning the appropriate means of discharging the Commonwealth's obligations to Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders in Queensland. Our attention has been focussed on the constitutionality and effectiveness of the Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Selfmanagement) Act 1978. But in assessing the effectiveness of that legislation we have reached firm conclusions as to the scope of the constitutional powers of the Commonwealth in respect to Aborigines, the extent and variety of powers in respect to the acquisition of property and the constitutional requirements to provide 'just terms'. We have widely explored the range of possible options which are open to the Commonwealth in discharging its obligations. 
The Committee is of the opinion that the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-management) Act 1978 is within the constitutional competence of the Commonwealth Parliament. However, the Act is, for practical purposes, ineffective as a means of allowing Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders in Queensland to manage and control their own affairs and would need to be substantially amended if it were to provide such an effective basis for self-management. 
Since the amendment of the Constitution in 1967 to give the Commonwealth Parliament power to make laws with respect to Aboriginals, attempts have failed to achieve any co-operative arrangement with the Queensland Government regarding management and control of the affairs of Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders in that State. Furthermore, the current agreement in respect of local government arrangements cannot as yet be seen as an example of successful cooperation. Accordingly, the Committee assumes that co-operation between the Commonwealth and Queensland is not likely to provide a full and sufficient discharge of the Commonwealth 's obligations to Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders in Queensland and that some unilateral action by the Commonwealth is likely to be necessary. 
The report analyses in some detail the alternative legislation courses of action which are open to the Government and the financial implications of each, to the extent that it involves the compulsory acquisition of property interests. Close attention is paid to the various kinds of arrangements that are possible in respect of mineral rights- an area which has been the subject of much confusion and misunderstanding. The legislative courses open to the Government include: Various modes of control falling short of the acquisition of property interest; acquisition of freehold title with or without mineral right; acquisition of leasehold interest; acquisition of easement or profit a prendre; and acquisition of lesser forms of proprietary right, such as absolute or qualified right of exclusion, right of occupation, and absolute or qualified right of use and enjoyment. 
The Committee hopes that its analysis of these questions will clarify the issues and make it possible for the continuing debate on the best means of discharging the Commonwealth's responsibilities to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders to be conducted in future on a better informed basis. The Committee, in compiling this report, has had the valued assistance of relevant Commonwealth departments and a number of other persons, including  Dr Michael  Crommelin who advised the Committee. We believe that the report will add to the understanding by the Parliament and the people of the powers and specific responsibilities of the Commonwealth towards Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders and encourage a surer exercise of such powers and responsibilities. 
I present the sixth report of the Publications Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education, I refer to the recommendations of the Tertiary Education Commission, under the chairmanship of Professor Karmel, relating to the consideration of claims for government assistance to non-government business colleges and their students. Firstly, is the Government prepared to make the Karmel recommendations in respect of non-government business colleges available to the public and when will a decision be made on these recommendations? Secondly, is it a fact that the decisions of such colleges in fixing fees for 1 979 and the future of thousands of children proposing to undertake courses will be dependent upon such a decision? 
-by leave-As  Chairman  of the Senate Publications Committee, of which  Senator Georges  is now a member- a fact that he realised with pleasure yesterday- let me say that he will be pleased to see that his Committee as long as 14 months ago had got down to the particular aspect that is now worrying him. The Presiding Officers have taken practical steps to bring this matter into action.  Mr President,  I welcome very much, on behalf of the Committee, the initiative which you and  Mr Speaker  have taken and the action you have set out in the report. We feel that this will be of very great assistance to the operations of the Parliament. 
Perhaps I need say no more about the failure to present annual reports, which has been and continues to be a long-standing problem which needs action. Clearly, what you have indicated will bring it to the attention of the Senate, and the House of Representatives will have the same opportunity to see where statutory bodies fail to carry out their undertakings. We will not have to wait until the end of the year to do this. At the same time I draw attention to the fact that recommendation 4, which is not mentioned in the statement, was one in respect of which we as a Committee had in mind that as a follow-up the Committee would table in Parliament at the end of each session a return indicating which bodies had failed to carry out their undertakings. I suppose it is within the power of the Committee to do so. Now that you,  Mr President,  have indicated an order of procedure, I trust that the Committee will go ahead and table a return at the end of each session so that we will know which bodies are not complying with the undertakings given. 
Other recommendations call for action which we hope will be taken by the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney).  The parliamentary paper series is an important part of parliamentary equipment It records the various important reports that are made from time to time. It is important that the series be standardised and readily available to people. The Committee welcomes the initiatives which you,  Mr President,  and  Mr Speaker  have undertaken. We trust that they will lead to practical results. 
I support the legislation, which is not just the Trade Practices Amendment Bill (No. 2), to which  Senator Button  has just been referring, but also the Trade Practices Amendment Bill 1978. It is on some aspects of this Bill that I intend to speak. It contains some amendments to the law which are valuable. I do not propose to speak to the points to which  Senator Button  has addressed himself. I have no doubt that other speakers will do so. 
No, because I want to devote my time to another aspect. In any event someone else will doubtless speak on that aspect.  Senator Button  went perhaps a little further than he had intended and appeared to have given away trade practices legislation altogether. Perhaps he was saying that only the trade union movement should not, under any circumstances, be touched by trade practices legislation. If that is so I find it a curious concept and one which I certainly do not support. I believe that trade unions also should be subject to such legislation and I have no doubt that it will be understood by the public that this is what this Bill does. 
The part of the first Bill to which I want particularly to refer is that which brings into effect a law, which now will be applicable throughout the whole of Australia, relating to the creation of manufacturers' warranties. It is an important amendment to the law and means that justice will be given to the consumer who finds himself in a situation where there is something defective in goods that are sold to him. At the moment he can sue perhaps only the person who sold him the goods whereas the manufacturer who, in fact, is responsible for the inefficiency of the goods gets away scot-free and has done so for some years. This is an aspect of the law which I think it is important should be remedied. It is a matter about which this Parliament has had some concern and in recent years there have been reports on this subject. The Swanson Committee reported in favour of such national legislation and the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, whose report I tabled in this Parliament in December 1976, likewise reported in favour of legislation. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  in his second reading speech had this to say about those reports: 
Those reports considered that it is the manufacturer placing goods on the market in the first place who is largely responsible for the quality of the goods. Accordingly, it is sensible for the law to require manufacturers to be directly responsible for statutorily imposed standards in respect of the quality of those goods. 
The legislation we are discussing today, I think quite effectively, carries that into operation. 
I want to say two things and I will refer to the first very briefly. The course of debate on these Bills in the House of Representatives was interesting inasmuch as they were amongst the first Bills to be considered by the new legislation committees. There was a useful discussion with the Legislation Committee by members of the House of Representatives on the significance of these Bills and also on the amendments which arose in the course of that discussion. I think that it is useful that legislation committees are now an operating part of the House of Representatives. The second and more major point I wish to make is that what is now being carried into effect by this legislation is the very useful scheme of adopting statutorily created warranties which will be applicable to contracts. This will be in the interests of consumers. 
During the course of debate the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, the Honourable Wal Fife, produced a document which I think is very useful and ought to be incorporated in  Hansard  because it sets out the law reform provided in the ordinance which was the subject of the report by the Senate Committee and the reform which is included in this Bill. However, there are some differences between them. I think that it would be useful if this document, which I have shown to the Opposition and of which, of course, the Minister is aware, were incorporated in  Hansard.  I seek leave to incorporate the document. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

This document sets out an analysis of the differences between the Ordinance and the Bill. At one stage the ordinance was not in effect. It had been disallowed but as a result of the Senate Committee's consideration, was subsequently reintroduced in an amended form. There are a number of alterations being made to the law and I want to refer to two or three of them that are included in the Bill in a different form. They cover essentially the same area inasmuch as they provide warranties which require that goods shall be of merchantable quality, as represented; that they will be fit for the purpose for which they are represented; that they will correspond with description and sample, where samples are provided; and they implied that manufacturers will ensure a reasonable availability of spare parts and repair facilities and that they will comply with express warranties. They cover the same general ambit but in regard to the definitions of 'goods', there is some difference. Whereas in the Ordinance the goods that were covered were those of a kind ordinarily acquired for private use or consumption, in the Bill they are described as 'of a kind ordinarily acquired for personal, domestic or household use or consumption'. That, of course, may cover less in some cases and in others it may cover more. There will be that variation. 
The legislation is a little different from the Australian Capital Territory ordinance, as it now stands, in that there are different time limits. People will have to take action within three years instead of the ordinary common law requirement to take action within six years if they have a claim. Overall there is an absolute limit on any action in respect of goods more than 10 years old. In addition, this legislation does not contain any stipulation that where there is a breach of the liability in respect of spare parts, there is an offence. In the ordinance failure to provide spare parts was an offence subject to a fine. In this Bill the contract may be voided if the requirement is not complied with, although no offence is created. One other aspect which I find a little disappointing. I hope that consideration will be given to including it in the future- is that whereas in the ordinance or in the law as it exists in the Australian Capital Territory there is power to prescribe written regulations which set out the form of the written warranties to be given by manufacturers and also the manner in which such warranties are to be printed this is not included in the Bill. Certainly the Senate Committee in its report considered that this matter was rather important because a great deal often hangs on the way in which guarantees are set out and the way in which they are presented to people. Paragraph 35 of the Committee's report stated: 
The Committee recommends that, before the ordinance is reintroduced, section 10 should be amended to allow the Minister to make regulations to provide for the form of written guarantees and to prescribe or regulate the manner in which those guarantees are to be printed. The Committee recommends that if an offence is to be created for breach of the regulations, the nature of the offence and the penalty to be imposed should be spelt out in the ordinance itself. 
I believe that that would have been advisable. I think that it is an important aspect and I hope that further consideration will be given to it. However, I do not desire to be niggling about this. This Bill does one very important thing. It now provides for the whole of Australia, through the Trade Practices Act, a law which was applicable previously only in the State of South Australia and in the Australian Capital Territory. I think these were the main areas where such laws applied. Therefore, one would expect some differences. No doubt certain representations have been made since the Committee reported two years ago and they should be taken into consideration. 
I want generally to commend the Government for going ahead with this legislation, and for making this particularly valuable alteration to the law. It will be useful to all consumers throughout Australia. I therefore hope that the Bill will be accepted by this Parliament and brought into speedy operation. 
Sitting suspended from  12.58  to  2.15  p.m. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
1 ) How many project officers are currently employed under the Community Youth support Scheme in Victoria. 
How many unemployed persons are currently involved in each project, on a project by project basis, in Victoria. 
How many persons involved in the Scheme regularly attend the activities organised by their local project officer. 
How many persons involved in the Scheme, during the twelve-month period to 1 September 1978, become employed subsequently in permanent full-time occupations. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. I refer to the serious criticisms made by  Mr Bruce  Brown, a stipendiary magistrate, on 31 January 1979 at the committal hearings in Sydney relating to 179 migrants who were charged with conspiring to defraud the Commonwealth. I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether his attention has been drawn to  Mr Brown's  statement that the manner in which the Crown had conducted its case represented a fundamental denial of the defendants' rights and, in particular, his contention that the defendants 'stood in the same uninformed position' regarding charges against them as they had 10 months ago, when first charged. Whilst in no way seeking any comment from the AttorneyGeneral on the truth or otherwise of the charges, or on any matter at issue in these prosecutions, I ask the Attorney-General whether he can say why the defendants in these cases were not provided with reasonable particulars of the charges laid against them and indicate what steps have been taken to remedy the situation. 
I likewise support the Bill. I do not perhaps have  Senator Button's  vast knowledge of international law and I did not have the opportunity to read the Victorian Act which I see has arrived hot-foot on our desks while we have been speaking. I was glad to know that there was such unanimity of support from the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack), Senator Tate  and  Senator Button  and at least they were all well advised on this particular subject. It is, of course, a complicated Bill in many respects and I must confess that I do not entirely understand all aspects of it because there is following it other complementary legislation which we have not yet seen. I think it is highly desirable that we in this country should now be applying our own laws and the appropriate State laws which are made applicable by this Bill. Not so very long ago, in 1977, this was stated by the Privy Council in these terms: 
It may at first sight seem surprising that despite the passing of the Statute of Westminster, 1931, and the creation of separate Australian citizenship by the British Nationality Act 1948 . . . Parliament in the United Kingdom when it passes a statute which creates a new criminal offence in English law is also legislating for those Australian passengers who cross the Bass Strait by ship from Melbourne to Launceston. 
I should have thought that that would strike a note which would be immediately apparent to those who do cross those particular rough waters. I feel, therefore, that it is high time that we went ahead with legislation such as this and made it applicable. As has been pointed out in the second reading speech of the Attorney-General, it is an example of co-operative federalism between the Federal and State governments that we are applying the appropriate State laws to crimes which may be committed at sea. This is complicated because of the fact that the Bill goes to some lengths to show a connection between ships and a particular State because there may be many States with some association with a particular ship that is plying in Australian waters. Although the area of registration is the first, there are a number of other ways in which that connection is shown under the terms of the Bill. The Bill also deals with some actions on foreign ships, particularly in relation to ships coming to Australia on journeys and I think therefore that there will be a greater coverage of the law when crimes are in fact committed on such ships. 
I would appreciate some information from the Attorney-General in his reply as to the relationship this may have to some of the complementary and further legislation which is to come in relation to such areas as the Great Barrier Reef. At the moment considerable concern is felt by Australian citizens that in that area crimes may be committed on ships, very often foreign ships, where damage is done to that area and where things are being taken that are part of the national and international heritage of the world in relation to that particular area. I would appreciate some information as to the interrelations between this Bill and the situation in that area where, of course, there is existing legislation which is not at the moment being implemented. There is no marine authority in operation covering the various areas of the Great Barrier Reef. None of those areas has yet been proclaimed. I wonder whether activities could also be applied under this Bill and if so I am somewhat concerned in relation to the area where State laws might be applicable. We have got away. We have taken steps to bring the Federal law into this area. It may well be therefore that the Federal law would prevail but I would appreciate some information as to the relationship it might have to that particular vexed question. I believe that there is a problem in that there will need to be some co-operation between the joint authorities, who, I think, would have a joint operation in this area, particularly in regard to the clauses relating to offshore mining. Likewise I trust that that will not be a matter in which lack of cooperation will lead to the legislation being ineffective. Basically I suggest that this is a useful, if complicated, experiment in the law and that it certainly brings us up to date and into the twentieth century in respect of the operation of our laws concerning crimes that take place at sea. In this respect I welcome the Bill. 
I present the following petition from 88 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 26 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the people of Australia having taken part in the government of Australia through universal suffrage in December 1975 and again in December 1977 and 
That on the basis of their expressed choice at the ballot box the people of Australia gave authority to the LiberalNational Country Party Coalition to form a federal government to bring into affect specific policies promulgated throughout the length and breadth of Australia by the said Coalition and 
That, whereas by virtue of being elected through universal suffrage, the Government Members now sitting in the House of Representatives were authorised to implement their state objectives by legislation and that such authority did not extent to acting otherwise or to enact legislation not previously submitted to he will of the people, namely: 
 Revoking the legislation for twice-yearly pension payments. 
 Imposing a freeze on the free-of-means-test pension. 
* Unemployed divided into those with dependents and those without. 
* Imposing income tax on pensions under age pension age- invalid and repatriation service pensions; rehabilitation allowances and incentives; sheltered employment and allowances for tuberculosis suffers (civilian and service) and any other impositions. 
Your petitioners submit that all or any of the foregoing proposed legislation of the Lower House, if implemented, will greatly disadvantage many thousands of citizens as either against their expressed will or not submitted to universal vote as the democratic right of the Australian people, therefore, 
Your petitioners call on the Senate as the House of Review to take appropriate action to release these persons from burdens unfairly placed in order to finance a deficit not of their making. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 30 citizens of Australia: 
The Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the Victorian Federation of State School Parents' Clubs respectfully showeth: 
That as citizens of Victoria and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our school be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for: 
Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of 5 per cent in real terms on base level programs for 1 979. 
Restoration of the $8m cut from the Capital Grants for Government schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to my question of 29 May 1978, relating to the apparent erosion of air safety standards in Australia. In reply to that question  Senator Carrick,  on behalf of the Minister for Transport, stated:  . . Government policies on capital and current expenditure will not be permitted to erode air safety standards. 
I ask the Minister, firstly, is he concerned by recent reports of a number of near air collisions, and what investigations has he made as to the allegations of deterioration in Australia 's air safety record? I ask, secondly, whether the lack of adequate government funding has led to an insufficient number of air traffic controllers being employed in Australia and to an inadequate level of air safety equipment being provided at a number of airports. What action does the Minister plan to take in an effort to rectify this serious situation? 
-I present the seventh report of the Senate Standing Committee on Publications. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
Sitting suspended from 5.47 to 8 p.m. 

 General Business taking precedence of Government Business after 8 p.m. 

I present the following petition from 60 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Science and the Environment or alternatively the Attorney-General. Is the Minister aware of the decision given by  Mr Justice  Aickin in the High Court on 16 February 1 979 to the effect that private citizens and organisations claiming a non-property interest cannot enforce compliance by the Government with the administrative procedures of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act? Did the particular case refer to an attempt by the Australian Conservation Foundation to require the completion of a final environmental impact statement before approval is given for the development of an international tourist resort near Yeppoon in Queensland? Does the Minister agree with the criticisms expressed by  Dr Mosley  of the Australian Conservation Foundation that the High Court decision sets a bad precedent and robs the legislation of any substance? Does the Government intend to introduce an amendment to the Act which will give citizens and groups the right to seek the implementation of existing environmental legislation? Has the Australian Conservation Foundation applied to the AttorneyGeneral for his fiat to continue action over the alleged non-compliance with the administrative procedures of the Iwasaki development and will the Attorney-General be giving his fiat to the Australian Conservation Foundation for this purpose? 
I feel disposed to briefly enter this debate for one or two reasons. I have already spoken at some length, as has  Senator Evans,  on this subject when debating the Appropriation Bill. On that occasion we took the opportunity to discuss these guidelines and the workings of legal aid in this community. I remind the Senate that, in fact, when this statement was introduced on 25 October there was no time to discuss the guidelines. They were introduced and we did not have the opportunity to do anything. We felt there was some opportunity to obtain some facts. Therefore we subsequently took the opportunity on 8 November 1978 to make speeches on this subject. For all it mattered, those speeches might just as well not have been made because, as far as one can see, neither the Government nor the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  took the slightest notice and there was not the slightest response or answer to the criticisms which I, in particular, then made of the guidelines and of the state of legal aid in this country. 
I have found no reason to say that the position has changed or got better. I must say that since that time I have not received a great deal of material from the legal profession or from people involved in legal aid. I know there is constant criticism and I know that private practitioners are withdrawing from the legal aid area. I must say, in criticism of the profession in which I previously practised that I have not received from it a great deal of information since 8 November 1978 which would enable me to make a further speech today and which would enable me to go into further details on matters which I did not cover at that time. I think that is extraordinary. I think that is one example of the short-sightedness of the legal profession in this country. It does not provide its own protection and it does not bring forward the facts- as it very often does so well for its clients- when putting its case before members of Parliament and the public. 
This afternoon I had the opportunity of hearing only part of the remarks made by  Senator Baume.  I regret that and I hope I do not in any way misunderstand or misinterpret the views which he expressed. I must say that I did not feel very sympathetic with the views that I heard. While I agree that of course the total scheme, the total welfare budget and the priorities of one group over another must be looked at, a situation can come where there has to be some limit, when something has to be judged to be of a lesser priority and it must go. I find this suggestion totally inapplicable to the legal aid scheme in this country because where nearly $7,000m is now spent in the medical and social welfare areas, about $20m is spent in the legal aid area. This is not an increasing amount. It is an amount which has been rather static for some years. 
In  Senator Evans's  interesting phrase, these guidelines were comparable to moving the chairs around on the decks of the  Titanic.  Perhaps they were doing a little more than that. I will concede that there were some variations in amounts of expenditures and this was some improvement if we take account of the fact that there will be a limited amount. But, let us take into account the fact that all we are doing is saying: 'Yes, if you are a pensioner you will come within the guidelines and get legal aid'. To my mind- I think this is so in many other countries, including the United States- legal aid should not be regarded as being just for the pensioner. It is a matter of whether the law should be available to the poor or to the relatively poor in the community. If a person has a right that ought to be litigated then he should not have to take into account that it will cost him hundreds of dollars or thousands of dollars. He cannot be expected to sacrifice his home and all his assets for that purpose. It is unfair to his family and to his commitments elsewhere. 
Therefore, legal aid is something that ought to be available in our civilised community to a lot more people than just the pensioners. It should be available to people who are on relatively low incomes so that they have equal access to the law. We do not yet have equal access to the law in this country. It is something of which we should be ashamed and something to which we are not yet facing up or doing enough about. 
The honourable senator is right but I am saying he is taking one small and undeveloped area and talking as though it should be compared. When we get to a situation where $50m is spent on legal aid in an area where it would provide for some more people, then, sure, that is a comparative area. I know the position at the moment in  Senator Baume  's profession, in the health areas and so forth, where some terrible wastes are going on. Probably the amount of money that could be saved on pathologists would be enough to provide a decent legal aid system. 
I am all in favour of the honourable senator's idea that, of course, there must be comparisons, but let them be like comparisons. Let there be comparisons where there is, in fact, in existence an appropriate legal aid scheme before we think of cutting it down because the scheme has never properly got off the ground in this country. 
In the course of this debate there has been mention of the fact that there is, of course, a Parliamentary Joint Committee on the Family Law Act. The hope was expressed that that committee would consider this question of legal aid. I feel that that is one of the appropriate and hopeful areas because when one looks at the whole scheme of family law- which takes up something like 80 per cent of the legal aid costs in this country- one must realise that it is a very important area. For example, in the application of legal aid at the family court, only one of the courts in Australia has a legal aid service available at the court. That court is Parramatta. Nowhere else is that service found. It is not a case of saying one or two courts could do without it. Parramatta alone has legal aid on the spot. So one would expect that legal aid must loom large in the investigation being made by a committee of the Parliament into family law. 
As a member of the Committee I will not say any more about that situation. I will just say that I appreciate what has been said this afternoon. It has also been said that salaried services have a big part to play in legal aid. I agree with that. I am not sure that I am convinced, in the way that  Senator Evans  is, that there is some necessary advantage in that salaried service or that it is, as I think he said, 50 per cent more efficient. From my reading, which is extensive, I believe that there are areas where very definitely salaried services can perform more effectively. There are areas where the private service is more efficient and there are those areas in which the private service is perhaps not particularly interested and  in which it is not taking a great deal of activity such as housing law and poverty law. In these and various other areas, the salaried service has a distinct advantage. I am not prepared to go as far as  Senator Evans  and say that I, for one, am satisfied that there is an overall advantage to one service. Both must play a part. It is accepted by the private legal profession now- it was not accepted in my State of Victoria just a few years ago when they were initiating litigation to try to stop the Commonwealth legal aid service- that there is an important part to be played by the salaried service. I think that has to be recognised and some moneys have to be spent to increase that area of service. 
I close by saying that I am surprised that the Government has not made some further comment since this statement was tabled. Since these guidelines came down in October we have had comments in the Parliament. There has been criticism and there is more today. I hope that the officers of the Government will read some of the comments that have been made by me and by other honourable senators in this place and that there will be some response to them. I hope that our remarks will not be treated as some offthetopofthehead idea. I intend to find out more and I intend to press this question of legal aid. I do not think the present situation is satisfactory. 
The guidelines that are the vehicle of this debate have done various things. I agree with most of the things that  Senator Evans  has said about those guidelines. There is some good in them but I think some changes are causing a great deal of difficulty to the legal profession and they are leading to people withdrawing from the legal aid scheme. This will make it all the poorer and it will mean that people will not get the advantage of a good service. 
I feel, therefore, that these guidelines have merely held the position. Under them money will be moved around in a very limited area. I think that the community has to be roused to realise that much greater expenditure is needed for a proper legal aid service. If we believe in equality before the law and believe that it should apply to people who are very poor, to pensioners and to those who have a little more money than that, we must recognise that we have not done well enough in this community. I have made these few additional remarks in the hope that the Government will take some notice of what has been said so that we can improve the position of legal aid in this country. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That the Senate notes with concern the failure of some Ministers and departments promptly to carry out undertakings given to the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances to amend unsatisfactory legislation, as recorded in the sixty-second report of the Committee. 
The purpose of this motion is to invite the Senate's attention to a situation which has caused some concern to the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances Committee in recent years. I should begin by setting out the role of the Committee. The Committee scrutinises regulations and ordinances and other delegated legislation which is made under Acts of the Parliament and which is subject to disallowance, to ensure that: Firstly they are in accordance with the statute; secondly, they do not trespass unduly on personal rights and liberties; thirdly, they do not unduly make the rights and liberties of citizens dependent upon administrative rather than upon judicial decisions; and, fourthly, they are concerned with administrative detail and do not amount to substantive legislation which should be a matter for parliamentary enactment. 
The Standing Order under which the Committee is established contemplates that the Committee, when it discovers provisions in regulations and ordinances which offend against these principles, will make a report to the Senate and recommend the disallowance by the Senate of those provisions. In recent years, however, the Committee has taken the view that disallowance by the Senate is the ultimate sanction, and that the Committee ought to seek to bring about changes in provisions which it regards as objectionable without resorting to disallowance in each case. When it discovers provisions in legislation which appear to be objectionable, the Committee seeks an explanation from the responsible Minister. If that explanation is not satisfactory the Committee usually requests the Minister to change the offending provisions. It is usually only if the Minister does not adopt this course of action that the Committee recommends disallowance to the Senate. 
In recent years the Committee has accepted from responsible Ministers a large number of undertakings to amend regulations and ordinances which the Committee regards as objectionable. The Committee has adopted the practice of reporting these undertakings to the Senate in regular general reports so that the Senate will be aware of the types of provisions which the Committee is seeking to change and of the undertakings which have been given. I should make it clear that in the majority of cases the responsible Ministers have carried out the promises which they have made to amend various provisions. The Committee has frequently expressed its appreciation of the co-operation which has been extended to it by Ministers in the majority of cases where promises to amend legislation have been accepted by the Committee. 
No Minister has ever withdrawn or gone back on a promise given to the Committee and Ministers have frequently adopted undertakings given by their predecessors, even after changes of government. This is important because when the Committee accepts an undertaking to amend legislation the time during which the Senate may disallow that legislation is usually allowed to pass before the promised amendments can be made. Once the time for disallowance has passed, the Senate of course is powerless to effect changes in the delegated legislation concerned, except by indirect means. Having said that, the Committee has been disatisfied with inordinate delays in carrying out some undertakings given by Ministers. The sixty-third report of the Committee is directed to some of these undertakings. I will now refer to some particular cases listed in the report. 
The first item in the report relates to certain offences under the motor traffic law of the Australian Capital Territory. In 1975 the Committee objected to certain provisions which amounted to reversals of the onus of proof in criminal cases. The law relating to the onus of proof is somewhat complex. The courts have developed a common law of the onus of proof which has been overlaid by interpretation of particular statutory provisions. In 1975 the Committee, rather than become involved with the complexities of the law of the onus of proof, accepted an undertaking from the then Attorney-General that prosecution procedures in the Territory would be amended so as to make it less likely that a defendant would be put to the trouble and expense of establishing a statutory defence before the courts. After the change of government, there was an inordinate delay of almost three years while successive Attorneys-General considered whether they would carry out the undertaking of their predecessor. Late last year the Committee received a letter from the present AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  in which he asked the Committee to reconsider the whole matter and set out certain matters of law in support of his argument that the provisions in question should be allowed to remain as they are. 
The gist of these points of law is that the courts have 'watered down' statutory reversals of the onus of proof so that the burden placed upon defendants is not as great as the statutory provisions would appear to indicate. It has been suggested to me that the common law situation is more complex than the Attorney-General 's letter indicates and that there are still good grounds in law for the provisions to be changed. This matter is presently being examined by the Committee's legal adviser. The point is that, while all this has been taking place, persons have been prosecuted and convicted under these provisions which the Committee may still find to be an infringement of individual civil liberties. 
The second matter referred to in the Committee's report is the matter of provisions in the Postal Services Regulations allowing the opening of mail by officers of the Postal Commission. The Committee considered that the regulations made under the Postal Services Act in 1975 conferred too wide a power to open mail. The then responsible Minister gave an undertaking to amend the regulations to restrict that power properly. That undertaking was confirmed by his successor early in 1976. Subsequently, the Committee agreed to a postponement of the promised amendments pending consideration of the subject of opening of mail by the Law Reform Commission, providing there was no undue delay. The Committee was also told that the Royal Commission on Drugs wished to look into the matter of the opening of mail. In the last few days the Committee has received a letter form the responsible Minister indicating that, as the reports of the two Commissions had been unduly delayed, the amendments promised to the Committee will now be proceeded with, more than three years after they were promised. During those three years the mail of citizens in this country has presumably been opened by officers exercising powers which the Committee regarded as excessively wide. The Committee hopes that the amendments will now be made without further delay and that their effects will not be sought to be reversed by the reports of the two Commissions. 
The third matter referred to in the Committee's report concerns regulations under the Customs Act which confer a large number of discretionary powers upon administrative officers to control imports and exports. Generally speaking, no importer or exporter can engage in any trade without some ministerial or official approval, whether this takes the form of licences issued under the various regulations, or of waivers of prohibitions, also empowered by the regulations, or some other form. In 1975 the then Minister agreed that all of these powers should be subject to appeals. In 1976 the new Minister agreed to refer the matter to the Administrative Review Council. The Committee has been doing some prompting, and the Administrative Review Council has now assured the Committee that it will step up its consideration of the matter. 
Of the remaining undertakings referred to by the Committee in its report, that relating to the Australian Capital Territory Physiotherapists Registration Ordinance has been carried out, whilst the provisions in the Australian Capital Territory Sale of Motor Vehicles Ordinance to which the Committee objected are not being used pending a review of them. The other two undertakings, relating to the Federal Court of Australian Regulations and the Australian Capital Territory Consumer Affairs Ordinance, have not been carried out. The Australian Capital Territory Consumer Affairs Ordinance is of particular concern to the Committee as the provisions objected to in the Ordinance were regarded by the Committee as fundamental breaches of individual rights and liberties and of the power of the courts, and it should be a matter of grave concern to the Senate that the undertaking given in August 1977 has still not been carried out. 
The Committee's report refers to the highly unsatisfactory situation which results when provisions regarded as defective by the Committee, and admitted as such by the responsible Ministers, are allowed to remain in operation for years before promised amendments are forthcoming. Paragraph 5 of the Committee's report reads: 
All of the regulations and ordinances referred to have provisions which are unsatisfactory in their effect on individual rights and liberties, and this has been recognised by various Ministers in their various undertakings. A highly unsatisfactory situation arises when undertakings by Ministers are not carried out promptly and expeditiously, in that provisions recognised to be defective are allowed to stand and the public effectively lack the protection which the disallowance procedure and the Committee are designed to give. Unless there is an improvement in the situation in the future the Committee will be less ready to accept undertakings which cannot be carried out before the time for disallowance has passed. 
If the Committee continues to encounter inordinate delays in carrying out undertakings given, even though those undertakings are a minority of the total received by the Committee, the Committee will be forced to adopt a new approach which will cause much greater inconvenience to Ministers and departments. As is suggested in the report, the Committee will be less willing to accept undertakings unless they can be carried out before the time for disallowance has passed. The Committee may adopt the procedure of moving for disallowance in the Senate without first giving Ministers the opportunity to amend the offending provisions. It is hoped that the Committee will not be forced to adopt such measures and that this report, and other action taken by the Committee, will bring about an improvement in the situation. 
For these reasons, and in the expectation that clear and unequivocal assurances can be given that the complaints will be remedied, I have moved this motion. I know it is customary for the debate on motions such as this that are moved under General Business to be adjourned. I point out that there is quite a considerable difference in regard to this matter. It is based on a report which was tabled in this Senate on 28 September 1978. It was not dealt with, nor did we push for it to be dealt with, before Christmas. We felt that ample time had been given to Ministers to determine their views in respect of these matters. The details have been before the public, the Senate and the Government since 28 September 1978, and I believe that they should be answered now. I do not believe that the debate on this matter should be adjourned and allowed to find its way up the Notice Paper. I believe this matter is important to the integrity of government in this country and it is important that committees of this Senate be able to do their job. It is for those reasons that I have moved this motion. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Jessop)-  Is the motion seconded? 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. I refer to the recommendation of the Family Law Council, recently endorsed by the Australian Council of Social Service, relating to the prolonged delay in obtaining reciprocal arrangements with New Zealand in respect of the recognition and enforcement of custody orders. Will the AttorneyGeneral confirm that there is still no agreement with New Zealand for the reciprocal enforcement of custody orders? Has it been brought to the Attorney-General's attention that, because passports are not required for travel between the two countries, it is possible for children to be snatched from the parent to whom the court has given custody? Will the Attorney-General take up this serious and urgent matter with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and emphasise the importance of negotiations with the New Zealand Government for the earliest possible conclusion of reciprocal arrangements as an effective means of preventing child kidnapping? 
-by leave-In the first place I should like to support the remarks made by  Senator Coleman.  I commend her on her very mild report. I will not be quite as mild as she was in her statement. It seems to me that for some weeks now we have seen outrageous behaviour by the Press of this country. I am ashamed to see the way in which the activities of the Joint Select Committee on the Family Law Act and the evidence given to it have been distorted. I agree with what has been done by the Committee. Unfortunately I was not present when the Committee decided to take this course of action but I am happy that it is raising this matter with the Australian Press Council. The situation in this instance is that representatives of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  gave evidence before this Committee and were examined in the course of the Committee hearing. Members of the Press were not there to hear the evidence but they then produced nonsensical accounts of that evidence which were published throughout Australia. One realises that at times some members of the Press work quite hard but if one wanted to hide some secret, for example, perhaps the best way to do it would be to read it into the  Hansard  record after 8 p.m. One would then know that it would never be reported by the Press of this country. The secret would be safe. 
This Committee met and called evidence. Let me point out that I am not disclosing anything that is not public knowledge. As the  Chairman  of the Committee pointed out quite recently, 200 submissions have been made to the Committee and 54 of them have been of a general nature. They have not just dealt, of course, with individual complaints and they have been relaeased to the Press. They are available. The AttorneyGeneral's submission is, of course, in that position. What the statement does not say- I think this ought to be said- is that the particular submission from the Attorney-General's office set out in considerable details the results of the correspondence which it had received over a period of some 20 months. I speak now from my memory of the evidence- I do not have it with me here in Canberra- but I have examined it fairly closely. My recollection is that some 120 people have written to the Attorney-General expressing views about parts of the Act. They did not all express views about the same parts. In fact, when it came to the somewhat sensational news which the Press picked up- members of the Press did not come to hear this evidence or the examination of witnesses but apparently just read the submission beforehand- it turned out that about 30 people had written saying that a certain course of action should be taken and 30 people expressed the opposite view. In fact, 30 of them said that men were being prejudiced under this Act and about 30 people said that women were being prejudiced under this Act. The other 60 people were writing about other things. 
Of course, what had happened was that the members of a couple of fairly strong organisations had written a number of letters. There was no real suggestion that this represented any heavy public opinion at all or that it necessarily reflected any strong opinion within the community. What is more to the point, of course, is that it was never suggested that this represented the opinion of the Attorney-General's Department or the Attorney-General. It was merely a helpful piece of material put before the Committee. It was turned into the sort of sensation that we saw in one newspaper after anotherthat most people feel that the Attorney-General is advocating this type of reform to the Act. The material referred to in these editorials is of a particular nonsensical type. The Committee has to deal- I will not go into the work of the Committee in detail- with many suggestions that are made by many people throughout the community. It will hear evidence. It will travel around the country to hear evidence about this Act from people and organisations. I express the view, as I have often done in the past, that the Family Law Act is one of the great legislative achievements of this country in the last 20 years. 

 - Senator Button has reason to say 'Hear, hear! '. He played an important part in seeing that the Act came into being. It has been found, even after three years, that some difficulties and problems have not yet been solved. People are putting forward suggestions, mostly of a constructive nature, to solve these difficulties. But to talk about it being a flop and to talk about the investigation lasting three years is incorrect. Any idiot would be able to find out that the Committee has to report by the end of this year. That is the deadline. I have no doubt that the Committee will make every attempt to reach that deadline, even taking into account the considerable size of the submissions which have been forwarded and the considerable number of public hearings it will hold. This type of nonsense perpetrated on the Australian people has the effect of upsetting and frightening some people and also of leading to rubbish being printed in the daily newspaper columns. This is unfair to the public. It is most unfair to the Committee and to this Parliament. 
I just want to add to what has been said by  Senator Coleman.  Perhaps I have used slightly stronger language than the diplomatic language contained in the statement which the Committee issued. I stand strongly behind the Committee. The Press of this country has not shown a sufficient and proper interest in this inquiry. Many comments have been made in the course of this inquiry. Members of the Press should not just read the submissions but should come along to hear the evidence and to hear the examination conducted by the members of the Committee. They should hear the very excellent evidence that is given. I hope that we will see a change of attitude and that in future members of the Press in this country will perform well in regard to this particular inquiry, just as they have done in some other inquiries. I am afraid that the Press has something to answer for in relation to this inquiry. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. My attention has been drawn to the plight of one parent families, and in particular, to the differences which exist in the benefits paid to children who are under the auspices of the Department of Veterans' Affairs and those cared for by the Department of Social Security. Is the Minister aware, for example, that a civilian widow with a child of 14 years is paid a mere $66.70 a week, compared with $8 1 .70 received by a war widow in the same circumstances? Will the Minister explain the reason for this difference? Does she agree that it is indeed a deep injustice for such discrimination to exist between children? I refer the Minister to the United Nations declaration which states that it is the fundamental right of all children to have equality of educational opportunities'. In view of this, will the Minister investigate the possibility of the children of civilian widows being paid an education allowance similar to that paid to the children of war widows? Does she agree that in so doing the justification for the Year of the Child will be given more merit? 
It is necessary at this stage of the debate to remind those who are listening to it that what we are debating is a motion by  Senator Chipp  suggesting that there be a reference to a committee. This matter has been lost sight of by  Senator Keeffe  and other speakers tonight. The motion states: 
That the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Science and the Environment: Oil exploration in the Great Barrier Reef area, including all the possible effects of any such exploration. 
I enter this debate tonight realising that a number of Queensland senators have seen fit and will see fit to speak on the matter. I believe that it is a matter of national and international importance. The question of a great national and international asset, namely, the Great Barrier Reef, is of concern for us and for each of our constituents. Therefore, one does not expect that this matter can be confined to those who come from Queensland. I think that we must recognise that we are dealing with the largest and most complex system of coral reefs known on this planet. It consists of about 2,500 reefs in an area of 272,000 square kilometres along 1,900 kilometres of coastline. It has recently been stated by the Australian Littoral Society, which is a society interested not only in Queensland but also in the coastline of Australia, that despite its vast size biologists consider that it is an interdependent system of reefs which probably is also ecologically linked to the estuaries, mangrove forests and tidal marshes along the Queensland coastline. For this reason we cannot protect the reef by simply giving a few representative areas national park status. I will come to that point later. What I want to say particularly is that this is a matter of great importance - 
I do not intend to spend too much time on that, senator. I will come to the question of the national park. I will discuss these matters later. This is a matter in which we are all involved. There are people in my State who are particularly concerned that the reef should be protected. In addition, so far as this motion is concerned I do not concede for one moment that, if passed, it would protect the reef. I heard  Senator Chipp  say that if it is passed it will stop any deals which the Premier of Queensland might make with the oil companies. I suggest that that is quite unsound and quite unlikely. 
You mentioned the oil companies because I wrote it down at the time. I suggest that to send a matter like this for further inquiry by a Senate committee would not solve that problem. It would mean, of course, that the committee would be likely to suggest an excuse why determined action should not be taken at this time. Of course, in saying this I realise that  Senator Jessop,  the  chairman  of Senate Standing 
Committee on Science and the Environment, expressed supportive views. A political decision must be made now. It is hard to see how an inquiry would affect such a decision.  Senator Jessop  was supported in that comment by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Wriedt,  who said that such action would not be saved by reference to another committee. 
A fair amount of agreement exists that the course proposed by  Senator Chipp  is not one that is desirable or acceptable. That does not mean that there should not be much discussion about this matter and that there should not be determination and will on the part of this Parliament and members in it to ensure that the reef is protected in every possible way. Reference has been made tonight to the fact that a royal commission was established in 1970. We know that at that time less was know about the effects of oil spills and the effects of blowouts of oil than is know today. I think it is useful to remind ourselves of comments made by the Royal Commission into Exploratory and Production Drilling for Petroleum in the area of the Great Barrier Reef when referring to blowouts. It stated: 
Blowouts 
If petroleum drilling be permitted within the GBRP there will be and remain a real but small to very small risk of blowouts. 
Chronic and Random Spills 
It is almost certain that some measure of chronic and random spills and leaks of oil will from time to time occur. The amount of pollution caused thereby will range from small to substantial, that is to say from a few gallons to hundreds of barrels- or more if a leak from a tanker during loading operations near the production site occurred. 
I think that is correct. In my argument I propose to prove that the facts since then have indicated a much greater risk than that. I think that we have learned a lot more since that time. I think that the danger is greater now. This situation was recently referred to in an editorial published by the Melbourne  Age.  When referring to the royal commission, the article pointed out that there were two separate but related issues. It stated: 
One is drilling on the reef itself; the other, drilling in the waters surrounding it. The 1 970 Royal Commission was emphatic that there should be no drilling for oil on any reef, cay or island within what it called 'the Great Barrier Reef Province '. Any change in this position is unthinkable. 
That is the view expressed by the newspaper and I agree entirely with it. The article continued: 
The Great Barrier Reef belongs not only to Australia but to the world. It is part of what has been called 'the world heritage', and we are duty bound as such to do everything we can to preserve it. Any move in the reverse direction would stamp Australia as a mercenary and thoroughly irresponsible society. 
In the same editorial reference is made to the royal commissioners. It referred to the section of the report of the royal commission from which I quoted briefly. The article then stated: 
They also said that the research then available was not sufficient to say what the effects of massive and chronic amounts of freshly spilled crude oil would be on the coral and associated organisms. Their uncertainty is itself a reason why the Federal Government should not yield to pressure from the oil companies to permit drilling in the vicinity of the reef. We have a priceless asset in the reef, and nothing should be permitted which might remotely endanger it. 
I hold strongly to those views because I believe it is important that we recognise the danger that exists. I refer also to statements of the Australian Littoral Society and to its recent conclusions in a statement issued on 4 February of this year. It indicated that the problems still remain and the issue was still of national importance. The document issued by the Australian Littoral Society stated: 
We believe (and we are supported by Queensland amateur and professional fishing organisations and skindiving clubs) that it would be quite irrresponsible for any government to jeopardise the future of the Great Barrier Reef by allowing oil exploration anywhere within the Region. Neither the oil spills associated with a Reef oil industry nor the biological changes induced by pollution could be confined to an area specifically designated for drilling. 
My understanding from that, without going into it at any length, is that there is not a great deal of knowledge in existence at the moment about the reef and the areas surrounding it and that a great deal is not known about tides and the effects of spillage. It is very difficult to say where it would be safe to drill in any circumstances. Since 1970, of course, there have been some rather startling examples of the effects of blowouts. One example which has been referred to tonight is important. I refer to the Ekofisk oil drilling accident which occurred in the North Sea area on 22 April 1977. Despite the views which were expressed to the royal commission by some witnesses who said that these things were unlikely to happen, an uncontrolled blowout took place in April 1977. The accident left a great deal of oil in the middle of the North Sea. 
It was very fortunate that at that time the weather conditions were such that the damage was not as great as it otherwise might have been. I think the cost alone to the oil industry in trying to deal with this matter was nearly $10m. The conclusions which were arrived at by writers in respect of that particular blowout were conclusions which surely must be important to us in considering whether any action should be taken on or near the reef. An article written by  Mr Bengt  Wallenberg, the head of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's 
Energy and Environment Division, appeared in the  Observer  in September 1977. He reached the following conclusion: 
Concerning the environmental effects, there is no doubt that the series of tanker accidents off the coasts of the United States, French and Spanish coasts and the blow-out in the North Sea have reinforced public concern and scientific interest in the long-term effects of oil on marine and estuarine ecosystems. OU spills, whether from production or shipping accidents, are in general relatively localised episodic events and are known to be capable of having an immediate and catastrophic impact on recipient ecosystems. There have been very few long-term follow-up assessments of areas impacted by oil spills, and the rates and levels of ecosystem recovery are not generally known. 
That is a view as late as 1977. Even as late as today we read in our newspapers of an oil spill, certainly not a major one, that happened so close to home in Bass Strait. This was due to a boat anchor breaking the line. In the  Herald  tonight there is reference to two things. The first I believe is an unfortunate statement by an official of the Department of Minerals and Energy who said, in reply to a question about why there was no statement on this since it happened several days ago: No, it was a non-event as far as we were concerned. There was no need to make a statement- my concern was to get the pipeline repaired as soon as possible'. I prefer the remark made by a State Government inspector who said: 'This is the first time we have had a pipeline oil escape in Bass Strait and, fortunately, this one was very minimal'. It was fortunate that this one was very minimal but the next one could be very serious. 
No. Obviously you have formed the most curious conclusion. Of course we do not stop drilling in Bass Strait. 
-No, it is not. I find the argument so incredibly puerile - 
-I think it is a good point. It shows there is a great deal of danger in this field. That sort of danger must influence any decision on drilling for oil near the reef. We are considering something which was done by this Parliament a few years ago. The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act is on the statute book and I find it incredible that at this stage that Act is not in active operation. If one looks at section 7 ( 1 ) of the Act one finds that the functions of the authority are: 
to make recommendations to the Minister in relation to the care and development of the Marine Park including recommendations, from time to time, as to- 
the areas that should be declared to be pans of the Marine Park; and 
the regulations - 
It then has to carry out certain works. We know that no parts of the Marine Park have yet been declared. I deplore that situation. I have said before, and I say it again, that I think that that stage should surely have been reached. Even the area which was to be the first park, in Capricornia, comprising 6 per cent of the whole of the Barrier Reef has not been proclaimed. 
We have annual reports by the Great Barrier Reef Marine Authority because it exists but it is so limited in its present powers. In its first report it was pointed out that the Act was carried in 1975 with the support of all political parties. I had great pleasure in supporting that Act because I thought it was a most important one. I thought the authority ought to come into practical operation. In its second report, in 1977-78, that Authority had this to say: 
The members considered that drilling should only be permitted in the light of full scientific knowledge of all the effects of oil pollution on the delicately balanced ecosystems of the Reef. Research should encompass oils' direct and indirect effects, both short and long term, on corals and othermarine life. 
The threat to the Great Barrier Reef from oil is not limited to proposed oil drilling activities. Of more immediate concern are the risks associated with the passage of oil tankers and other shipping through the region. The Authority is seeking a co-ordinating role in the development of research into this potential problem as well as monitoring research by other organisations. 
I believe it is important that this particular Act come into effective operation. I am not alone in this view. I warmly commend the letter which my Victorian colleague,  Mr Barry  Simon, the honourable member for McMillan, wrote to the  Australian  on 15 February 1979 in which he said, amongst other things: 
Not only should there be no commercial drilling for oil (if in fact any exists) but there should be no experimentation or exploratory work undertaken in the Reef area. 
He went on to say: 
However, I do believe that the Government should now indicate its intention to protect the whole of the reef as it U defined in the Commonwealth Act from the point near Bundaberg right through to Cape York, thereby removing any doubts as to the Commonwealth Government's intention regarding oil exploration. 
There is, however, a need for greater research of the marine environment, both within and outside that defined area. 
This fact was recorded by an all-Party House of Representatives committee in a report tabled in Parliament last year on the subject of oil and the marine environment. 
The Commonwealth Government recorded its bonafides in relation to the protection of significant environmental features in Australia when it stopped sand mining on Fraser Island. 
I believe that there is strong support in the Liberal Parliamentary Party for a similar declaration on the Great Barrier Reef. 
I could not agree more with the views which  Mr Simon  expressed with regard to that matter. 
Earlier this evening  Senator Chipp  asked me some questions and I think he thought that I should be able to answer them all. I said that I would indicate that I believe that the Government and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  have repeated their declarations with regard to the fact that this oil mining would not be permitted to commence on the Reef, and I hope not in the immediate vicinity. Because of representations which I received in January, on 24 January I wrote a letter to the Prime Minister referring to representations which the Australian Littoral Society had made. It was concerned about Press reports that the Government had directed the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority not to proceed with the declaration of the Capricornia section of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. I then expressed my view that early action should be taken to expedite the implementation of the Act and that the Australian people could be assured that the speculations of this matter are unjustified. I think that is basically the question which I was asked. 
In a reply to me dated 19 February, referring to and repeating those allegations which had been made, the Prime Minister said: 
I also received representations from the Society and replied on 24 January pointing out that the Press reports were quite inaccurate. The actual position is that the Queensland Premier has agreed that talks be held between Commonwealth and State officials to resolve any possible difficulties that could arise in relation to the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park following the Premiers Conference agreement on extending the powers of the States into the territorial sea. 

 Senator Chipp did not quote the latter part of his answer to the question. 
-It means that those statements are wrong and that there is no direction given not to proceed. I wanted to see something more positive and I rely upon the latter part of the Prime Minister's answer in which, on 21 February, he said to  Mr Barry  Cohen: 
But let me give a complete and unequivocal guarantee that this Government would not allow any drilling or any mining that would do anything to damage the reef. If there were to be any doubt about that, activity would not take place. At the moment I know of no proposals. I will make inquiries to see if there are any proposals as regards drilling or mining. 
I believe it is quite essential that that position be maintained. I am concerned at the somewhat vague statements which the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  made earlier this month when discussing the possibility of drilling. I do not feel very happy about the idea of any joint authority that may have some separate control in the area of the reef. If in fact three-mile authorities are given to the State of Queensland and there are coral reefs which are partly under Queensland control and partly under the Commonwealth's control, I think this would be a matter of great concern. It must be made quite clear that the powers which the Commonwealth has, and which the High Court has declared, are such that the marine park can operate effectively. There is therefore, some danger in the joint control. I believe that there is danger in the statements which members of the Queensland Government have made about their intentions. I remind members of the Senate of what the Queensland Minister for Mines,  Mr Camm,  said on 24 December last. He said:  a number of experiments on the possible effects of crude oil on coral had shown that no damage had been caused. In some instances growth had been encouraged . . . offshore oil drilling is going on throughout the world with no danger to marine life and I can see no possible reason for any objection to off-shore exploration in this State, and technological developments in offshore drilling had improved tremendously in the last decade virtually eliminating the possibility of a major spill. 
I am concerned with that sort of statement. I am concerned with any suggestion that is made that Ministers like that will have some control over the marine authority and will be able in any way to meddle with the possibilities of oil drilling on and around the reef. We know that there are oil companies that had permits before and that they have been deferred. We know that there are some that were interested in this area. Therefore, I do not regard this matter as being in any way unimportant. I oppose the motion to send this reference to a committee because I think it will send it for some further period into a state of vagueness. I believe that we have certainty in this area and that we must keep that certainty and ensure that the policies which have, led us in the past to create the marine authority ensure also that it becomes effective and has areas of the reef within its direct control. Because I hold those views, I oppose this motion and hope that the Senate will take the matter very much in hand as a matter of importance to this country. 
I want to speak very briefly, not really on the substance of this matter and the matters canvassed by  Senator Evans,  but rather on the question of procedure. As the  chairman  of the committee to which this reference would go if the motion were carried, I want to draw attention to the fact that there is a substantive proposed reference- No. 89 on the Notice Paper- by  Senator Mason  relating to the whole subject of democracy by referendum as against representative democracy, which is a question that has arisen in the United States in particular in recent times. This of course is no new matter. It has been debated and discussed over many generations. However, I do not think that I should canvass this matter in any way at this time. 
-It probably has been. I would be very surprised if the matter had not been canvassed in the Parliament. If  Senator Mason  means the Parliament that has been sitting since 1 977, he is probably right. 
It has not? I am extremely surprised at that. To my knowledge, over the years it has certainly been discussed in journals and has been debated in many places. So far as the committee of which I am chairman is concerned, it is currently engaged in a very detailed reference with regard to freedom of information which will take it some months to deal with. There are also other references to the committee which have not yet been completed but which will be completed before the middle of this year. So the committee is not in a position to take up any immediate reference and give it attention. But that situation will change by the middle of the year. 
I repeat, I draw attention particularly to the fact that there is on the Notice Paper, but not yet debated, a substantive proposed reference on the subject. The motion before us concerns a petition related to this question. I take it that  Senator Mason  sees that large petition as a substantial indication of popular support, and therefore supporting evidence, for his major proposal. So it would seem to be quite mistaken to make a decision on the supplementary evidence involved here before debate and decision take place on the major reference. For that purpose I propose that the resumption of this debate be taken cognately with the debate on the proposed reference by  Senator Mason  set out in General Business Notice of Motion No. 89. I would merely indicate my intention to move to that effect. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Motion (by  Senator Missen)  agreed to: 
That the resumption of the debate be taken cognately with the debate on the proposed reference to the Committee moved by  Senator Mason  and shown as General Business Notice of Motion No. 89. 
I rise to support the amendments that are contained in the Family Law Amendment Bill 1978 and to welcome its introduction. The Bill deals with one important area in particular which has already been mentioned by  Senator Button.  I refer to the establishment and the powers of the Institute of Family Studies. The Bill also contains a number of relatively small but nonetheless useful amendments that I think should be put into the legislation. Of course, at this stage other considerations are taking place. The Family Law Council has met and, in its two annual reports, has made very substantial suggestions for amendments which, in the main, I think are useful to the legislation. A number of those suggestions are not contained in this Bill. They are matters which may be of some controversy and they are, of course, also being considered by the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Family Law Act which the Parliament set up. 
In dealing with the limited nature of this Bill as it exists, I do not want to trespass on the ground that  Senator Button  covered because I agree in general with his remarks about these amendments. I cannot resist saying that the establishment of the Institute of Family Studies is a matter about which I have moaned in the Senate on many occasions now for some years. I am not happy that it has taken three years for this Institute to get off the ground. I recognise the problems that were inherent in the original drafting of this part of the Bill. Those problems did not seem to be the real cause for such a delay. On previous occasions in this Senate I have said that money has been set aside for this project but it has not been used and, of course, we have not reached the stage of appointing the Director. I think that this is most unfortunate. Regrettably, it shows a lack of appreciation of the necessity for this Institute. This Institute ought to be operating contemporaneously with the development of the Family Law Act. It should be investigating what is happening and how the Act is working, quite apart from the statistics and so forth which are, of course, being obtained. An analysis should be made of what is happening both in regard to the breakdown of marriages and, on the positive side, what can be done in a more active way to improve the success of marriages and marriage relationships in this country. Therefore, I think it is most regrettable that this Institute has not been established earlier. 
I think it is regrettable that we do not already have the results of the research of the Institute. Such research would be of inestimable value to the Joint Committee on the Family Law Act because it is impossible for that Committee to carry out investigation which requires very detailed and considered research. I hope that these amendments will put the Institute into proper shape. I hope that the board of management and the Director of the Institute will be appointed quickly and that the Institute shortly will be in operation. I have always regarded that as an important part of the 1975 Act. I hope that the Institute will soon begin to play its part. 
The other amendments contained in the Bill originated substantially but not entirely from recommendations of the Family Law Council. I pay tribute to that Council which meets under the chairmanship of the  Hon.  Justice Evatt. It has taken a very active and, I think, positive role in looking at the way in which the Act is working and in making suggestions to the Parliament in that respect. I note, for example, in regard to the matter of counselling, which is given emphasis in this Bill, that the Family Law Council had this to say in its 1977 report: 
Situations have arisen where the Court may seek information about the children (e.g. where there is an issue about occupation of the home). Though these situations are not likely to arise very often there seems to be no good reason for the present restriction which may prevent the Court from obtaining a report or from taking action in the interests of the children. Further, there may be cases where it is unnecessary to adjourn the case while a report is being prepared. 
The report then recommended that the Court should have the power to call for a report in any cause and at any stage in the proceedings. This is terribly important. I doubt that this power has been used enough, mainly because of the lack of ancillary staff and councillors available to the court. It is important to be able to use that type of power at an early stage in proceedings before the parties have reached the situation where they have placed on record affidavit after affidavitwhen parties, their friends, relatives and so on have sworn to a certain situation and the position has become rigid. Counselling was regarded as a cornerstone in the unit operation which the Family Court of Australia is to use. Criticisms made now very often arise from the fact that there has not been sufficient opportunity to use the counselling service. Thus clause 1 1 of the Bill, which relates to the powers of the Court in custodial proceedings, will be useful in ensuring that counselling is used at any time. I have great hope that much use will be made of counselling services. 
I note also that the Bill provides that in future appeals will be conducted de novo. In other words, they will proceed afresh. They will not be dependent upon evidence that may come forward. Very often the evidence may have been given in a magistrate's court and may not have been recorded. Very often an unsatisfactory situation arises. In future, any evidence can be brought before the Court on appeal. This will enable the Court to consider the whole question and to make decisions that do justice to the parties involved.  Senator Button  has mentioned the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships. The part of that report concerning family law and family matters is a most excellent document. The areas which are covered by the recommendations are worthy of study by all members of this chamber. I hope that more of the recommendations of that report will be soon brought into legislative form. 
I believe that the relatively small but useful amendments which this Bill provides will make the Family Court a more effective instrument than it has been already. Together with  Senator Button,  I believe that the Family Court has been responsible for very great achievements and that it has worked remarkably well. It has had its difficulties. It has had an inbuilt problem because of delays which have had to be endured. It has other problems, such as the one I have mentioned of a lack of staff. Nonetheless, I believe it has been responsible for substantial achievement. It is staffed by some very able people both on the side of the judiciary and on the side of the officers who work in that court. I believe that what we are doing today is improving the legislation in some respect. There is more that needs to be done, such as the matters which have been recognised by the Family Law Council and which I hope will soon come into legislative form. Nevertheless I welcome this Bill as a useful contribution to the work of the court. 
Tonight some other senators and I want to raise a matter which, as far as I know, has not been the subject of any real consideration by either of the chambers of this Parliament. It concerns a country or a district known as Eritrea, which has suffered 17 years of war and which has been virtually ignored by most of the countries of the world with perhaps the exception of the Soviet Union, which is now directing operations for Ethiopia to subdue that territory, and some other countries which have supplied arms for the suppression of that state. Eritrea is a long way from Australia, but a number of us have had representations from Australians who have put it to us that there is a substantial reason why Australia should take an interest in the concerns of 3te million people who live in the northern part or district of Ethiopia, whom the Ethiopians claim they have to control and who claim for themselves the right to self-determination. They have fought for a long time to obtain their own independence. They were taken over by the Italians before the Second World War. They were freed by Britain in, I think, 1941 and later they came under United Nations control. It is interesting to know the history of these people. They are not entirely united in religion or views because there are Christians, Arabs and Moslems among them and their politics are different, but for 17 years they have been maintaining an heroic struggle for independence and dignity under the most trying circumstances. 
It is claimed that the Eritreans have an historical, legal and moral right to nationhood. This is maintained in an article in the  New Statesman  by John Pilger, who has been there and knows the situation. In that article, which appeared on 12 January this year, he stated: 
In 19S2 Britain, which had administered Eritrea after driving out the Italians, supported a United Nations decision that Eritrea would be constituted as an autonomous unit federated with Ethiopia. 
The Eritreans were forced into that situation. They felt they had no friends. The graphic words of this writer were: 
Eritrea's 'mistake' is to be allied with no one, to go it completely alone, to grow its own socialism, to have no political debts. 
It has a simple form of socialism. It has no practical economy at present, but it is a country which was forced into this situation. The article continues: 
When, in 1962, Haile Selassie - 
The then ruler and controller of Ethiopiaattacked and annexed Eritrea, abolished its parliament, bombed its towns and villages, banned its languages and murdered thousands of its partisans, the Western powers did nothing - 
That has been common to the present day. The article continues: 
Ethiopia, with its American communications bases, was then firmly in the Western 'camp'. 
We know that this was not the situation later. Ethiopia overthrew the dictatorship of Haile Selassie and substituted a Marxist dictatorship of a particularly virulent nature. It is one in which there has been Red terror, in which thousands have been murdered and which has led very largely to the breakdown of the economy of that country and its excursions into other parts known as the Ogaden for its own aggrandisement. 
The fact is that, since the time when by force the existing rights of the people of Eritrea were taken away, they have fought, and had a great deal of success, to maintain their right to selfdevelopment But the situation has been that in that period of years there has been tremendous unhappiness, death and destruction in that country. Some 300,000 of the people have been displaced since 1975 alone. I think most of those people are now refugees in the Sudan where they are receiving some assistance from a world charity. 
In Australia and overseas there are Eritrean relief committees. I will say little about them because  Senator Tate,  who is a member of the Australian committee, no doubt will say more. In its recent publications it has pointed out that in the last few years there has been a change, that the Soviets and the Cubans have changed sides. They have now become allies of the Ethiopians and have directed operations. They are proceeding not only in an attempt to defeat and take away the rights of these people but also to cause genocide. It is clear from the evidence before me that they wish to destroy the people in that country and do not wish them to have a government of their own, a language of their own, or powers and rights of their own. The 17 year struggle has been bitter and has been accompanied by the destruction of homes, crops, property and the means of livelihood for hundreds of thousands of people. As I have said, 300,000 of those have left the country. I regret to say that during this time the Western powers to our shame have made no real progress. There is unfortunately no real economic interest in Eritrea. It is not a country that has those sorts of supplies. I am afraid that neither the United States nor other powers have made any attempt to assist in this regard. The present situation is described by the Eritrean Relief Committee as follows: 
So far in large areas, especially north of Asmara in the highlands, most of the crops, now dry and ripe for harvest, have been burnt to ashes. 
They have been burnt and destroyed by aeroplanes which have come across and damaged them. The report goes on to state: 
Close to 40 villages of populations of about 1,000 persons have been totally ruined and over 100 more have suffered big damages; close to 5,000 civilians are reported dead and seriously wounded; 8,000 getting medical treatment. Heavy military activities, east and north of Asmara, have forced 60,000 people to abandon their homes and flee to safer areas in the north. About 40,000 have been evacuated from Keren - 
That is a town which has been taken in the Russian-led offensive in the last few months - and its surrounding areas alone. As a direct and immediate result of the present Ethiopian offensive - 
That is the one in the last few months- therefore, a total of 100,000 persons have been displaced and made homeless. 
The situation is, of course, that the Marxist government of Ethiopia, with support and effectively armed by the Russians and Cubans and led by Russian generals, has proceeded to endeavour to occupy the area and destroy what remains of the resistance. They have not succeeded in doing this so far. These activities have not been unobserved by impartial international organisations over the years. A report which Amnesty International made in November 1978 on Ethiopia described the reign of terror which exists there. It also went on to state: 
Although there were serious violations of human rights in Ethiopia under the Haile Selassie Government, under the Provisional Military Government there has developed since 1974 a consistent pattern of gross violations of fundamental human rights. 
The report states that this has gone on for four years. It continues: 
The 'Red Terror' campaign had come to an end, and by mid 1978 the large-scale arrests and killings associated with it were no longer taking place. However, Amnesty International has learnt that arrest and torture continue, and that there are still large numbers of political prisoners, whose conditions are not known to have improved. 
That applies to Ethiopia as well as to the occupied territories of Eritrea, and no doubt will continue until international pressure comes to bear on Ethiopia. I think it is also of particular significance that in the course of the warfare that has been waged, these people have been getting little or no assistance in their military campaign but they are capturing weapons from the Ethiopians.  Mr Pilger  's article gives the following example: 
Napalm B, which sucks to human skin and fries to the bone, often over a period of weeks; cluster bombs, whose myriad needles 'swim' through human flesh and organs and are difficult to detect even under X-ray and often cause slow death; defoliant poisons, such as 2, 4, 5-T, which destroy vegetation 'deaden' the earth and sow the seeds of human mutations for generations, and more. 
To my tremendous surprise I found a description of the cluster bombs which are used in an article again written by  Mr Pilger  a little earlier in July of last year, and likewise printed in the same journal. He had this to say: 
Last month, in Eritrea, a village called Hergego was cluster bombed shortly after dawn by Ethiopian MIG-21 jets supplied by the Soviet Union. The cluster bombs, supplied by Israel, spray minute needles that are designed to 'swim' through flesh and organs and are difficult to detect, even under X-ray, and cause a slow death. 
I am indeed sad, as one who is a great admirer of the Israeli people, to find that Israel has supplied considerable supplies to Ethiopia enabling her to help wage this war. These are matters of economics as far as countries are concerned, but they are matters of death and destruction for the people who thereby suffer. The position, is that in this particular country with these people huddling in refugee areas, there is a tremendous feeling and a great deal of resistance. As I read the various articles before me I see that there is no doubt about the fact that the wounded have terrible supplies in the form of hospitals, doctors and so forth. These are hardly available. People must be left to die because they are bombed and only a certain number can be saved. Supplies are not available. Schools continue and these people are determined to keep up with their language and culture. In fact it is called the Nation of the Night because it is during the night that people proceed to educate their children in order to keep their country going. 
There is, as I have said, destruction of crops and these people are suffering a very great problem with famine. Surely it is of great concern to us that in this day Australia is providing some supplies to Ethiopia but not to these people. We are supplying some 10,000 tonnes of grain to Ethiopia. Ethiopia, partly due to the folly of its own behaviour, is suffering a great deal of famine and its economy has largely broken down. Very little has been supplied- nothing by us- to the Eritrean people. This has been a matter for discussion by other countries in the west. Eritrea has received hardly a mention from Western countries. The article to which I referred earlier states as follows: 

 Dr David Owen dutifully followed a speech by  President  Carter in Nigeria earlier this year with his own verbal leg slap for the Russians, Cubans and Ethiopians. 
It then proceeds: 
This speech was much acclaimed for its bellicosity, but it amounted to nothing; last month the Foreign Office made publicly clear that it was 'not policy' to extend humanitarian aid to 'unrecognised states' such as Eritrea. Judith Hart, the 
Overseas Development Minister, has since tried to help by promising to send money through the International Red Cross in Geneva. 
The amount was the very small sum of $ 1 50,000. I do not think we have supplied anything to this day to help in this plight. I believe that Australia with its reputation and record for helping refugees at least should be helping the refugees who have left the country. I believe also that because of its aid to Ethiopia it should be bringing international pressure to bear on Ethiopia to stop this genocide which is occurring in this corner of the world. It is an international atrocity which has been going on for 16 years. I hope that we might be able to interest members of the Parliament and the Government in taking an interest in this country. There are 3,500,000 people. That is not very many people. In Australia there are not many people. But I believe they are all people who are entitled to live and make their own decisions. They have very few friends in the world and I hope that they will soon have more. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I draw the Minister's attention to the comments made by  Mr Bert  Kelly, a former member of the House of Representatives, at the National Agricultural Conference on 2 February 1979. Is the Minister aware that  Mr Kelly  has called on the Commonwealth Government to close down the tobacco industry in Australia so that the Government can trade off cuts in the tariff on United States tobacco imports for lower United States duties on Australian wool? Is the Minister aware also of a recent Capital Territory Health Commission report which claims that cigarette smoking is costing Australia $800m a year in medical bills, lost production through absenteeism and fires caused by cigarettes? In view of this, will the Minister comment on  Mr Kelly's  claim that tobacco growers are costing the Australian taxpayer $80 a hectare of production? Does the Minister agree with  Mr Kelly's  novel suggestion that the nation would be financially better off without an indigenous tobacco industry? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. My attention has been drawn to recent criticism by the Mining Industry Council and the Queensland Government of the Heritage Commission Act and the subsequent review, ordered by the Prime Minister, of this vitally important Act. Will the Minister explain the nature of the inquiry? Will he assure the Senate that the principles enshrined in the Act and the powers of the Heritage Commission will be fully maintained by this Government? Since the Heritage Commission Act was adopted by Parliament in 1975 with the support of all parties, will the Minister also explain why the inquiry is being conducted by a departmental commitee and not by a committee of the Parliament itself? 
by leave- I join with other speakers in paying a tribute to Eric Bessell who left us some years ago. I regret that he has died at an early age. I knew him when he was a member of the organisation of the Liberal Party and know of the very devoted work he gave to the Party over many years, not only in Tasmania but also in the Australia-wide organisation. Many people are in his debt for that work. I knew him particularly in the short period in which he was a member of the Senate. I entered the Senate with him and sat with him. We shared neighbouring desks during that period. I, therefore, had the opportunity to getting to know Eric Bessell for the man that he was. He was a very sincere and honest man. He was very thoughtful and kind to those with whom he was associated. He had a very deep knowledge of rural matters and was intensely interested in all the wide areas of that experience. 
As I said, he was a most sincere man. He left the Senate after a very short period. He performed in the Senate most creditably and honourably. He had a narrow loss in the end. It does not matter how long a person is in the Senate. If his record is a good one, if he leaves the Senate with his head held high, he leaves behind him the memories of friends and associates and people who realise that he is a worthy Australian citizen. Eric Bessell was that and I pay a great tribute to him for the life and service which he gave to the country and to the Senate. 
I  present the following petition from 1 8 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension payments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of A. W.E. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The Acting Clerk-  Petitions have been lodged for presentation as follows: 
I present the 64th report from the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances relating to the principles which the Committee adopts in its scrutiny of delegated legislation. 
Ordered that the report be printed.  Mr Deputy President,  I ask for leave to make a brief statement and to give a notice of motion in relation to the report. 
Leave granted. 
-In this report the Regulations and Ordinances Committee informs the Senate that it has modified the four principles which it has adopted since 1932 in its scrutiny of delegated legislation. The revised principles are intended to reflect the present practices of the Committee. The original 1932 principles were adopted with the concurrence of the Senate and it is therefore my intention to move that this report be adopted by the Senate so that the revised principles will have the Senate's approval. The Committee wishes to give senators time to read the report before the motion for its adoption is moved. On the other hand, the Committee would like the motion for the adoption of the report to be passed as soon as possible because the Committee is at present considering an Australian Capital Territory ordinance which it may wish to report to the Senate on the basis of the revised principles. I therefore intend to give a notice of motion for the adoption of the report. This notice will gain precedence over other General Business notices of motion and should therefore be considered on Thursday evening of next week. I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the 64th report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, relating to the principles of the Committee, be adopted. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Science and the Environment or alternatively to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. It relates to the use of the herbicides 2,4-D and 2,4,5-T and to the inadequate investigations so far conducted into their effect on the health of those who come into contact with them. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a recent Australian Workers Union survey which revealed that 25 per cent of respondents complained of nausea, dizziness, headaches and more serious illnesses which may be related to their exposure to 2,4-D and 2,4,5-T? Is he familiar with the Melbourne  Age  article of 14 February 1979 indicating that at least six workers compensation cases involving these herbicides have been lodged in Victoria? Will the Minister comment on this disturbing survey, and does he agree that the consistency of these complaints is quite concerning evidence of the possible danger of exposure to these herbicides? I refer the Minister to his answer to a question from me on 3 May 1 978. He said: 
Under current circumstances there appears to be no justification for further restricting the availability of these materials. 
With yet another example of public concern being highlighted by the finding of this survey, will the Minister agree that there is now justification for restricting the handling of them? What inquiries are presently being made by the Minister's Department into the safety of these herbicides? Will the Minister assure the Senate that efforts will be made to restrict the use of them until more adequate investigations, particularly into malformations at birth, are made? 
-Today we have heard an extraordinary series of speeches by the Opposition on a motion of urgency which, for the benefit of those who may be listening, it is important to read, so that they will know what it is that we have been talking about. It is suggested that the following is a matter of urgency: 
The need for an independent inquiry into the conduct of Government officials in the investigation and subsequent treatment of pensioners and beneficiaries in the alleged New South Wales social security frauds. 
This proposal has been castigated by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  and the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  for what it is, namely an interference with and a clumsy attempt to cash in on proceedings which are to commence on Monday. It is a shameful demonstration of the Opposition's desire to cash in on these trials which are about to proceed. 
I am saying that you are to be judged by your own actions. If the honourable senator looks at the motion, the so-called need for an inquiry is into the conduct of government officials, into the investigation which has led to these proceedings being undertaken and into the alleged social security frauds. Therefore, it is an attempt to try, and to discuss, in this House matters which are properly within the province of a court and which will be proceeded with in a court. It is a disgrace that the Opposition is probably damaging the interests of the people who have to stand trial. Probably the Opposition's actions are also damaging the interests of the Greek community. 
It took a long time in this debate today for senators to find out the purpose of the motion. It was only the castigation by the Attorney-General that brought finally an explanation from  Senator Evans  that this independent investigation might give us an opportunity to change the law of defamation; that recommendations might come forward. Of course, he invited me to go off on a wild goose chase after his own interesting explanation of defamation, which I have no intention of doing. The matter is one that has been looked at by the Law Reform Commission. It is one which is still within the Commission's jurisdiction. It has made only tentative proposals in regard to defamation law. Apparently the idea of the Opposition is that there should be an independent inquiry. Actually, it is designed not to do justice for people but is a way in which the Opposition hopes to obtain reform of the defamation laws. That is about the only worth that one can see in this proposal. 
We have had a constant pattern by the Opposition in regard to this question of the security frauds. The Opposition keeps raising this matter. There is humbug and there is hypocrisy in saying today how terrible it is that the media has played up these matters, when the Opposition is actually playing them up itself by the reference to the putting of the word 'Greek' or 'Greece' in front of someone. That action was castigated by the Minister and rejected by the Government as something which should not be allowed to happen again. 
The honourable senator knows as well as I do that, firstly, it was said that the word 'Greek' was not used. The word turned out to be Greece. That was not, I think, a frank answer to a question. No doubt it has been dealt with in the proper place. It should be dealt with through ministerial responsibility, through to the officers who may make such mistakes. 
I have no guarantee, sir. No doubt the honourable senator will find out whether action has been taken. In this Parliament, as the honourable senator well knows, the Minister is subject to questioning. In her honest answers to questions the Minister has made very clear that the Government will not tolerate this type of conduct and that it should not be repeated. Yet today Opposition speakers have sought to drag forward this most unfortunate example of the misuse of a person's race or description. Opposition senators seek to bring it up. They ought not to blame just the media. Their own actions thereby inflame parts of the media into thinking that there is something important in what they are saying. As members of the Opposition, they are deemed to have a certain degree of responsibility. Opposition members have followed a constant pattern of raising this subject. To do so does not help those who have to stand trial, which they are entitled to do with some degree of freedom. 
In addition, we have had an interesting example of the workings of the Westminster system of government. One of the interesting things that was said by  Senator Gietzelt-  although I am amazed that, in view of what happened today, he had the audacity to talk about it- was that what was involved here was a fundamental question of ministerial responsibility. He went on to speak about the Minister being a very nice person, which, of course, we all know. We are told: What is involved is ministerial responsibility. That is what happens in this Parliament'. It is for the Minister to accept responsibility for the actions of officials and to take necessary action, which she does if those actions are not justified. 
The proper course is not to appoint an independent inquiry into the conduct of officials which would decide that something should be done. To suggest at this stage that such an inquiry would be desirable is, of course, ridiculous. As has already been said, it is a matter which would conflict fundamentally with the fact that, at the present moment, matters are before courts; people are to be tried. I have no doubt that, in the course of those trials, the conduct of officials and whether there has been maladministration of any sort will be examined by persons competent to defend those who are on trial before a judge or whoever will hear their cases. Therefore, what the Opposition has done today conflicts with the principle of ministerial responsibility- I repeat, it is the responsibility of the Minister to deal with officials- and is an insult to the courts that are proceeding to hear these cases. 
No, I do not suggest that  Senator Grimes  do nothing; I suggest that he improve his performance in future. Let me talk about his performance in this case. Yesterday he had the great misfortune to fall so flat on his face that he has not yet come up for air. In the course of the questioning which  Senator Grimes  started he endeavoured to suggest that the DirectorGeneral of Social Security,  Mr Lanigan,  who was present at the Commonwealth Police headquarters on 2 April 1978, was engaged in an operation dealing with alleged social security frauds. 
The honourable senator should wait until I come to deal with him and not jump in ahead of his turn. I thought that today  Senator Cavanagh  asked a fair and honest question and got a fair and honest answer. 
Yes, so the honourable senator should be happy. He did not indulge in the same dishonest argument that some of his colleagues engaged in yesterday. 
-AU right, senator, I will not praise you any more. I will not take up any more of the time of the Senate. I have said that  Senator Cavanagh  did a good job.  Senator Grimes  tried to suggest the involvement of the Minister's officers in the Commonwealth Police investigation. Honourable senators should note the deceitful word 'involvement'. What does 'involvement' mean? Its meaning is vague but  Senator Grimes  hoped to get something more from it. He knew what question he had previously asked and he knew what answer he had received but, nonetheless, continued to use that expression. Yesterday there was a series of questions which were intended to discover something very 'wicked ' on the part of  Mr Lanigan  but this attempt failed.  Senator Evans  then followed on from  Senator Grimes's  original question about involvement. 

 - Senator Evans did not do any better or cover himself in any more glory. He wanted to know whether there had been any officer involved but, unfortunately for the Opposition, he received an answer which ruined the whole episode because the Minister - 
He did not do very well at all because he then discovered that the original question which  Senator Grimes  had asked was in the following terms: 
Did any senior officer or officers of her Depanment accompany the Police Force on these raids? 
-That was the question which  Senator Grimes  tried to distort. The Minister replied to it. 
The letter which she wrote put the record straight, that is, that nobody accompanied the Commonwealth Police in the operations in which 175 people were arrested and subsequently charged with conspiracy. 
I will read the next sentence. Do have patience. It reads: 
Both the Director-General of my department and the Commissioner of Commonwealth Police,  Mr Davis,  have advised me that no officer of the department was involved in these activities. 
No, I will not read any more. The Minister was so kind as to read the next paragraph yesterday. It has no relevance but it is recorded in  Hansard.  It is clear that  Senator Grimes  endeavoured to entrap the Minister into suggesting that her officers were involved in raids. It is clear that that did not happen and it was made clearer when the Minister today answered  Senator Cavanagh's  question. It is also clear that this is not the same matter on which  Senator Grimes  received an answer some months ago. Consequently, the Opposition attempted yesterday to put over this petty fraud and create what  Senator Gietzelt  described today as one of the great scandals of government since 1975. I must admit that we have been pretty short of scandals since 1975. We have to go back beyond 1975 to find any real scandals. The Opposition cannot concoct something out of this incident. Although its demonstration yesterday was useless and futile, today honourable senators opposite came back for more medicine. 
If there has been any maladministration there is an Ombudsman in this country whose job it is to investigate such matters. People have made complaints arising out of these incidents to the Ombudsman who has the power to deal and will deal quickly with such matters. It is to the Ombudsman that people should take their complaints. They should not be taken to an independent inquiry which the Opposition wants to set up, an inquiry which will obstruct the course of justice in this country and interfere with matters which are being litigated. I remind honourable senators of the statement made recently by the Minister for Social Security and Archbishop Stylanos. In that statement they said: 
The Greek community had made an important contribution to Australia. The good name of the community should not in any way be affected by charges which had been made against a relatively small number of people. The  Senator and His  Eminence deplored the sensationalising of the matter in some of the media. 
The Archbishop in stressing the moral aspect of the matter expressed his vivid interest in seeing truth and justice dominate the whole procedure. 
That ought to be the purpose of this House. It should not be for us to interfere with the rights of the community or to sit in pre-judgment of matters which are before courts and will there be considered. We should be satisfied that justice is done and that matters which are the responsibility of the Minister are dealt with in this chamber by way of questions which the Minister will answer fairly. There is nothing in the allegations that have been made today and I believe that it would be disgraceful and disastrous to have an independent inquiry at this stage. There is not the slightest justification for Opposition senators bringing forward this proposal and the best thing to do is to relieve their party of the embarrassment which they have caused it. Therefore, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
-I will decline the offer of the Minister for Science and the Environment to start again- I will not: I will go on from where I left off. I support the idea and I am glad to hear that there is room for discussion in this matter because it seems to me quite unnecessary that there should be merely one hour for Question Time. I had a question for the Minister for Science and the Environment today; he knew nothing about it, and he never knows - 
-No, that is not right. Sometimes I and other honourable senators give Ministers some forewarning because we want some information particularly when they represent another Minister. 
You would be surprised to hear that we sometimes do get information. As far as this is concerned, I just want to answer what  Senator Georges  and  Senator Cavanagh  have said. Question Time is not just for Opposition senators; it is not just for them. I never ask any Dorothy Dix questions; I never have and never will in this Parliament. There is information that we as back bench members want to obtain from governments for our constituents as do Opposition senators. I put that on the record because it is suggested that this is a matter just for the benefit and convenience of Opposition senators; it is not. I know that Government senators feel unhappy about the short time which they have to ask questions, about long answers and so forth. I think that we ought to investigate this. I suggest that it is well within the competence of the Senate to change the Standing Orders and to extend the period of Question Time. I hope that that will be done. 
-in reply- I wish to speak in reply in this debate. I find myself in agreement with all speakers on some major matters that are in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I think it is very easy in reply perhaps to forget that what is accepted, as  Senator Rae  said in the end, is that there seems to be a fairly common agreement that there is a need for a committee such as has been recommended to undertake scrutiny. I will leave aside for the moment the question of whether it should be a joint committee or a committee of this House or, I suppose, the House of Representatives. The report not only sets out the need for scrutiny, which we believe exists but also points out also that at the moment things are not done and many Bills pass through both Houses of Parliament without effective scrutiny and with clauses that need to be amended. 
In the rough and tumble of debate we tend to overlook the very important issues of civil liberties which are not central to the matter at issue between the major parties in the two Houses. Consequently, anyone who tries to concentrate on a debate on those aspects is swept aside in the general flurry of party debate. I must say that we have some agreement on the need for a committee and, I take it mainly from the silence, that we have some general agreement on the criteria which have been set down for such a committee. In its general operation it should have the services of counsel and appropriate facilities. It should be able to move in a speedy way so that it does not hold up legislation or the Government's program, but at the same time achieves effective scrutiny. 
In the debate a difference has developed between  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Rae  on the one side and  Senator Evans  and myself on the other.  Senator Evans  and I expressed the view that all members of the Senate Committee -it was unanimous in its recommendations -have put before the Parliament. 
I am bowing and scraping all the time. I am searching everywhere for wisdom. I praised  Senator Cavanagh  yesterday. I am sorry I cannot do it two days in a row. I cannot support the view which has been expressed about the important separateness of the two Houses, the apartheid concept, of Parliament. I agree that the two Houses have separate functions, but in this parliamentary democracy they also have similar functions. Whereas  Senator Rae  happily accepts the name of 'Senate chauvinist' I for one will not do that. I do not believe the Senate is all powerful and has all wisdom. I believe that we are all elected as members of parliament. We are given some separate jobs. We have separate concentrations. But it does not mean that there are not areas where there is a very common interest. One area that is of particular common interest is the passage of legislation through the Parliament. It is just as much the responsibility of the House of Representatives to try to make the Bill as good a Bill as it can be before it leaves its doors as it is for us. It is not much satisfaction to me to find that nothing has been done, that there has been no Committee stage, in the House of Representatives and that it has not perhaps looked at a Bill in detail. We then have to set about creating some difference between the two Houses because we have to alter the Bill here and send it back. Of course there will always be those differences but they should not be sought or wanted. If in fact we can get a Bill in good shape while it is in the House of Representatives- most of the Bills start in the House of Representatives- then I think we have done something for the legislative process and improved it. 
I would like to mention a couple of things that were mentioned in the course of the debate today. When  Senator Cavanagh  spoke on a previous occasion he said he was concerned primarily with the fact that a joint committee was suggested. He said: 
I do not think such a committee would be suitable. The Senate, as a House of review, has the responsibility to pick out the defects in legislation. 
This was his statement in the debate here on 1 March. I do not regard that as just the responsibility of the Senate. It is our responsibility to pick out and pick up defects and try to improve legislation where it is necessary. What I have in mind is that it ought to be done at an early stage in debate. That is, of course, the purpose of the joint committee and the working on the Bills when they enter the House of Representatives, before they are debated there before they are brought here and before we anticipate a debate here.  Senator Cavanagh  went on to say: 
Therefore, if we had a committee which was advised by outside legal counsel who would point out the defects, we would be in a position to reject the legislation. 
That is true but of course it is also true that one would expect that counsel employed in this way would have the primary purpose of trying to suggest improvements and trying to avoid the possibility of rejecting legislation where this is not necessary. He went on to say: 
I do not know why it has been recommended that a joint committee be established. 
With respect to  Senator Cavanagh,  if he read the two reports carefully, surely the reason must come forward. I know  Senator Rae  has said that there were only two problems that we were bringing forward as reasons for the joint committee. The first is that existing Senate committees would be fully loaded with work. That is a practical problem that was indeed one of the reasons that impressed itself upon the Committee. The second one was that most legislation originates in the House of Representatives and the Senate deals with it at a later stage. These points are far from being the only matters which were raised in these two Committee reports. 
We have in mind, of course, that there will be a very quick consideration; that in fact there will be a committee that works quickly.  Senator Cavanagh  said that a joint committee would be bogged down because of size. Tonight  Senator Rae  said something similar. He said that a joint committee would be swamped by numbers and the influence of the House of Representatives. Both were overlooking the fact that in these reports we make the strong recommendation that it should be a small committee. It should not be a committee of size. We have suggested four members from each of the Houses. It could be that the House of Representatives would want more people but I do not know that that is necessary. In fact the view of the Committee was quite strong. It wanted a smallish committee and suggested that eight would be a suitable number. Those eight people would develop an expertise as members of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee have in this Senate over the years. Service on committees would equip them to look for things in the legislation and they would be able to call upon the assistance and suggestions of their fellow members in both Houses at a time when these problems of civil liberties are being looked at. 
We know that one of the problems of reports that come down in one House is that they are very often not looked at. They are not seen and they are not always distributed in the other House. If they are, in fact, presented to both Houses, if the committees making the reports consist of members from both Houses, then we may be sure that there is much more chance of their being looked at by both Houses, at an early stage without members having to wait. As honourable senators know, we wait until a Bill comes into this House and then we start to look at it and think about it. How often do honourable senators really give a great deal of consideration to Bills? Since  Senator Wright  retired from our ranks, there are few-Senator Cavanagh is perhaps one- who have the time and who do in fact get down to looking at the defects of a Bill when it is in the other House. It may well be amended and changed considerably in that House. People do not prepare amendments and consider these things. But if it is the job of that joint committee, and a new committee at that, then I believe it will achieve quite considerable results in improving legislation. 
I have said and I repeat that there are reasons well set out in these reports why the existing committees of the Senate are not suitably placed to do this job. All the standing committees of the Senate taking on the appropriate Bills would have two effects. One is that there would be no real experience gained over the whole area. In fact some committees would only very occasionally have a Bill that comes to its attention. Others, for example the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee, would have a considerable number of Bills- perhaps in the Treasury areabut on the whole there would not be any even distribution of work between the Senate committees. 
Suppose you chose to do it as was suggested by  Senator Rae  with the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, a committee which already is acting at high speed and which has had a great deal of work in a period when subordinate legislation has become very intense, where it is meeting sometimes more than once a week for the purpose of trying to deal with one area alone. If we were to give that Committee two roles, two jobs, and presumably two counsel to advise itbecause you could not expect the existing counsel to be able to handle both- I would suggest that that would be a quite inadequate way of overloading a committee which has a good reputation and may result in the committee failing to do its job effectively. The very nature of the job and the necessity for a committee like this to have contact with Ministers, most of whom are in the House of Representatives, and for members of the Ministry to send their representatives before the Committee to discuss the details at an early stage, are matters which naturally call for a joint committee. I do not believe that we should think in this place that we can always solve the problems of legislation. We cannot anticipate all that might happen. We cannot try to impose upon the House of Representatives, through a committee of the Senate, our suggestions for variations of their Bills. I think we will soon find that psychologically - 
-I do not think there will be any wishy-washy compromise because of the differences. You might expect a wishy-washy compromise from the Regulations and Ordinances Committee because it has four Government members and three members from the Labor Party. You might expect that, but it does not work that way. It does not work on party lines, nor do I believe - 
We have robust compromises, that is true, and all kinds of minorities on occasions which have nothing to do with party political matters. At the same time you would find that a committee like this would not divide on House of Representatives and Senate lines. That has not been the experience of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. I do not believe it would be the experience of a small and expert joint committee such as is proposed. 
What we are doing tonight, of course, is debating a motion to take note of the papers. We are not making any final decision on the matter. I trust that we will hear from the Government at a very early stage. I hope that the Government will not take the whole six months in which we have been promised a response on the reports generally. This surely is one matter which is of concern to the Parliament and one which should be considered at an early stage, bearing in mind that the point of dispute, even in this chamber, is on a narrow plain. It is in connection with the committee as a joint committee or a separate one, but does not concern other areas which have been raised in this report. I hope that this matter will soon come to the attention of the Government and receive a positive answer by the Government and by both Houses of Parliament so that we can do something to improve the legislation of this country. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services and refers, as I have referred on previous occasions, to the absence of air-conditioning in Commonwealth motor vehicles and to the resultant discomfort suffered by both passengers and drivers who spend long hours in the vehicles, particularly in warm climates. I ask: Is it true that of all the vehicles in the Commonwealth fleet throughout Australia, approximately only 10 per cent are airconditioned? Am I also correct in understanding that those vehicles which do enjoy airconditioning are all Ministers' cars? Is the Minister aware that ordinary Commonwealth vehicles are used to transport repatriation and other hospital patients? Does he believe that it is indeed an injustice that patients must suffer this extra discomfort during the hot summer months? Does the Minister agree that the inclusion of airconditioners in newly-acquired vehicles would substantially increase their resale value on replacement? If so, why is it that he or his predecessors have repeatedly rejected requests from the Transport Workers Union of Australia for air-conditioners to be installed in motor vehicles on the ground that comfort has to be considered against cost? In the interests of public health and safety, when will the Minister authorise the installation of air-conditioning in all Commonwealth vehicles? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. No doubt his attention has been drawn to an article which appeared in the  Age  on 13 March 1979 relating to the disturbing reports by Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation entomologist,  Dr Phil  Carne, that much of Australia's pastoral country could become a gum tree graveyard. Is the Minister aware of reports of trees in open pasture in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and South Australia dying off after defoliation? Is the Minister aware that insects which once lived in harmony with eucalyptus in their natural state are now killing them? What action does the Minister propose to take to ensure that major changes in the environment are not made without first considering the effect they will have on local species of plants and animals, so that our nation's natural beauty may be preserved? 
-I have much pleasure today in refuting the attack and the stupid allegations which have been put before the Parliament and the people that there has been in some way a failure by the Victorian Government to exercise proper control in the expenditure of federal funds. I do that as a member of the Liberal Party of Australia, which has constituted the government in Victoria for a record period, which has provided the people of Victoria with excellent service and which, I believe, will continue to do so with great success in the coming years. I believe that what we have heard today is another example of the practice of the Australian Labor Party to attack and to vilify under privilege of Parliament. In this instance it does so despite any of the findings of the Gowans inquiry. It ignores the fact that none of the allegations were found to be justified and that the attacks on Ministers of the Victorian Government were shown to be completely false. Let us recall again what was said about the Gowans report in the statement made to the Victorian Parliament by  Mr Hamer.  He said: 
The inquiry found no impropriety, no breach of law or duty, no act of negligence or dishonesty on the part of any Minister, nor of any Commissioner of the Victorian Housing Commission. 
Nobody who knew the people involved would have expected any other result ... 
This is what  Mr Hamer  said, and it is unrefuted. He went on:  . . but I rejoice with them that the inquiry has found not the slightest evidence to support the campaign of innuendo and vilification which was directed against them. 
That campaign is continued by members of the Australian Labor Party here today. They continue to make the allegations which were made at the inquiry, tested on evidence by a former judge of the Victorian Supreme Court, and found to be wanting. It is not surprising that this should be done, because representatives of the Labor Party, in Victoria have decided to halve their State council. They have decided that at the end of this month they will not dare risk having any longer than one day of this three-headed monster which is the Victorian Labor Party- the socialist Left, the so-called middle that  Senator Evans  apparently supports, and the Right, where  Senator Button  is alleged to be. These very curious little groups that make up the Labor Party are not to be allowed to talk publicly about these and other matters. The Labor Party has cut its conference to one half, and surely that is an indication of why honourable senators opposite make their accusations today. Instead of making allegations in public they come to Cowards' Castle and under the shadow of parliamentary privilege make allegations previously made. 
Let me look at one or two of these allegations. I will not spend the whole of my time looking at only part of the money which was spent so wisely over the years by the Victorian Government in the development of services for the people. However, I will deal with some aspects of expenditure on land.  Senator Wriedt  lead the debate for the Opposition. I think one could say that he has made another  Blue Hills  out of these allegations. He was followed today by  Senator Evans,  who proceeded to be 'Little  Sir Echo',  repeating the same allegations. Repeated, for example, were allegations that the Honourable Vernon Hauser, a very respectable member of the Victorian Parliament, had arranged sales and acted in some dishonourable way. That I refute. It has been refuted also in the Victorian Parliament. Of course, the allegation has been made here under the shadow of privilege. Other allegations have been made in relation to  Mr Riach  and another man who must stand trial for matters which have arisen out of the Gowan 's inquiry.  Senator Wriedt  made the extraordinary- I will not say lying', because that is unparliamentary- remark that there are 19 transactions with which these gentlemen were concerned and that only three have been investigated. What is meant to be inferred from that snide allegation? Three allegations were investigated, and findings were given. What is he saying about the other transactions. These sorts of remarks, I stress, should not be made by any responsible member in a responsible parliament. 
We are told about the Urban Land Council. We must remember that these loans were made during a period of raging inflation induced by the Whitlam Government and its mistaken policies, when some mistakes were made in purchases, and when prices went up very considerably. These mistakes are acknowledged, and they were found to be justified by the Gowans inquiry. The Government of Victoria has taken appropriate action to deal with them. As we know it has created a Land Purchasing and Sales Monitoring Division in the Department of Property and Services. That Division will ensure that purchases in excess of $100,000 are monitored. If there are any doubts about those purchases, they will be referred to Cabinet. The Victorian Government has set out in detail the way in which it proposes to ensure that land sales in future do not meet any of the problems which the Gowans inquiry found. 

 Senator Wriedt said that the Premier must take responsibility for what has happened in Victoria. The Premier has taken responsibility. The Premier has accepted leadership in Victoria. He has recognised where there are defects, and he has taken action to ensure that they do not recur. That is to his credit. It is very easy to say: 'We can ignore everything'. Doing what he actually did, in ensuring that there was an inquiry by an eminent judge and then taking notice of the results of that inquiry will earn him credit which I think the electors assume ought to be paid to him. The allegations that have been made today are old allegations. They have been heard and they have been dealt with. The people of Victoria are justified in saying that the Victorian Government has taken steps to ensure that mistakes which have occurred in administration, not mistakes such as those for which Ministers were found by the inquiry to be responsible, will be properly handled in the future. As for the gentlemen opposite who want to rely on the words of  Mr Jennings  and  Mr Francis,  two members who have left the Government or who have been - 
I put it in a nice way,  Mr President.  The Liberal Party certainly has expelled them. I voted for the expulsion of  Mr Jennings,  and I am proud of that fact. I believe it is perfectly proper that somebody disloyal to his whole Government in the way in which these two men were, should be removed from the party. It is a sign of the strength of the Victorian Liberal Party and signs of the strength of the Premier and his Ministers that they did not flinch at making their decisions. 
-No. I am able to look after myself quite well, thank you. I will never need  Senator Walsh's  help in my career. Honourable senators opposite have alleged a misuse of Federal funds in only one area. Federal funds are employed by all governments, and all governments have their problems. If anything I think the Victorian Government shines because of the way in which it maintained and met its objectives in a period of monetary stringency. Its objectives, as they still are in its present Budget have been to restrain departmental expenditure and insist on a strict economy and efficiency in all government departments and authorities, to reduce taxation and limit increases in government fees and charges as far as possible, and to maintain a maximum works effort and stimulate  economic  activity in employment in the private sector. If one looks at the Victorian Government Budget and looks at the way moneys have been handled in that State, one realises that it has achieved those objectives. It is true that the Victorian Government is a little more stringent than the Commonwealth Government in increasing expenditure this year. The Commonwealth Government increased its expenditure by 9.3 per cent; Victoria increased its expenditure by only 7.9 per cent, which indicates that, in a period of stringency, it has managed to act in a responsible way by using all the money available to it. It is because the Victorian Government has operated in this way that it can say that its achievement over recent years has been so outstanding among the States of Australia. Partly because of its use of Federal funds it has the highest average earnings of any State in Australia for full time employment. Victoria has the lowest rate of unemployment in Australia. Victoria has the highest savings bank deposits per head in Australia- $ 1 ,775 compared with a national figure of $1,300. Victoria has the highest rate of home ownership in the world. I think it is 79 per cent. That surely is a most significant factor. Victoria has the lowest road toll. Since 1 970 its death rate has dropped from 8. 1 to 4.6 per 10,000 vehicles, which is the lowest rate of any State. Victoria has the best ratio of teachers to pupils of any State. Victoria has 1,065 preschool centres which receive higher subsidies than those in any other State. I could give many other examples, but I point out finally that Victoria has the most comprehensive maternal and infant welfare service in Australia. Hearing those facts has caused silence opposite because those facts outline the real uses that are made of Commonwealth and State funds and indicate the proper administration of them. Those achievements have led to the Victorian Government being able to claim a proud record, which it will continue to be able to claim in the future. Implicit in the motion moved by the Opposition today is its concern to make a statement about how it would deal with federalism if it were in power. The motion claims that the following is a matter of urgency: 
The failure of the Victorian Government to exercise proper control in the expenditure of Federal funds. 
Implicit in the motion is the suggestion that the Labor senators know better; that they would like to tell the Victorian Government how to do better. In 1973 the Labor Government wanted to do different things in regard to loan funds. It wanted Victoria to do things the Labor Government's way. On many occasions Victoria has chosen to do things its way. I believe that the people of this country accept that the States should not have to take orders from the Commonwealth Government. Indeed, contrary to the suggestion which is implicit in this motion, the States should not have to accept control by the Commonwealth Government. The Beggs loan issue was raised. That is a matter in which the Victorian Government accounts, as do all States, for loans which are made. Audited statements are prepared and provided to the Commonwealth. But  Senator Evans  wanted to be able to tell the Victorian Government in advance what it should do, whether it was right or wrong in doing what its officers did, and whether they had obeyed his opinion on whether it should have provided a loan to a person, no matter who that person might be. That is the very way in which members of the Australian Labor Party in this Parliament and in Victoria want to control the people of Australia, particularly the people of Victoria. 
I have no doubt that the people of Victoria will not be confused. Many of them will remember when, back in 1973, the honourable member for Reid,  Mr Uren,  of whom we have heard today, flew over the Dandenongs in Victoria and said: This is what we've got to do. We mustn't have buildings here. We must adopt this plan '. He did not even stop at the Dandenongs; he just flew over them and came down with a plan which was to be implemented in Victoria. The Victorian people know that they do not have just to take orders. They know that the money which they as taxpayers have to spend- it is not federal or State money; it is the people's money, money which the taxpayer pays- is spent well by a government which is pledged to free enterprise and to the development and the security of the Victorian people. They know that such a government is a government which they will re-elect. I thank the Labor Party for drawing attention to the way in which it would control the States if it were in power. The socialist left brethren in Victoria of Labor Party senators are just waiting to get their hands on the Victorian people. I have no doubt that the Victorian people will recognise the foolishness of this motion and the foolishness of the Labor Party's plans and will defeat those plans in the 5 May election. 
-I rise to speak on the second reading of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill and to the other legislation which accompanies it. I am conscious of the fact that we are dealing now with very important legislation- perhaps among the most important Bills that will come before the Parliament this year. I am also conscious of the fact that there is something of a 'now or never' attitude which we must adopt so far as these Bills are concerned. The Bills seek to replace the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Act of 1956, a very small Act which did not spell out powers to any great degree. We have before us very elaborate provisions which seek to give enormous powers to the Director-General and officers of ASIO and therefore they must be considered carefully. But these provisions have to be considered even more carefully by reason of the fact that we know, in this Parliament, that questions are not answered in respect of ASIO matters and that it is not a matter, of course, in respect of which we obtain from time to time any great knowledge. We in this Parliament are not experts on the subject of ASIO. Consequently I think we have to be all the more careful in respect of the powers that we may give. 
Whilst I support many parts of the legislation which I consider to be substantial and valuable, I am concerned about a number of parts of it. I want to express my concern in the hope that my colleagues will be persuaded that there ought to be perhaps some amendment. I do not intend to go through all of the legislation or even to speak on the best parts of it. My colleague,  Senator Puplick,  in a speech which I think was one of the most distinguished contributions to this debate, set out the very great need for the security organisation with adequate powers. I substantially agree with the matters he raised. Therefore my speech will be somewhat unbalanced. I will deal mainly with critical matters that I think need to be brought to the attention of the Senate. 
The legislation sets out- and I am mainly dealing with the ASIO Bill- the powers of the Director-General and the functions and powers of the Organization. It sets out the new security assessment system and has staff provisions. It is, I think, important to realise that it quite substantially implements, but not wholly, the Hope reports- the reports which  Mr Justice  Hope presented to the Government after a great deal of consideration. But it must also be understood that the second, third and fourth reports omit a number of matters which  Mr Justice  Hope felt could not possibly be made public. The third report, in particular, is a very thin report in which only some parts of the recommendations are open to public gaze. Therefore, whilst these considerable powers of search, the provision for listening devices and for postal inspection are, I think, terrifying powers in a sense, it is better of course that they should be set out in a Bill and not left as they were in the past to assumed powers which officers of ASIO sometimes undertook and which were criticised to some extent in the Hope report. 
I believe that we should query these matters now in this Parliament. I note that we take on trust under a Bill like this the actions of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  and the Director-General. I have known for many years both persons who hold these positions. I have very great faith and confidence in them and I thereafter do not fear misuse of power in their hands. But at the same time we are a government of laws and not a government of men, as has been said on many occasions by philosophers and writers. Therefore, I think we must be conscious of the fact that we can have mistaken or unfortunate officers at times who hold such vital powers. The Americans have had some examples of that with their recent and late directors of the FBI. 
The public debate which has accompanied this legislation has been hurried and I think very sparse. There has been little contact of much use from organisations or from ordinary citizens. In fact some of the letters that I have received containing the most flamboyant criticisms of the Bill have asked for my views. Some of the writers of those letters have then failed to give me any address so that I could write and tell them. I therefore feel that the lack of public debate is something of which we in this Parliament must be conscious. Above all I say in this general statement about the legislation that we must be careful of the powers which are given because there is strong evidence in the Hope reports of the fact that there have been deficiencies in the past and that mistakes have been made.  Mr Justice  Hope on page 70 of the first volume of his fourth report talks about questions of the particular principles of propriety including legality to which ASIO should have regard in fulfilling its functions. He states: 
Material before me establishes that there have at times been departures by ASIO from these principles. The departures have been of varying significance. 
He goes on to say: 
I do not propose to deal with ASIO's transgression in detail. 
He does not do that in the public report. After referring to the 1949 charter which should have been complied with, he then says: 
But, beyond this, ASIO must always comply with the law. This second principle applies even though the matter with which ASIO is dealing relates to security. I have considered whether ASIO needs to operate in areas where, in the past, its operations were or may have been in breach of the law. Where it does I shall recommend changes in the law to confer or clarify the right to operate in those areas. But my recommendations shall include safeguards to ensure that ASIO does not exceed the recommended powers. 
Beyond compliance with the law, it is important that ASIO should establish for itself standards of propriety. 
On page 127 of the same report he goes on to speak of the Press and other media. He said: 
Evidence is available to me that satisfies me that ASIO has in the past provided selected people with security intelligence material for publication. 
The material provided was apparently drawn from information available in the public arena. It seems to have been ASIO's intention that the material be not attributed to it. 
He further criticises such activities in this way: 
It is no part of ASIO's intelligence dissemination function to publicise threats to security. Any DG of Security who reads sS ( 1 ) (a) of the ASIO Act as authority to engage in propaganda, however 'laudable', embarks on a misconceived enterprise. The likely result is to bring discredit to ASIO. 
A propaganda activity of this kind crosses the boundary between provision of information, which is proper, and the taking of a ' measure for security' which is not proper. 
I believe that ASIO has probably changed its direction. I believe that such actions that have been criticised, including the special projects section which no longer exists, would have been greatly changed under the present Director-General. We should remind ourselves of the judge's words: 
These functions, if exercised by ASIO, would be improper in the extreme. They are all the more so, since, in the past, ASIO officers have shown a tendency to think of anyone they choose to call 'left wing' as subversive. These practices, which have not been carried out for some years, must not be allowed to resume. 
I say in general that we must do what we can, in considering these Bills, to ensure that those practices do not resume. 
Having put those general views, I want to turn to the question of what I might call the freedom of information implications of this Bill. As  chairman  of a committee of this Senate which is at present looking into the Freedom of Information Bill I am certainly concerned with this aspect of the legislation. There is no doubt that these matters are important. It may, of course, be that ASIO either in whole or in part is excluded so far as its records are concerned from the operations of the Freedom of Information Bill. Nonetheless, I think we need to consider whether this is a desirable course because we know that that Bill is not yet finalised. We may, after the finalisation of that Bill, want to change this ASIO Bill to conform more particularly with it. In the course of his fourth volume,  Mr Justice  Hope referred to this general trend towards more open government. He said: . 
Submissions have been made to me that members of the public should have access to any records held by ASIO which relate to them, or at least to information as to the contents of those records. 
He refers to the submissions made based upon the Freedom of Information Act in the United States of America and he points out that even under that Act many of the records of ASIO would be confidential information. He speaks of those matters which still would be left in the public domain and says: 
I think that at present this is the limit to which it can reasonably be expected that disclosures should be made about security intelligence held by ASIO. I do not consider that a person who thinks that it may be suspected that he is a spy should be entitled to require ASIO to show him the records, or to give him the information, which relates to his case. 

 Mr Justice Hope says that in the future this may change. He states: 
. some classes of case will arise which will establish a need to enlarge the circumstances- 
The position may change quickly. When we consider the final Freedom of Information Bill we may want to have a greater disclosure of information. When we look at the clauses in this Bill, we realise that there is certainly a difference in approach in the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill to that which is contemplated in the present proposed wording of the Freedom of Information Bill. Of course, the present wording of the Freedom of Information Bill may not continue to be its final form. Clause 1 7 of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill sets out the powers and functions which the Organization should employ. It points out that its functions include:  for purposes relevant to security and not otherwise, to communicate any such intelligence to such persons, and in such manner, as are appropriate to those purposes;- 
Clause  18(3)  widens those purposes. It states that notwithstanding what is stated in paragraph 17, the Director-General may disclose information in certain circumstances to officers of police forces, to the Customs Officers and to the Office of National Assessments or the Minister. Therefore, such information may proceed to go overseas and be disclosed on a fairly wide basis. These are important questions of privacy with which the Freedom of Information Bill is concerned. Some worry exists about that clause. We must realise also that under clause 1 8 of the Bill there are strong prohibitions against the communication by an officer, and employee, contractor or 'person who has any agreement or arrangement with the Organization'- very wide terms indeed- against disclosing any information acquired in the course of his service or arrangements with ASIO. It must be realised that these are wider provisions than those contained in Section 70 of the Commonwealth Crimes Act, provisions which have been widely criticised. Many people have suggested that they ought to be watered down. Under the Crimes Act, an offence by an officer of the Public Service relates to the disclosure of information. The Section qualifies it as information which: 
It is his duty not to disclose. 
Those words do not appear in the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Act. We must recognise that the powers given in this Act are stronger. We must look further than that and realise that accidental disclosure could well create an offence. Other clauses of the Bill also contain freedom of information implications. Clause 57 forbids certain disclosure by or to the secretary of the Appeals Tribunal. I will talk about the Appeals Tribunal later. However, the AttorneyGeneral can give a certificate which can cause the refusal of information in certain circumstances to the Tribunal itself when sitting on appeal. Clause 79 creates offences in regard to the disclosure by a member or official of a Tribunal. Clause 90 forbids the publication of the identity of an officer, employee or agent of ASIO. The mere giving or disclosing of that information is in itself an offence. 
A general remark I make about these clauses is that the Freedom of Information Bill, as presently drafted, requires, in clause 28, that the only existing secrecy clauses that will continue are those that are prescribed by regulation. At some later stage we will have to consider in this Parliament under the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, as I hope it will then be, whether such provisions in this legislation cought to be continued in that form or whether they are too extreme in accordance with our views of freedom of information. 
Finally, we must bear in mind in respect of this freedom of information area what  Mr Justice  Hope said in the small part of his third report which was disclosed. He states in paragraph 42: 
The Australian intelligence community is fragmented, poorly co-ordinated and organized. The agencies lack proper guidance direction and control. They do not have good or close relations with the system of government they should serve. In some cases, they have lacked funds and other resources (for example, adequate staff) to do the jobs expected of them. In other cases they have used lack of funds as an alibi for not doing jobs they should have done. 
One presumes that much of that situation has been improved. But we should also bear in mind the warning Justice Hope gives in paragraph 46 of the report which states: 
Although operational secrecy is essential for the effective discharge of their duties by the agencies, they have suffered from unnecessary secretiveness in some of their activities which need not be secret. On the other hand, the climate of leaks' and 'disclosures' we have experienced lately is not to be taken lightly. 
We must bear those comments in mind when we look at the parts of this Bill which relate to freedom of information. 
Let me turn next to the position of the Director-General under this Bill and the whole question of parliamentary accountability. I recognise and applaud clause 7 of the Bill which provides that the Opposition shall be consulted before the appointment of the Director-General is made. I believe that this has been done in practice in the past and it is excellent that it is now incorporated in the present Bill. I welcome it. Clause 8 of the Bill, which deals with the powers of the Director-General, has been a subject of considerable criticism. It is a dual problem because it deals with the powers of the DirectorGeneral and points out that in regard to a particular individual it is not possible for the 
Attorney-General or any other Minister for that matter to give the Director-General directions as to whether he should investigate that particular person. It also needs to be pointed out that this clause is subject to the general direction of the Minister. There is a real problem for government and security organisations, namely, that we do not want to have a Director-General who is all powerful and not subject in some way to parliamentary control. But at the same time, we do not want political interference directed into the question of who should be investigated. I believe that the balance that is struck in this clause is quite sound and I have no quarrel with this clause. 
However, I do have some quarrel with respect to clause 9. It states that the term of office of the Director-General shall 'not exceed a period of seven years'. I point out that that does not mean a fixed period of seven years. It could be a period of only one year. It could be a renewal of his term for one year. It could well be that the DirectorGeneral does not have a term of office that one would hope he would have.  Mr Justice  Hope also made this statement in his fourth report: 
I think also that there is much to commend a principle of appointment to the office of Director-General for a stated period of years, perhaps five or seven. But appointments should be renewable, at the direction of the Government. 
But the Bill does not do that. I regret that this is the case. I believe that really the appointment should be for a fixed period so that there is security of tenure for the Director-General. 
Clause 20 is curious in that it states that the Director-General is to be free of influences and is not to show political partiality to any section of the community. It is a curious clause, but I suppose it is necessary to spell that out in the Bill. 
I think that much of the main criticism relates to the fact that ASIO really will not be accountable to the Parliament. I have long held the view that there ought to be a small parliamentary committee of distinguished and long serving members of Parliament to supervise some of the work and activity of ASIO. I believe that this has been advocated often but  Mr Justice  Hope did not applaud it, nor does the Bill include it. However I remain of the view that that should be done. The annual report is to be made to the Minister, not to the Parliament. There has been criticism of the fact that there is no provision in the Bill for audit control.  Mr Justice  Hope, in his fourth report, expressed the view- and applauded the suggestion of the Treasury- that provisions for audit ought to be set out in the Bill. I believe that there is in fact an auditing of most of the activities of ASIO but I believe that there ought to be a provision in the Bill, as  His  Honour recommended, to make this evident and clear. 
I pass now to a third aspect of which I am somewhat critical but also somewhat in praise. I refer to a reform, the establishment of the Security Assessment provisions and the Appeals Tribunal. I believe that this will give many people the opportunity to appeal against assessments which are unfavourable to them. In this regard the Bill generally follows the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Hope, but there are five matters which I think must be mentioned. The first is that there is no provision for retrospective operation of the provisions. People against whom assessments may have been made in the past will not have the opportunity of complaining and having their appeal considered.  Mr Justice  Hope, in his second report, came to a different conclusion about this aspect. He recommended that there should be a form of appeal.  His  recommendation was that 'the function of the Tribunal be to review adverse or qualified security assessments and any supporting information provided by ASIO at any time since it was established '. It is clear that the Bill does not adhere to that particular recommendation, which I regret. 
As  His  Honour pointed out, there are probably many people whose careers have been and still are affected by sloppy, inadequate or vindictive reports of the past. The opportunity to appeal should be in the Bill. It was also pointed out in the Hope report that International Labour Organisation Convention 1 1 1 requires the setting up of an appeal provision. If the appeal provision is not adequate we may not be complying with the provisions of that convention. My second objection to what I think is generally an excellent improvement is that unfortunately appeals are limited in three ways. It has to be determined whether people are to have access to secret information. The appeal provision also covers the areas of migration inquiry and citizenship. No doubt there are other cases where appeal might be provided.  Mr Justice  Hope pointed out in the second volume of his fourth report that there are other cases and they will not be covered by this provision. 
At page 1 93 of his report, he pointed out the considerable number of areas where communications of intelligence are made: To some State public servants; to some local government employees; to some other key point employees; to some university and other educational staff members; to some officers and members of trade unions and some other persons employed in the private sector. At page 1 94 of his report he states: 
In addition to the persons concerning whom ASIO communicates security intelligence, there are persons concerning whom it obtains security intelligence. These include persons such as members of organisations or groups regarded as subversive or potentially subversive, and persons who have contacts with the members of unfriendly intelligence services. 
He weighed up the situation and did not find it possible, at that time, to suggest that appeals should be provided for them, but did point out that after the appeal system has been operating for a period it may be possible to expand the provision to include other people. I regret that that has not been done in the Bill as we may not see amendments to this legislation for some considerable time. One would like to see it in this Bill. 
One is also concerned at the criticism which I think has been levelled fairly generally across the chamber in regard to the fact that persons may not necessarily be notified of the adverse or qualified assessment that has been made of them. There is a  Catch 22  situation here. In fact they are in a situation where it is thought by ASIO that they are too dangerous to be told of the assessment and they are not informed. Not only are they not notified; they also have no right of appeal. If accidentally they learn of the assessment it does not matter. There is no appeal provided for them. I find this inadequate and I think it ought to be amended. In addition, the Bill allows the Attorney-General to make the decision not to give a notice. It is not the Prime Minister, as  Mr Justice  Hope recommended; it is the Attorney-General who can make the decision to deny a person the right of appeal on information which may be mistaken. 
There is a fifth matter that I wish to criticise briefly. I refer to the people who are to sit on the Appeals Tribunal. There is to be a presidential member and two non-presidential members. The non-presidential member in the 'general category' is described as one 'whose standing and reputation in the community is such as to ensure public confidence in his integrity and fairness'. That could be anyone. That could be John Smith from the local garage. That provision does not cover the situation as I think it should. I believe that that person ought to be someone whose knowledge and understanding of civil liberties and whose respect in the community in these areas are such that the Tribunal would have a greater standing. I do not believe that it has been sufficiently spelt out in the Bill. 
I do accept the fact that there is no provision in this Bill for confrontation of witnesses. To a lawyer this would seem very objectionable. One's first reaction to the fact that one does not meet the person who is making the allegation against you is that this is almost unacceptable. However I am satisfied that in the security area there is a need for this provision. I just hope that the tribunal will be strong enough to ensure that there will be adequate testing of evidence before it because what is proposed is not normal under British common law. 
I have indicated that I accept the general definition of powers set out in this Bill. I know that some of my colleagues and other people in the community regard security as 'a holy cow'; all you have to do is mention the word security and you must give everything. I do not believe that is so. I have a passionate belief in civil liberty and a determination that I shall not allow those rights to disappear in cases where that can be avoided. I am not entirely satisfied with the fact that this Bill may now go on unchanged for a generation. I put to the Senate- I hope that people will listen to this plea- that there ought to be a time limit on this Bill. Shortly after this Bill becomes an Act, five years or some other reasonable time, it should be reconsidered, looked at and seen by the Parliament to be doing its duty. It should be looked at to see whether it requires amendment or not. I hope there is some move to this effect because members of this Parliament are not experts on security. They will never become experts on security because we never have enough discussion about it. I believe we should retain what we can of our power of scrutiny in this Parliament. I hope there will be consideration of my proposal. I hope also that the Attorney-General can indicate in his reply to this debate whether he would be prepared to reconsider the terms of this Act when the Freedom of Information Bill comes into law. 
In the context of the overall situation and the great powers that have been given to ASIO and will be given to it under this Bill, I hope that there will be a finite limit. Perhaps sunset legislation is what is required. I hope that there will be an opportunity at a relatively early date to reconsider this legislation. I am not necessarily saying that we should undertake an investigation such as that undertaken by  Mr Justice  Hope. That might be more than is required. But the reenactment of this legislation should come before this Parliament so that we can carry out our duties as legislators and ensure that we have not sacrificed the liberty of the people by giving too much power to public servants. 
Whilst I will not support the amendments to be moved by the Opposition- some of them are good, some of them are not very soundly based but quite a few of them have a great deal of truth in them- I will urge in the Committee stage that a limitation be placed on the life of this legislation and I will also urge my colleagues in this Parliament to look closely at some of the provisions that I have mentioned. 
I second the motion and seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I present the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on parliamentary scrutiny of rules of court. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
This report is the third to be tabled by the Committee of the four matters referred to it in April 1977. The subject is one which, not surprisingly, has elicited very little public interest. The report is entitled 'Parliamentary Scrutiny of Rules of Court'. Indeed, the very subject of the report will be a mystery to some people. It is about the way in which the business of the courts is conducted, or, to use the familiar legal expression, the 'practice and procedure' of the courts. Although practice and procedure is naturally regarded as being less important than substantive matters of law, rules of court can be very important because of the way in which they can effect the exercise of significant rights. 
Rules of court have been made traditionally by the judges of the court in the case of superior courts such as the High Court and the Supreme Courts of the States and Territories. The Committee considered suggestions, which have been made from time to time, that these rules should be made by regulation or by Act of Parliament rather than by the judges. As a general rule, the Committee does not regard it as appropriate that either of these methods should be exercised. They embody the potential for undue executive interference in the administration of the courts and for delay in amending rules of court. 
The Committee does believe, however, that trends towards opening up the rule-making procedure to include representatives of the practising legal profession should be fostered wherever practicable. It recommends that rules of court of superior Commonwealth courts should, as a general rule, be made by a rules committee comprising the judges of the particular court and representatives of the legal profession regularly practising in that court. 
The Committee supports the unanimous expression of views by all who made submissions as to the appropriateness of Parliament's power to disallow rules of court. However, the Committee believes that Parliament's role can be a more constructive one. The Committee considered, and rejected, a proposal that the Parliament or one of its committees should be empowered to amend or substitute its own rules for judge-made rules of court. The Committee believes that this would involve an undue interference in the functions of the judiciary. The Committee sees merit however, in parliamentary committees exercising effectively a power which they currently possess to make recommendations for amendment of particular judge-made rules or even for creation of new rules in respect of matters for which adequate provision has not been made. We recommend that the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances devise procedures to enable it to make recommendations to the Senate which, if agreed to by the Senate, would be conveyed to the appropriate Commonwealth court to enable it to consider the creation, amendment or substitution of the rules of that court. 
In order to assist the judiciary in the administration of court systems and to provide information and advice which would enable the judges to keep the rules of their court practical, simple and up-to-date, the Committee recommends that the Government give consideration to establishing an institute of judicial administration along the lines of those already operating in the United Kingdom and the United States. Alternatively, we recommend that funds be provided to assist the voluntary body of the same name which was established in 1 978. In addition to the assistance which such an institute could provide to the judiciary, it is envisaged that its advice and assistance would be made available also to the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances in the exercise of its power to recommend the creation, amendment or substitution of rules of court. 
-I move: 
That the Sixty-fourth Report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, relating to the principles of the Committee, be adopted. 
The purpose of the motion is to seek the Senate's concurrence with the intention of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee to modify the four principles which it adopts in its scrutiny of delegated legislation. Standing Order 36a refers to the Committee regulations and ordinances laid before the Senate, but does not provide the Committee with any criteria which it is to adopt in its scrutiny of the legislation referred to it. Since 1932 the Committee has adopted the following principles in its scrutiny of delegated legislation: 
The Committee scrutinises regulations and ordinances to ascertain: 
that they are in accordance with the statute; 
that they do not trespass unduly on personal rights and liberties; 
that they do not unduly make the rights and liberties of citizens dependent upon administrative rather than upon judicial decisions; and 
that they are concerned with administrative detail and do not amount to substantive legislation which should be a matter for parliamentary enactment. 
These principles were reported to the Senate and that report was adopted by the Senate so as to give the Committee the Senate's concurrence with the four principles. The Committee has now reported that it has modified two of these principles to take account of certain historical developments. 
Principle (c) has been revised to take account of the growth of the system of review of administrative decisions. The Committee has adopted the practice of not objecting to administrative decisions affecting the rights and liberties of citizens if there are adequate means for the review of the merits of those decisions by an independent tribunal. In 1 932 the system of review of administrative decisions by independent administrative tribunals, as distinct from the courts, had not been developed to any great extent, and it was therefore appropriate for the Committee to insist upon 'judicial decisions' on matters affecting important rights of the citizen. The development of a system of administrative review, and particularly the establishment in 1 975 of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, means that it is now appropriate for the Committee to revise this principle to reflect its current practice. 
Principle (d) has also been revised to remove the references to delegated legislation being restricted to 'administrative detail' and not being permitted to contain 'substantative legislation'. The Committee considers that this principle was difficult to enforce strictly even in 1932 and is impossible to enforce strictly at present when there are so many Acts of the Parliament which leave substantive matters to be dealt with by delegated legislation. The revised principle will simply require the Committee to exercise a judgment whether particular pieces of delegated legislation are more appropriate for parliamentary enactment, and it will be for the Parliament to accept or reject any such judgment. The report of the Committee expresses the Committee's intention to adopt some criteria in applying this principle. 
The four principles, as revised, are as follows: 
The Committee scrutinises delegated legislation to ensure: 
that it is in accordance with the statute; 
that it does not trespass unduly on personal rights and liberties; 
that it does not unduly make the rights and liberties of citizens dependent upon administrative decisions which are not subject to review of their merits by a judicial or other independent tribunal; and 
that it does not contain matter more appropriate for parliamentary enactment. 
There are two other matters in the report which I ought to draw to the attention of the Senate. First, the Committee now intends to apply the revised principle (d) to ordinances of the Australian Capital Territory. In 1976 the Committee reported that it had decided not to apply that principle, as it then stood, to ordinances of the Australian Capital Territory, and the Senate concurred with that decision. The decision was based upon the belief that the Australian Capital Territory was heading towards self-government, and upon the obvious inappropriateness of applying the principle as it then stood to Australian Capital Territory ordinances. Now that the electors of the Australian Capital Territory have rejected self-government, and the laws of the Territory are to continue to be made by the Executive government, the Committee considers that it is wholly appropriate that principle (d), as revised, should be applied to Australian Capital Territory ordinances. 
I draw attention to a matter that is referred to on page 4 of the Committee 's report. In regard to ordinances of the Austraiian Capital Territory, the Committee will have regard to some criteria, perhaps taking as a possible guide the kind of criteria suggested by the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs in its report upon the Evidence (Australian Capital Territory) Bill 1 972, for determining whether the laws of the Territory ought to be made by ordinance or by Act of the Parliament. These criteria will need to evolve in the course of the Committee 's consideration of ordinances of the Territory in the future. The Committee intends as a matter of course, when it proposes to apply principle (d) to Australian Capital Territory ordinances, to notify and seek a reaction from both the Legislative Assembly and the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. The Committee does not envisage that many ordinances of the Territory will be reported to the Senate on the basis of principle (d), and it must be emphasised that it is for the Parliament to determine whether a particular law of the Territory should take the form of a statute rather than an ordinance. 
Secondly, in the statement of the Committee's principles, as revised, the expression 'delegated legislation ' has been used instead of 'regulations and ordinances'. The reason for this is that the Committee has made a practice over a number of years of scrutinising all instruments which are subject to disallowance and which are legislative in character. This includes not only regulations and ordinances properly so called, but also rules of court, by-laws and the like. Neither the Senate nor the Government has objected to this practice. In a previous report the Committee recommended that Standing Order 36a be amended to take account of this practice, and I understand that the Standing Orders Committee has agreed to this proposal. The adoption of this report of the Committee will, therefore, give the Senate's support to the present practices of the Committee, and I commend the motion to the Senate. 
-I give notice that, 10 sitting days after today, I shall move: 
That Regulation 4 of the amendments of the Student Assistance Regulations, contained in Statutory Rules 1978 No. 260, and made under the Student Assistance Act 1973, be disallowed. 
-I give notice that, 10 sitting days after today, I shall move: 
That the Poisons and Narcotic Drugs Ordinance 1978, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 38 of 1 978, and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910, be disallowed. 
-May I briefly, in the time remaining, say that as far as I am concerned the second and third proposed amendments do not seem to be justified, and that in the case of the third I prefer that offered by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  However, I urge the Attorney-General to give consideration to the first amendment. I have been persuaded, certainly by what  Senator Button  said, that there is some justification for it. It seems to me that the word 'ultimately' is not necessary. I know that it is used in  Mr Justice  Hope's report. I do not know why. Certainly he has not explained his reason for so doing. It seems to me that it is difficult to tell just to what extent 'ultimately', in the sentence with which it is linked, refers to other parts or phrases. 
Also, the problem which arises is that the activities referred to may lead not ultimately but immediately or quite soon to violence. It seems, as used in this clause, to be unnecessarily restrictive. Subversion is a very difficult concept and, frankly, I think that it needs to be defined pretty careully. It has often been misused. It seems to me that the use of the word 'ultimately' here is unnecessary, that it could be done without, and that the provision would be much clearer if, in fact, it were not employed. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. It relates to the export expansion grants scheme introduced by this Parliament as part of an overall plan aimed at assisting exporters in their endeavours. Does the Minister agree that for this scheme to be successful it is essential for grant applications to be processed with relative speed? Is the Minister aware that applications for the 1977-78 year are still not being considered? Is the Minister also aware of the concern which exists within the business community regarding delays experienced as a result of the inadequate number of staff provided to the Export Development Grants Board to deal with the applications? In the interests of maintaining business confidence, will the Minister assure the Senate that, in the future, sufficient staff will be provided to ensure that all applications are dealt with promptly? Does the Minister agree that far more credibility will be given to the 'Export Now' campaign if that can be achieved? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. I draw the Minister's attention to an article appearing in the Melbourne  Age  on 27 March 1979 which criticises strongly the living and working conditions applicable to young grape pickers working in the Mildura area. Is the Minster aware of this report which claims that on some Mildura district blocks young pickers are being accommodated in crowded and sub-standard bungalows? Will the Minister comment on this disturbing report and explain why the Mildura branch of the Commonwealth Employment Service continues to mislead pickers as to earning possibilities and sends them to these grape blocks without first alerting them to the situation? In the interests of ensuring justice and encouraging young unemployed people to seek job vacancies, will the Minister assure the Senate that a thorough investigation will be conducted into the activities of both the grape growers and the Mildura Commonwealth Employment Service? 
I desire to second the motion which the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  has moved and to support him in what he has said in respect of the action of the Pakistan Government today. I think members of this Senate would deplore that action and it is a matter on which they have expressed their views for some time. They have urged that clemency be exercised. This fatal action ought not to have been taken by the Pakistan Government. I speak not only as a senator in this parliament but also as the  Chairman  of the Australian Parliamentary Group of Amnesty International, which organisation has expressed its view in no uncertain terms. It has urged that clemency be exercised in respect of this political leader- a man who was elected twice to the highest position in Pakistan and a man who was deposed.  His  execution will be seen in the world only as a piece of political expediency- the removal of an opponent. 
I do not repeat what has been said by the Leader of the Opposition in respect of the dubious nature of these actions, of the trial and of the fact that there was, on appeal, a very, very small majority prepared to take this course. Even then that majority appeared to exercise a request for clemency directed to the present Leader of the Government in that country. It seems to me that all the appeals which have been made throughout the world for the exercise of clemency have been ignored and Pakistan, I think, will suffer as a result. It is not only a matter on which concern is expressed because here is another political leader who is treated in this way. I think we are concerned because this is not the only instance. We know that in Iran there have been executions and behaviour which likewise does not appear to be the standard of a civilised country. We know that this is not the only case of the execution of a political leader, but it is to be deplored because this action removes a man who has been a leader of a country, a man of great importance in that part of the world. In addition to that factor, Amnesty International abhors the death sentence when it is exercised in any event, and in its statute, under the heading Objects', it says: 
Considering that every person has the right freely to hold and to express his convictions and the obligation to extend a like freedom to others, the objects of Amnesty International shall be to secure throughout the world the observance of the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, by: 
opposing by all appropriate means the imposition and infliction of death penalties and torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment of prisoners or other detained or restricted persons whether or not they have used or advocated violence. 
We know that in the treatment of this man as a prisoner a great deal occurred that is also a matter of criticism. Worst of all is that his life has now been destroyed; that the persons who exercise the present power in Pakistan decided to remove him. The Amnesty International group has felt concern for some time about this matter. At  its annual meeting on 12 April of last year the group expressed strong concern about the recent trial and threatened execution of  Mr Zulfikar  Ali Bhutto, the elected Prime Minister for Pakistan, who was subsequently deposed by a military coup in that country. The group agreed that the trial of  Mr Bhutto  appeared to reflect a harsh political judgment rather than a criminal adjudication.  Mr Bhutto  was a member of parliament and the elected political leader of his country. The trial had not appeared to be a fair one and because of this the possibility of his execution was of concern to Amnesty International members in the Australian Parliament. It remains like that to this day. 
We then communicated with the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  and, as we all know, he made appeals for clemency. In his letter of reply to me he said: 
The representations, made by the Australian Ambassador in Islamabad, stated that, in seeking clemency, the Government had taken into account our close and friendly relations with Pakistan, which enabled us, in my view, to express concern at the death sentence without, we would hope, it being taken as interference in Pakistan's internal affairs. Our Ambassador also said that the Australian Government appreciated that the judicial process had not yet been completed, but nevertheless felt compelled to join with other responsible members of the international community who have sought clemency. 
The representations also referred to the international acceptance of  Mr Bhutto  as an active and constructive leader of the Third World and to our strong dislike of the death sentence being carried out on political leaders. 
That view, which has been expressed by our Government, by the Amnesty International group, by members of parliament and by leaders throughout the world, is such that I think it ought to have been observed. The secretary of the Amnesty International group,  Senator Ruth  Coleman, and I called upon the Pakistan Ambassador following that correspondence and requested him to urge his Government to take note of these pleas. It is clear that that has not been done. It is clear that it will be seen in the eyes of the world as a vindictive action. It is behaviour which must damage Pakistan in the eyes of the world. It must show Pakistan as not being the civilised country we had hoped it would be. I regret this matter very deeply. It is something of which I think the whole civilised world will feel ashamed. I hope that our support of this motion will make clear to the Pakistan Government our feelings on the subject. 
If I may say so, in support of the clause, it seems to me quite unnecessary to try to restrict it merely to unlawful activities' or activities which are proved to be unlawful. There may be activities which are highly obstructive to the Defence Force. Bear in mind that this clause relates to purposes of security or the defence of the Commonwealth. It even restricts the activities of the Defence Force. But insofar as interfering with the purposes of security or the defence of the Commonwealth is concerned, any activities, be they legal or illegal- and many of them may be highly objectionable and may be intended to develop, perhaps later, into illegal activities- may well be activities which ought to be under surveillance and ought to be considered as subversive by this organisation. To require that it should be only those activities which can be shown to be illegal activities would, I think, be an unnecessary restriction on the activities of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. I do not see any need whatsoever for the Opposition's amendment. 
I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Health to the reported recommendation of Federal energy officials that the lead content of petrol be increased as part of an overall plan to reduce Australia's total oil consumption. Is the Minister aware of claims made by English specialist Professor Derek Bryce-Smith at the Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science Conference in Auckland earlier this year that petrol lead released in exhaust fumes may be seriously damaging brain development in young children? In view of the professor's claims, would the Minister agree that any attempts to use lead to raise the octane rating of petrol should be discouraged until such time as more conclusive evidence is available on the effects it has on the mental functioning of adults as well as children? What investigation is the Government conducting at present into the potential dangers of lead poisoning, and will the Minister assure the Senate that requests to boost the lead level of petrol will be denied until such time as the results of thorough investigations are known? 
-by leave-I withdraw General Business, Order of the Day No. 71, relating to the 62nd report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement, and note with concern the failure of some Ministers and departments promptly to carry out undertakings given to the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances to amend unsatisfactory legislation, as recorded in the 62nd report of the Committee. 
The motion which I have moved, by arrangement with the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  is the same in substance as the Order of the Day which I have withdrawn. The Regulations and Ordinances Committee has had the opportunity of considering the substance of the Attorney-General's statement and considers that it is justified in asking the Senate to pass the motion which I have just moved in the light of the Attorney-General 's statement. The AttorneyGeneral 's statement deals with each of the matters listed in the Committee's report, and I propose to do likewise. This statement has been made nearly six months after the report of the Committee was put down complaining about these matters but we are glad to see this statement now before the Senate. 
The first matter is in relation to provisions reversing the onus of proof in the Motor Traffic Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory. As I advised the Senate in my previous remarks upon the report, the Committee wrote to the then Attorney-General in February 1976 to ask him whether he would carry out the undertaking given by the Attorney-General in the previous Government. In spite of repeated reminders the Committee did not receive a substantive reply until October 1977. That reply merely indicated that the Attorney-General was further considering the matter, and it was not until 10 October 1978 that the Attorney-General finally gave the Committee the benefit of his consideration. It is up to that time that the inordinate delay in dealing with this matter occurred. I would like to stress that the Committee has no complaint about the time which has elapsed since 10 October 1978 during which the Committee has been considering the submissions made to it by the Attorney-General. It was in the period before October 1978 that the inordinate delay occurred. 
With regard to the regulations under the Postal Services Act in relation to the opening of mail, the Attorney-General has rightly pointed out that the responsible Minister agreed recently to go ahead with the amendments which were promised to the Committee in 1975 and confirmed by the new government early in 1976. These dates reveal that there has been a delay of three years in carrying out this undertaking, and in the meantime the mail of citizens of the country has been opened in accordance with regulations which the Committee and the Minister agreed in 1976 conferred excessive powers upon officers. 
I do not propose to say anything about the regulations under the Customs Act. The Committee made clear in its report that it accepted that the responsible Minister had taken appropriate action to carry out his undertaking to bring the matter before the Administrative Review Council, and the delay has been in the Council's consideration of the matter. With regard to the Australian Capital Territory Consumer Affairs Ordinance, the Committee received an undertaking on 17 August 1977 to amend provisions which seriously trespass on individual rights and liberties and the fact that those amendments have not yet been made reveals an inordinate delay. I may say in passing that the AttorneyGeneral 's summary of this matter refers to only one of several points raised by the Committee. The same comment of inordinate delay applies to the Australian Capital Territory Sale of Motor Vehicles Ordinance. The undertaking in relation to this Ordinance was received on 20 October 1977. The Committee did note, however, in its report, that it had also received undertakings that the objectionable provisions in the ordinance were not being used. 
The Attorney-General has correctly pointed out that the promised amendments of the Federal Court of Australia Regulations have recently been made, but the fact that the undertaking was received on 10 May 1978 reveals an inordinate delay of some 1 1 months, considering that the amendment in question was a relatively simple one. Following the debate on the Committee's motion on 22 February of this year I wrote to the Government requesting that the statement which was to be made on this matter refer also to a number of undertakings which have been given to the Committee since the presentation of the report and which have not been carried out. The Attorney-General, in his statement, has not responded to that request. I should point out to the Senate that one of the undertakings, relating to the Historic Shipwrecks Regulations, concerned provisions which the Committee considers carry with them a substantial risk of injustice being done to individuals. The undertaking in relation to this matter was given on 15 November 1978. There are other undertakings going back to early November 1978. 
The Committee believes that the report which it tabled in September last year and the matters to which I drew attention on 22 February this year and again today reveal that there have been unjustified delays in carrying out undertakings given to the Committee by Ministers. As I stressed in my comments on 22 February, the great majority of undertakings have been carried out, and no Minister has ever repudiated an undertaking given by himself or his predecessor. The Committee's complaint is concerned only with the question of inordinate delays. Ministers and departments simply have not taken sufficiently seriously their dealings with the Committee. As I also said on 22 February, if such delays continue the Committee will be forced to decline to accept ministerial undertakings which cannot be carried out before the time for disallowance has passed. This will cause great inconvenience to Ministers and departments. I invite the Senate to pass the motion to express its concern at the delays, which have occurred. 
-May I have the opportunity to ask the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  a question in connection with clause 9? Clause 9 provides that the period of office of a Director-General shall not exceed seven years as is specified in his instrument of appointment. As I understand it the present period is five years. In my speech on the second reading debate I referred to the fact that the recommendation in the fourth report of  Mr Justice  Hope was that there should be a stated period. I think he had five years in mind. I wonder whether the Attorney-General can indicate why this particular recommendation was not followed? It seems to me that there is considerable advantage in a Director-General having security of tenure. One can imagine a situation where the period may be fixed. It may be a short period. It may be that there is not the security in which a Director-General can make decisions and exercise the powers which he has under clause 8 and other clauses of which I strongly approve. It seems to me that it is not sound that this period should be left open-ended and that the period of reappointment might be fixed perhaps for only one year. 
With these matters in mind, and bearing in mind that in any event there is an age limit of 65, I do not think that there would be any problem of tenure at that end. A Director-General should surely have security. Of course he has that security from the instrument of appointment. Bearing in mind that in future short appointments might be made, and as 1 think that that is somewhat undesirable, I ask the Attorney-General why this particular recommendation by  Mr Justice  Hope has been departed from? 
-I know that it is proposed to move an amendment to this clause but perhaps I can ask the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  a question on this clause before the amendment is moved. This clause is the first of a number of clauses in this Bill about which I raised a question in my speech in the second reading debate. I queried the extent to which they are secrecy provisions which, I take it, should the Freedom of Information Bill be passed by the Senate in its present form, or anything like it, would be proscribed. I endeavoured to obtain from the Attorney-General some indication as to whether, if and when freedom of information legislation is enacted, he proposes to reconsider these secrecy clauses in the light of any changed circumstances that might arise from that legislation. 
Clause 1 8 is a fairly intimidatory provision. It goes beyond the provisions of section 70 of the Crimes Act. Clause 18 (2) imposes a very wide prohibition on people disclosing information, not only if they are officers or employees, but also if they have some contract, agreement or arrangement with the Organisation. This clause prevents them from making any disclosure of information. Whereas under the Crimes Act they are forbidden from making disclosure, but only where it is their duty not to disclose' any information, there is no such restriction in this legislation. It goes further. It imposes a complete prohibition on people disclosing information. People may well consider that they have a duty to disclose such information but according to this clause such people would have no defence. So the first thing I would ask is whether the Parliament could have some assurance that there will be a reconsideration of this clause and other clauses. So that I do not have to repeat this matter later, on the clauses in question, I will mention them now. I refer to clause 57 which deals with disclosure to and by the Tribunal; clause 79, which deals with the secrecy provisions imposed on members or officers of the Tribunal; and clause 90 which deals with the publication of the identity of an officer of the Organisation. I ask whether these clauses will be seriously reconsidered by the Government in the light of the freedom of information legislation, if it becomes law. I trust we will not then be met by a fait accompli whereby, having passed this Bill this time, such clauses will not be looked at again in any real sense. 
The second matter I wish to raise with the Minister concerns sub-clause (3) of clause 18. Whereas in clause 1 7 there is a very wide use of the communication of intelligence, a much wider use is provided for in clause 18 (3). It provides for disclosures to police, to Customs officials or to the Office of National Assessments. I suppose that a substantial amount of information relating to security matters could flow from those sources and in some cases could even flow overseas. I wonder why it is thought necessary to go so far, to disclose information in this way, and take it outside the area of security to make use of information that may be obtained. I realise that the clauses that entitle an officer of the Organisation to disclose information are fairly substantial because such offences are punishable by imprisonment for life or for a maximum period, of not less than three years. I realise that significant crimes- also Customs matters- must be involved. I wonder why there is this wide extension? How does the Attorney-General see this provision and the other provisions in relation to a future Freedom of Information Act? 
I am encouraged by what the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  has said. The amendment which the Opposition moved seemed to be plausible, but it is certainly a great way of provoking further dissension between States, some of which have been vetted and found all right and others found wanting. The proposal which the Attorney-General has said he would make is one that would require amendment to the Bill. When I look at the definitions of 'prescribed administrative action' with regard to security assessment, they relate to three things. In clause 34 it relates to action where it is affecting access to a place being broadly matters under the Migration Act 1958 and Australian Citizenship Act 1948. Where it is a matter of supplying information to another State, even though it is done indirectly through a Commonwealth Department, I would not have thought that it would come within the powers of the Director-General unless that clause were changed. Certainly I would like to see the clause changed so that that could be done. I think that that is a practical way to do it. Even though the Director-General is given this power, it should not be left there. It should be seen as something that will be done as a matter of course where information is supplied to State security services. 
We have had the experience in South Australia and New South Wales, where some alarming situations have occurred in relation to the collection and use of security files, and no doubt that has happened in other States. I hope that this matter can be put into the legislation so that it becomes a regular practice. There is a power of appeal, and the appeal provision is a very important one. I have made criticism of it because I do not think that it goes as far as it should. However, if this is the way in which information is to be supplied to the State authorities, then it ought to be made perfectly clear in the legislation that this is within the powers of the Director-General and that there will be the opportunity for people to appeal in these circumstances. 
It appears as though the shouting and the tumult have died down and the captains and the kings have departed. It is time for me as an anti-climax to remind honourable senators that tonight we are debating a motion, which I moved some time ago, to take note of this report. 
It is a fashionable and popular motion. It was a motion sought by all members of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, including  Senator Evans,  so that we would have an opportunity to bring forward ideas about what is in this report and to encourage honourable senators to read the report. The Government has agreed to respond to all reports within six months.  Senator Cavanagh  decided that it was smarter for him to move that we take up one particular aspect of the report, one ofthe options or possibilities- the acquisition of land- and in his own terms 'demand that the Commonwealth Government - 
I will come to  Senator Cavanagh;  he should be patient. The honourable senator suggested that the Senate pass his motion requiring that option to be taken irrespective of the Government response to the report. 
I turn to a description of what the report does. I take the words of an estimable senator best able to express in excellent language the purposes of this Committee. He said, referring to the report: 
First of all, it gives a detailed analysis, Tor really the first time in the legal literature, of the nature, scope and extent of section 5 1 (xxvi) of the Constitution, which of course empowers the Commonwealth to make laws with respect to the people of any race for whom it is deemed necessary to make special laws . . . 
The second thing that the report does is to give a full account of the relevance and application of section S 1 (xxxi) of the Constitution, which sets out the power of the Commonwealth to acquire property on just terms. The third thing that the report does is to make a detailed analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of the present Commonwealth legislation in this area- the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities SelfManagement) Act 1978 . . . Fourthly what we do in the report is to list a series of alternative courses of legislative action in which the Commonwealth could constitutionally engage so as to secure effective self-management rights for Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders in Queensland. 
Honourable senators will note the series of alternative courses. That succinct prose reflects the words of  Senator Evans  in describing this report. The report does not say that we must do one thing. We must give credit where credit is due and, in a few words, that is what the report does.  Senator Cavanagh  tried to inflict upon the Senate one course of action and to pre-empt the Government's decisions on the report. 
The report was designed to be eductional for the Senate and for the people. I say that in no superior way. We had considerable help from other people. The report did not contain all our own ideas. It did not contain only the ideas of Senators Evans and Tate or other legal or nonlegal members of the Committee. The Committee members had additional help from departments and we formed conclusions. We tried to set aside the fault that has developed in this country for years, namely, that we have doubted the powers ofthe Commonwealth. Those powers are not only considerable but also diverse. They need not be used in extreme degree but can be used without acquisition, with partial acquisition, in acquiring leasehold and other things of this sort. The Commonwealth has substantial power and, if necessary, it should use that power. 
We are concerned with this in respect to Aurukun and Mornington Island.  Senator Puplick  's amendment is a proper amendment. Once  Senator Cavanagh  had tried to inflict upon this chamber a particular prescription as to what should be done, it was necessary for something to be done such as  Senator Puplick  has done tonight. He moved an amendment which describes what has been going on and the continuing actions of the Government which had been affecting the situation before the report was delivered and also have affected it since. It refers to the elections that took place and the negotiations that are proceeding. 
Are you talking about  Senator Chaney? 
Under a long-standing arrangement, he has gone to Aurukun and Mornington Island. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  has been visiting the territories. This behaviour is different from that of a Minister such as our tired colleague,  Senator Cavanagh.  I give him credit. Tonight he acknowledged that he was a disaster as a Minister. That is a refreshing and desirable admission. He asked: What is effective self-management? After years in this chamber and periods as a Minister he asked: what is effective self-management? In his blundering way in his amendment he ignored self-management. It is a very difficult concept. The Commonwealth Government last year made an agreement with the State. Selfmanagement needs to be achieved. What is being tried is a delicate form of local government by agreement with- the State Government. An election has just been successfully held. How unhappy was  Senator Cavanagh  tonight at the fact that there seems to have been an effective election in both those communities giving the people the councillors that they wanted and, in some places, the councillors which they had previously. 
It is confirmation that something is working. It is confirmation that at least there has been some success. Nobody has gone overboard tonight- I say this for the benefit of  Senator Evans-  and said that there has been a triumphal co-operation. Nobody used that sort of expression. We know that negotiations are continuing. We know that the people at Yarrabah have said that they want to come under the Commonwealth Act. These are clearly delicate and difficult periods. 
Those honourable senators opposite who have spoken tonight have said: 'What do the people want?' That was  Senator Evans's  great contribution. What are the people of Aurukun saying? I went to Aurukun and Mornington Island with  Senator Bonner  and  Mr Peter  Falconer, the honourable member for Casey, in August last year. The people in both those communities were tired of being pushed around, backwards and forwards. To them there seemed to be no solution to their problem and no indication that they would get anywhere. They did not want to see more politicians. They did not want to have years of trouble and fighting. They hoped that something might work. They feared that the local government suggestions would not work. I will not prejudge them now and say that they will not work. We have at last reached the stage when councils have been elected and a form of self-government is working in those two communities. We must hope that they succeed. Unless honourable senators opposite want to see disaster, unless they really feel that there must be a confrontation which brings the most extreme measures, they should think of the people in those communities. 
I remember them as I saw them. I realise that they want us. They trust us to do things. They trust us to continue to be interested in their concerns. That is what we must continue to do. Just because the councils have now been elected that is not the end of the Commonwealth's task.  Senator Chaney  has a difficult and delicate area in which to work. We in this chamber must give him as much support as we can in the negotiations and the efforts he is presently making. It is not a case of trying to pluck out one of the solutions which our Committee said was available and suggesting that it is the only one which must be used. I trust that the report of the Committee will be useful to the people of Australia and to the Aboriginal race in Australia. It will clarify the Commonwealth powers. I am delighted with the amendment moved by  Senator Puplick.  I am sure that it will be added to the motion I moved. In part the amendment states: 
in the event of such agreement, legislative action and negotiations failing to provide satisfactory means for selfmanagement, the Senate requests the Commonwealth Government to give urgent consideration to (and advise the Parliament of its intentions in regard to) the amendment of the existing Commonwealth legislation or the introduction of new legislation to ensure effective self-management for the 
Aurukun and Mornington Island Aboriginal communities, and other Aboriginal communities, pursuant to the substantial powers of the Commonwealth as examined in the Senate Committee's Report. 
This is no weak and spineless motion. It is a motion to which I am very happy to add my support. I believe that it shows in reality and in the proper balance what the Senate Committee report does. It shows that the Senate recognises that the Commonwealth has powers which ought to be kept in reserve and used when necessary. We should not come into this chamber and provocatively try to do things which will be harmful to the Aboriginal people in these communities. In summing up this debate I ask honourable senators to vote for the motion as well as the amendment moved by  Senator Puplick.  I think that these will satisfactorily show the Senate in a light in which it is considerate to these communities, is concerned, as it has been at all times, for the Aboriginal people and their aspirations and is determined to see that they are achieved. 
I refer the Minister representing the Prime Minister to recent claims by members of the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association that the oil industry expects to be drilling on the Great Barrier Reef within two to five years. I ask the Minister whether his attention has been drawn to the statement by  Mr Greg  Swindon, the Association's Queensland  chairman,  that people can be convinced within the next five years that the objective of looking for oil on the Great Barrier Reef is not precluded by the preservation of the reef? If so, will he comment on the serious implications of this claim? In the interests of both Australian and world heritage, will the Minister assure the Senate that the Government will not yield to pressure from the oil companies to permit drilling on or in the vicinity of the reef, and will he inform the Senate when the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act, designed to ensure the protection of the whole of the reef, will be put into active operation? 
-I wish to comment on that aspect.  Mr Justice  Hope at page 1 93 of the second volume of his fourth report dealt with this situation and stated that his recommendation did not include a number of people in respect of whom security intelligence is communicated for various purposes. He referred, among other things, to some State public servants, some local government employees, some other key point employees, some university and other educational staff members, some officers, members of trade unions and some other persons employed in the private sector. That covers the areas about which the honourable senator spoke. After examining this aspect  Mr Justice  Hope stated in paragraph 25: 
I have given a great deal of thought to the question whether I should recommend that a right of appeal should be given to the Australian citizens or residents concerning whom security intelligence is thus collected or communicated. I have found the matter beset with problems. It is difficult to see how intelligence collecting, used or communicated primarily for operational purposes could, without more, be the subject of an appeal. Again, intelligence could be communicated, eg, to a special branch, for operational purposes, but later, and quite properly, communicated by the special branch for a purpose related to employment without ASlO's knowledge. 
He specifically considered the aspect raised by the honourable senator but did not find it possible to make a recommendation. There may be some injustice in the situation where something that falls just short of being a security assessment under this definition is not covered by an appeal. I can see the force of the suggestion made by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  that any sort of communication might otherwise be included. It is difficult to see where the line will be drawn. Maybe, if this legislation is reconsidered, the line ought to be drawn at another point. This matter was considered by  Mr Justice  Hope, but he could not see that the legislation should cover the cases mentioned. 
I wish to speak to this clause. I have already spoken to it on a previous occasion in the debate on the second reading. As I am following  Senator Evans  I shall mention another matter. I noted his remarks last night when speaking of what he called the failure of Government Ministers to participate in this debate. He interjected to say: 'Even Missen and Puplick have run'. I take this opportunity of expressing my contempt for the remarks that  Senator Evans  made on that occasion. He knows quite well why 1 was not in the chamber yesterday. 
I am pleased to hear that, unreported though it is, the honourable senator was corrected. Perhaps he will be a little less loose with his tongue in future. 
We must always hope for the best. I wish to speak specifically to this clause because I accept that there is substance in the objection which has been made to the fact that there is no right of appeal whatsoever to those who it is decided are too dangerous to be given notice of the fact that an assessment has been made against them. At the same time, I do not think the Opposition proposal which wipes out this clause is a satisfactory answer. I do not think we can brush off the fact that situations will arise in which people who are thought to be spies, on what appear to the Director-General to be adequate grounds are seeking access to a position or seeking promotion. These facts of course, I can understand, could not be communicated without considerable danger to security. It is not an answer to say, as  Senator Evans  said, that perhaps in that situation an assessment is not furnished. In other words, the honourable senator says that the person should be allowed to be appointed to a position and the department employing him should have no knowledge of the situation. I do not know whether he was serious in that suggestion, but clearly the answer cannot be to do nothing. 
At the same time, as I said in my speech on the second reading debate, I think there is clearly a real  Catch 22  situation- a situation in which the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation has evidence that indicates that someone is particularly dangerous. That evidence may be quite wrong. It may be based on the wrong person. It may of course be quite exaggerated or be malicious. These situations are known to have existed in the past. It is then in the hands of the Attorney-General to make a decision, as he must, on the evidence which is before him to deny that person the right of appeal. To my mind that is not a satisfactory situation at all. One will realise that  Mr Justice  Hope in his suggestions went further than the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  is going in this legislation because  Mr Justice  Hope said that decisions on this matter should be made by the Prime Minister himself, not by the Attorney-General. In other words he said it was of such significance that it ought to be transferred to the Prime Minister for decision. I do not find that an altogether satisfactory answer either but it is certainly not a solution which has been chosen in the legislation. 
I put to the Attorney-General another solution to this problem which could well be adopted. When the Attorney-General believes there is a dangerous situation and a person should not be notified the facts should then be reported to the presidential member of the Security Appeals Tribunal. The evidence should be put before him so he can satisfy himself whether the person should be notified. In other words, why should he not examine the evidence which is put forward and then make his decision? As he and other members of the Tribunal are being entrusted to hear the appeals generally and are being entrusted to acquire further particulars in appeals, why should he not also in a situation in which an appeal is to be denied have the opportunity of saying: 'Let me look at the evidence, let me decide whether you are acting on reasonable ground or not'? Clearly someone such as KGB agent who is clearly identified but not yet dealt with and who is applying for access to positions will not be notified. 
The taking away of a person's right of appeal, I believe, is very serious. This legislation is setting up a tribunal but it will still leave an opportunity for colossal mistakes to be made and for someone to never know what has been done or said against him. I believe that there ought to be a remedy in the hands of the presidential member of the Tribunal. He should look at the evidence and if he says so notice should not be given. But I do not think it should be left to one man to make this decision upon one set of untested evidence. I suggest to the Attorney that this is a solution which would be fair to the person who is assessed and fair to the Government. 
I am not going to move amendments. I am putting suggestions to the Government. 
I present a report from the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on reforming the law. 
Ordered that the report be printed 
-As Chairman of the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs- the Committee to which it is suggested that such a reference should be sent- I think that I should say, in the shortest possible way, that no suggestion has been put to the Committee that it should accept such a reference. The Committee as a committee is not aware of such a suggestion. It certainly has not requested such a reference. At the present time it is fully engaged on current references. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I draw his attention to the disturbing reports received from political prisoners recently released from camps in northern Laos. These reports relate to the alleged deterioration in Laos's economy and to the effect that this is having on the treatment of prisoners detained in these camps. Will the Minister advise of any knowledge concerning claims that many of the 12,000 prisoners detained in these camps are suffering severely due to lack of adequate medical attention and proper rations? Will the Minister investigate these claims, and in doing so assure the Senate that whatever support possible will be rendered to the prisoners? In the hope of encouraging some economic independence from the Soviet Union and Vietnam, will the Minister also urge the Government to provide whatever aid is possible to Laos for the development of its untapped resources and to request other Western nations, particularly the United States, to do likewise? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
By resolution of the Senate on 2 1 April 1 977, the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee was, at its own request, given the task of inquiring into the matter of processing law reform. In doing this, the Committee was to have particular reference to: 
methods of ensuring that proposals for law reform by the Australian Law Reform Commission are implemented or are otherwise processed; 
the adequacy of existing machinery for the collection and assessment of proposals for law reform put forward by judges, commissions, committees and organisations or individuals; and 
the effectiveness of existing machinery for co-ordination of the work of the various law reform agencies in Australia. 
Let me state at the outset that the Committee has been very much aware of the importance of this inquiry and of the need to provide a considered and constructive set of proposals in its report. There has been some delay in the tabling of the report. This has been the result of several factors, including changes in the Committee's membership following the 1977 election, the pressure of other important references and a decision in October last year to seek further submissions on this reference in order to provide an opportunity for wider participation in our deliberations. Although the delay is regrettable, I believe the outcome is a report containing worthwhile proposals which, if adopted, will ensure a more coherent and systematic method of achieving necessary reforms in the law. 
The first area of the Committee's inquiry was concerned with ensuring the implementation of proposals for law reform put forward by the Australian Law Reform Commission. The Committee is firmly of the opinion that recommendations for law reform should be prepared with a view to their ultimate legislative enactment. Accordingly, we feel that it is a legitimate part of the Law Reform Commission's function to inform itself in the manner and to the extent it thinks necessary or appropriate by consulting with government and opposition politicians and interested community groups as a means of assessing the likely acceptability of its proposals to government and Parliament. Government and opposition parties should fully co-operate with the Commission in any steps it may take to inform itself in this way. 
Equally important is the need to ensure the bureaucratic acceptability of law reform proposals and to avoid wasteful duplication of effort by departments and the Commission. To this end we recommend full consultation between the Law Reform Commission and all departments with an interest in the subject area of the Commission reference before the completion of the Commission report, so as to minimise the likelihood of duplication of effort and adverse comment by departments reviewing the finished product. Furthermore, it is the Committee's view that, except in circumstances of special urgency, law reform initiatives by departments which may duplicate matters referred to the Commission should be delayed until the considered recommendations of the Commission become available. 
Another factor considered by the Committee with respect to implementation of law reform proposals was the continuation of the practice of appending draft legislation to reports of the Australian Law Reform Commission. It is our firm view that this practice is of great value as a means not only of concentrating the minds of the Law Reform Commissioners upon the need to solve specific problems and in evaluating whether the Commission's proposals do in fact solve those problems, but also in enabling the Commissioners to meet objections which might arise because of the practical ramifications of the implementation of a specific proposal. In the light of this we have made certain recommendations which, in our view, are necessary to ensure continued provision of scarce drafting resources to the Commission. 
Having made recommendations as to how we feel law reform proposals should be made capable of implementation, we then recommended what is, in our view, the most appropriate method of assisting in the process of implementation of these proposals into law. This would involve the immediate referral of all Australian Law Reform Commission reports, after tabling in the Parliament, to an appropriate parliamentary committee. That committee would consider and report promptly to the Parliament whether the legislation proposed by the Commission should be enacted unaltered, or subject to specified amendments. During its deliberations, the committee should liaise closely with the Commission to ensure full understanding of its proposals, an appreciation of why alternative proposals may have been rejected and that any proposed amendments can be accommodated within the framwork of the Commission's Bill. Under this procedure, the responsible Minister should be obliged, as with other parliamentary committee reports, to respond within six months of the Committee's reporting, informing the Parliament of the Government's intention regarding the Commission proposals. The committee to whom a Commission report is referred should have the responsibility of maintaining a general watching brief over the progress of that report, taking such action as it considers desirable to prompt the introduction and passage of legislation to give it effect. 
The Committee's second area of investigation was the collection and assessment of law reform proposals. Our findings and recommendations on this aspect of the inquiry can be briefly stated. We recommend that the Government make sufficient funds available to the Australian Law Reform Commission to enable it to provide a clearing-house for the collection and dissemination throughout Australia of the many suggestions, both formal and informal, for law reform. In exercising this function, we recommend that the Commission compile a register of law reform suggestions based upon material appearing in the law reports, periodical literature, parliamentary reports and papers and communicated by interested organisations and individuals. Part of this dissemination process by the Commission should include, we recommend, an annual report to the Parliament of significant suggestions for reform which have come to the Commission's notice. 
Thirdly, the Committee concerned itself with the co-ordination of the work of law reform. This matter of co-ordination has two aspects: firstly, co-ordination in exchanging information and research; and secondly, the more difficult area of co-ordination of legislation- particularly legislation related to uniform law reform. The first aspect can be dealt with, in the Committee's view, by ensuring the provision of sufficient funds to enable the continued publication of existing periodical literature of the Commission as a means of assisting in co-ordination and exchange of information and research, and by continued funding of the Australian Law Reform Agencies Conference. Our report makes recommendations to that effect. We also urge that various law reform agencies be encouraged, wherever practicable, to engage in joint projects, including the joint commissioning of independent research studies, in order to minimise the duplication of research and drafting effort. As part of this process of co-operation, we recommend the positive encouragement of mobility and exchange within and between law reform agencies. 
The question of co-ordination of uniform legislation between the several jurisdictions within Australia is a vexed one. In our report we examine in some detail the options which could be followed in order to achieve satisfactory machinery for the implementation of uniform laws in those areas where the present lack of uniformity has created a significant practical problem. Among the most significant of these areas are: Commercial law generally; defamation law and other laws affecting the media; family lawoutside Commonwealth jurisdiction- and other laws affecting personal status; and road traffic, carrier's and innkeeper's liability and other laws affecting travel and tourism. 
Our major recommendation here is that the Commonwealth Government seek to ensure the adoption by the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General of the 1975 resolution of the Australian Law Reform Agencies Conference. That resolution recommended a procedure whereby the law reform agencies, acting in concert, could suggest to the Standing Committee subjects considered appropriate for uniform laws which could then be assigned to one or more of the agencies on a co-operative basis for investigation and the formulation of draft uniform legislation. In our view, adoption of this recommendation would confer upon the agencies a significant consultative role in the initiation and development of proposals for uniform law reform. Linked to this are our further recommendations that measures be taken to establish an efficient permanent secretariat for the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General and that the Standing Committee's research requirements be met if possible, by employing the resources of the existing law reform agencies or, as a less satisfactory alternative, by the addition of expert researchers to the Committee's permanent secretariat. 
I wish to stress once more the importance which the Committee attaches to this report. There are limited resources available for law reform. They must be spent to achieve maximum effect. The various law reform agencies serve a valuable function in areas which, at first glance, may seem unexciting and, indeed, unimportant. Yet their role is vital in keeping our laws abreast of our changing social needs. If this role is not to be ineffective, steps must be taken to see that their reform proposals are properly considered, co-ordinated and, ultimately, implemented in legislative form. The Committee believes that its recommendations go a long way towards this goal. 
In compiling its report, the Committee has been assisted by  Mr John  Goldring, college fellow in law at the Canberra College of Advanced Education. I wish also to mention the contribution made by  Senator Evans,  whose specialist knowledge in the area of law reform has been especially valuable to the Committee on this reference. Finally, I should mention the important contribution of the former Secretary to the Committee,  Mr Malcolm  Starr, who recently transferred to another area of duty. 
-I know that an amendment is to be moved to this clause, but once again I should like to raise with the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)-  I did so in my speech on the second reading debate- the question of the status of the general member of the Tribunal as provided for under sub-clauses (3) and (4) of this clause. It is true that subclause (4) states in a general way that a nonpresidential member shall not be someone who is engaged in the service of the Australian Public Service. It contains disqualifications. But of course the presidential member is qualified as a judge. We assume that he has certain capacities because of that. The person who is in the special category certainly is representative of certain knowledge and ability. He is either a public servant or a member of the community with certain knowledge or ability. He is therefore a qualified person. But I suggest that the general member is the lame duck in this group because the only qualifications he needs are those set out in subclause (3) which states: 
A person appointed as a non-presidential member shall be a person whose standing and reputation in the community are such as to ensure public confidence in his integrity and fairness. 
That is, in itself, quite a nice qualification. One expects integrity and fairness in most people. But the person appointed could be the local butcher. I see nothing wrong with the local butcher. I have implicit faith in my local butcher because of what he knows about butchery. 
He might be. But it seems to me that  the  position  requires stronger  qualifications than just integrity and fairness. It requires the person who sits quietly on this Tribunal and is not open to public gaze to have some knowledge of and standing in respect of civil liberties. He should also have an understanding of the effect of these types of assessments on individuals and on their jobs. In other words, I put it to the Attorney-General that the qualifications for the position ought to be upgraded. They ought to be stronger. Appointees should have some knowledge or standing in regard to civil liberties. I do not say that those words necessarily must be the words used in the legislation. But I do say that the position requires a little more than just integrity and fairness. Integrity and fairness are all right but if a person has no training, no skill or no knowledge in the particular area with which he is dealing, I am afraid that the qualifications of 'integrity' and fairness' would be inadequate. It may well be that the persons who are appointed in this category are eminent people. Their appointment may be perfectly satisfactory. But I think that the Bill should ensure that it is going to be so, and that the qualifications for the position should be upgraded. I urge the Attorney-General to redraft this clause. 
I want to support my colleague,  Senator Puplick,  in what he has said tonight and express my concern at this clause. I spoke on the subject in the second reading debate. I expressed my concern that there was no adequate provision for retrospectivity. I then expressed my concern that this proposal had moved so far away from the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Hope. I do not propose to repeat the matters which  Senator Puplick  raised. We are in a difficult situation. Like him, I think that the solution suggested by the Opposition is not a practical one. It would be very difficult in many circumstances to have the Ombudsman consider a case years later and then have a complete review. Witnesses will have disappeared and evidence will not be available. I believe there are many people in the community today who are still suffering because adverse findings were made against them and because this problem cannot be solved. What I want to do, while adopting what has been said by  Senator Button,  is to draw attention to what I think is an inadequacy in proposed new clause 63A. It has already been pointed out that this is a matter for the Minister to decide based on past assessments and documents. He will decide whether there are special circumstances in which he will require the Tribunal to act. Only he has the discretion to do that. People may well not know the situation and therefore they may not be able to initiate the consideration that will propel the Minister into taking some action. Therefore, much is left in the Minister's hands. 
But the matter goes further than that. The limitations of this proposed new clause which will enable the Tribunal to inquire and report is even more evident when we look at clause 63A (3). In the case of ordinary security assessments- ones that happen now in futurothere is a situation under clause 58 and clause 59 where the Tribunal looks at the facts, makes a decision and that decision substitutes for the previous decision. It has that effect. But when we look at the provisions of this retrospective clause, we find that the provisions of clauses 58 and 59 do not apply in relation to a review. Clause 63(3) states that when the tribunal has made findings the Minister shall, subject to the requirements of security, take or cause to be taken such action in relation to these findings, by way of communication or publication of the findings or alteration of records, as he considers appropriate in the interests of justice. 
Once again, it is entirely the Minister's decision as to what is just and what should be done. The clause does not have the effect, therefore, of the ordinary appeal provisions in relation to security assessments. It is a poor, miserable recompense, I think, for somebody who has suffered perhaps for years from security findings which are perhaps based on malice or just plain ignorance or stupidity. 
-He has no right to get to court and no guarantee that even if he gets to the Tribunal and it makes a finding, that the Minister will act upon it. From this point of view I think it is a relatively poor remedy. I realise, as  Senator Puplick  does, that we do not have a solution to this. It is obvious that we cannot go through all the records of ASIO and repair them. No one can expect that there should be a complete recasting and a rehearing of records obtained over many years. But I do not think that this provision is good enough. I still hope that the Government will look at this situation. 
-I think that the Ombudsman could well have a place in this. 
I do not think that the Opposition 's solution can deal with every case. I do not think we can proceed on the basis that it will be possible to review every decision. There is something in-between. 
The Ombudsman, I agree, should come into it. I am not sure how far he should come into it. What I am saying is that your solution obviously is not acceptable to the Government. 
-No, that is not the situation. People like  Senator Puplick  and me have been considering this Bill for a long time. We have endeavoured to obtain certain alterations. We have perhaps succeeded in obtaining some alterations. We are not in a position now suddenly to vote for this amendment or that amendment and to ditch our colleagues after they have given consideration to the legislation. The honourable senator belongs to a party which has most rigid discipline. We do not have that in our party. We make our own decisions. But at the same time we will not-- 
-No, I will not let the honourable senator keep on interrupting me because I want to make this point: We will not act unilaterally as individuals and decide on one night to support this or that amendment. We have tried and we will continue to try, perhaps to the exasperation of some of our colleagues, to obtain alterations to this legislation. I will continue to speak to the end of this debate and I will move an amendment before the night is over which I hope in general will have the effect of ensuring that there will be some review of these very - 
I am delighted about what has happened to those two gentlemen. After all, the honourable senator must remember that I voted for the expulsion of one of them. 
I am very happy to compromise. But I am not the government of this country. The Government makes the ultimate decisions and this legislation is the Government's legislation. As members of the Labor Party, honourable senators opposite are bound by a cause and are bound to take decisions. But in our Party, we have a choice and we make a choice. The choice is that I will not impose my universal view for an alteration of legislation which is not acceptable. But I will continue to persuade and endeavour to persuade this Government that this clause is not good enough and that it needs to be improved. Strangely enough, another House will sit in review of this legislation. I hope that the members in that House will wake from their slumbers and do something about improving this Bill so that it will come back to us finally in some better form. That may be a fanciful idea but I believe that following this debate there will be time to enable this legislation to be considered and improved. Certainly this clause needs improvement and I am not afraid to say so. 
I gave notice about a month ago of my proposal to insert a new clause 94 as follows: 
This Act, and any regulations made under section 93, shall cease to have effect and shall be deemed to have been repealed upon the expiration of a period of five years from the date of commencement of the Act. 
This proposal follows what I think is the course of the debate and the fact that we have not in any real sense written into the legislation provision for accountability to Parliament. There is of course no likelihood that the Parliament, once it passes this very important and powerful piece of legislation, will continue to have any real powers to scrutinise the way in which those powers will work. They are extremely wide powers. In many respects they will permit ASIO to do things which were done in the past and were shown to be illegal. It seems to me proper that there should be an opportunity of seeing how these new powers will operate. We have engaged in some 28 hours of discussion of amendments. Some have been refused, some have been accepted and we have had indications of the possibility of acceptance of further amendments. 
There is no certainty that there is a fixed and certain way in which ASIO should work. None of us in this chamber is very knowledgable about the workings of ASIO. We know that only half of the reports of  Mr Justice  Hope have been made public. We do not know and we can only surmise what is in the rest of the documents. Therefore, as members of parliament, we work in a most fallible fashion and must continue to work in such a fashion so far as our scrutiny of ASIO is concerned. I believe that some solution needs to be found to this inability of members of Parliament to scrutinise. I do not know what the Government's attitude is to the solution which I have just proposed for the benefit of members of this Committee. I read the newspapers and I have had indicated to me that it is not particularly enamoured of the proposal which I have made. Nobody has told me. I would not have a clue as to what the Government's attitude is. But I am not the Leader of the Opposition; I am just a back bench Government senator. We will no doubt hear the Government's view. 
We have not appointed a parliamentary committee to investigate this matter. I think it is a great pity that there is no scrutinising committee from which we could gain an indication from time to time, as is the case in some other parts of the world. That would have been a possibility.  Mr Justice  Hope rejected that proposal and the Government has rejected it as well. All we are really left with at the moment is a somewhat vague promise that in three years or so  Mr Justice  Hope may look again at this matter. It is not sufficient to have vague promises. Such a proposal, if contained in the legislation, might be better than the one which I am making now. But it is not there. There should be some certainty that after a period these very new and untried powers will be looked at. We will need to see whether they are working well or whether they need some alteration. They would not need the type of investigation which  Mr Justice  Hope undertook. The legislation would not require the complete scrutiny it was given in the past. It would need something more direct. We would need to see how the powers had been used and whether further amendments were needed. Amendments may come forward in the future but surely we must be in a position of knowing from someone's scrutiny whether there is a need for a change in the legislation. 
I have come forward with a proposal to insert what has been described as a sunset clause. Sunset clauses are obviously going to be contained in legislation in the future in a number of States in Australia. Organisations are not going to continue indefinitely to operate without challenge but they will have to justify their existence. I do not think that the insertion of a sunset clause would mean that ASIO would come to an end. I am suggesting that if this legislation has a fixed limit it will be necessary for some investigation to be undertaken. Then the Parliament would retain some power and new and amending legislation would have to go through the Parliament before that period had expired. For those reasons I believe that the amendment which I have put forward is a practical and sensible one. I do not know what sort of support it has. I will test it now. I move: 
Page 33, after clause 93, add the following new clause: 
This Act, and any regulations made under section 93, shall cease to have effect and shall be deemed to have been repealed upon the expiration of a period of five years from the date of commencement of the Act. '. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 20 March 1979: 
1 ) How many unemployed persons are currently being employed under the Special Youth Employment Training Program (SYETP). 
What measures is the Government taking to ensure that employers and the Commonwealth Employment Service do not use the SYETP program solely as a job creation measure by reducing emphasis on training aspects. 
Did the official SYETP employer pilot study reveal that, for every five SYETP subsidies paid, only one job was created. 
What precautions is the Government taking to guard against employers' sacking SYETP employees as soon as the subsidy period expires, and replacing them with a new trainee under the scheme. 
Does the Government intend to amend the present legislation which allows an employer to hire a succession of trainees under the SYETP scheme and yet makes young people themselves eligible for only one period of SYETP subsidised training. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 April 1979: 
1 ) When and where will the long-promised Broadcasting Information Office be established. 
What services will be offered by the new office, and will there be monitoring and taping facilities available for use by the general public. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 April 1 979: 
1 ) How much has already been spent by the Government on the current hearings, relating to Television Stations Licensing, which are being conducted throughout Australia by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. 
What evidence does the Government have that this expenditure has been justified. 
What credentials and qualifications are required by an applicant seeking the position of Chairman of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. 
Have any safeguards been adopted to ensure that the  Chairman  of the Tribunal remains impartial; if so: (a) what are the details; and (b) how are the safeguards enforced. 
I present the following petition from 7 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Federal Government exert Diplomatic pressure on the Soviet Authorities to secure release from detention of a Soviet citizen  Mr Igor  Ogurtsov, a graduate of the University of Leningrad, who was sentenced to seven years gaol, eight years hard labour and five years internal exile- a total of twenty years, in accordance with Articles 64a and 72 of  the  US.S.R. Criminal Code. 

 Mr Ogurtsov, now aged 40, has already served eleven years of his sentence and is currently held in Concentration Camp No. VS 389.35-Permskaya Oblast, Stanitsa Vsehsviatskaya. 
His health has deteriorated to the extent, that he is not expected to live long enough to see his release from detention. 

 Mr Ogurtsov 's only 'crime' is, that he is a Christian, and has participated in a discussion group on the future of a Christian-Democratic System in Russia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I draw the attention of the Minister for Science and the Environment to claims by the Nature Conservation Council of New South Wales that one of the world's unique beauty spots, Lord Howe Island, is in danger of ruination by well-intentioned incompetents. Is the Minister aware of the claims reported in the Australian of 3 August 1979 that, unless the island is proclaimed a national park, several species of birds on the island may become extinct? Is the Minister aware also of the possibility that one day the island will feature on the World Heritage list, earmarked for preservation at all costs? To what extent does the Commonwealth Government regard this matter as part of its responsibility or the responsiblity of its instrumentalities? Does the Minister agree that immediate action must be taken to prevent any further destruction of the island 's habitat? If so, will he assure the Senate that strong pressure will be brought upon the New South Wales Government to have the island declared a national park, managed by the National Parks and Wildlife Service? 
-I feel that I should say a few words at least on this subject, even though I had not contemplated doing so. While I drew attention to what seemed to be some rather remarkable  inconsistency in tone and approach between the two speakers from the Opposition on one aspect, I must say that on this last aspect I also express some concern. I will not be voting for the Opposition amendment, I am not endeavouring to change the Bill, but I hope the Government will look further at this question of pro rata payments. It does seem to me that there is a great deal of sense in what has just been said about the provisions in relation to a judge who perhaps sensibly ought to retire before a period has elapsed. Not to make provision in respect of judges whilst they are made in respect of other persons, public servants and so forth, seems to me very considerably a matter of injustice and a matter of folly. So far as this aspect is concerned, I would be very interested to hear why there should not be a pro rata provision. This is why I hope that the Government will look further into this matter. If it is persuaded by some foolish propaganda by persons that it is not desirable to give judges too much, and this is thought to be something which is too much, I should like it known that I do not think it is, and I never have thought it was too much. It seems to me that this is something which the judges could rightly have expected to have had in this legislation, but it is something which is not there. Therefore, I rise to express my own concern that this provision is not in the legislation and hope that the Government will look at it again. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 8 May 1979: 
How many of the 600 Timorese family reunions planned to take place in Australia had occurred as at 3 May 1979. 
What criteria are employed by the Government to assess the suitability of Timorese applicants seeking reunion with their families in Australia. 
At what stage of processing are arrangements for the remaining Timorese nominees selected for reunion with their families in Australia and when will these be completed. 
Has an Australian Immigration official been seconded to Dili; if so, what tasks does this officer perform there. 
What action is the Government taking to ensure that the initial agreement between Australia and Indonesia relating to the two-way reunion of Timorese families is honoured by the Indonesian Government. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. I refer to the statement made in the Senate by  Senator Carrick  on 29 May 1978 relating to the use of the Atomic Energy Act 1953 in respect of commercial uranium operations and its effect on civil liberties. In response to debate on the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill 1978,  Senator Carrick,  on behalf of the Minister for National Development, stated: 
Now that particular aspects of the Atomic Energy Act may bc used, it is a good time to reflect and amend if necessary. 
I ask the Minister whether this suggestion has been taken up by the Government. If not, will the Minister assure the Senate that some immediate steps will be taken to seek a thorough review of this important Act? In the interests of civil liberties, will the Minister also give his assurance that other legislative measures more appropriate to commercial operations such as Ranger will be considered? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I draw his attention to reports received from the Australian Catholic Study Circle for Animal Welfare relating to actions by Australia's representative at the International Whaling Commission meeting in Tokyo last December. Is the Minister aware of these reports, which claim that our Commissioner acted in a highly questionable manner by abstaining from voting with the proconservationist bloc in one of the secret committee sessions, although voting with it at the public plenary session on the same questions? Does the Minister agree that such conduct undermines international belief in the sincerity of Australia's approach to whale conservation? Will the Minister investigate these claims, and will he assure the Senate that Australia's policy of vigorous and active protection of whales is consistently pursued in future private and public sessions of the International Whaling Commission? 
I am surprised somewhat at the reservations which  Senator Cavanagh  has about this amendment which the Regulations and Ordinances Committee has wanted to see introduced. The Committee has wanted to see the position changed and regularised for some period. The initiative came from the Committee of which  Senator Cavanagh  is the  Deputy Chairman  and I am the  Chairman.  The Standing Orders Committee has dealt with this matter very effectively. I hope that this motion will be passed and that the matter will be put in order. 
The Regulations and Ordinances Committee for some years now has been assuming some duties. However, it has not been clear whether it has been properly and necessarily entitled to do so. The position has been accepted by the Senate. The Committee has reported to the Senate in respect of a number of matters which probably are not regulations in the correct sense. The Senate has acted on those reports. I suppose that in a de facto way we have enjoyed the powers for some time. The honourable senator's complaint on the subject of legislative character concerns the fact that there is a grey area, as he says. Indeed, there is a grey area and no words will make the position absolutely clear. Standing Order 36A creates the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. It sets out the method of appointment of the Committee and gives it certain duties. One duty is to deal with regulations and ordinances which are laid on the table and then referred to the Committee for consideration. The Committee wants to be able to make determinations on what it ought to do. This is a matter involving the Committee 's duty. 
Any honourable senator can move in this place for disallowance of a regulation. The amendment does not take away that right. The rights of honourable senators are still there. But whether there is to be imposed upon the Regulations and Ordinances Committee a duty to look into those other documents that do not come within the normal definition of regulation and ordinance is a matter that needs to be defined to some extent. What remains is this determination: Is it a matter of a legislative character? One can have in mind a number of things. I refer to the type of orders that are laid on the table, matters in relation to the planning of Canberra, certain areas and sites and so forth which clearly do not create legislation. They clearly do not change the law. They clearly do not lay down particular rights and obligations of people in the normal sense of the word. I think that in common sense they would be seen to be not of a legislative character. 
This would be an arduous and useless duty to impose upon the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, with its limited criteria. The Committee is limited mainly to looking at questions of civil liberties and at the rights of individuals and whether they have been interfered with. To require the Committee and its advisers to look at all the material that is laid on the table of the Houses of Parliament would be arduous and unnecessary and would lead to inefficiency. Therefore, although there can be some feeling that these words are not as clear as  Senator Cavanagh  would care, they leave the duty essentially to the Regulations and Ordinances Committee to see whether a document that is subject to disallowance is one of the nature specified and therefore one that the Committee ought to report to the Senate. I think that the matter is sufficiently and satisfactorily dealt with in the new proposed Standing Orders. I support the Standing Order and hope that it will be adopted. 
I regret that it does appear that  Senator Georges  is still in solitary confinement in his mind. Whilst the Standing Orders Committee report points out that on some occasions there has been a failure to answer questions adequately, in the main the Committee considers that departmental representation before Estimates committees has been adequate. The report to us is that in the main it has been adequate. Now we are asked to note the paper and at the end to say that the representation has not been adequate in our opinion. As a committee, sitting here, I think we would be much more sensible to reject it than go through such nonsense of noting it and saying that we entirely disagree with the conclusion contained in the report. I would suggest that the report is careful insofar as it does raise the criticism which has been made and insofar as it does say that, in the opinion of the Committee, in the main the information supplied by departmental representatives to the committee has been adequate. As a number of speakers have pointed out, and as  Senator Wriedt  has said, this generally has been so. I think generally it has been the experience of most of us that this has been so in recent years. I think it would be a disgrace for the Senate - 
-I do not know, but I would invite the Committee - 
-I cannot tell the honourable senator that because I cannot see into the minds of members of the Standing Orders Committee.  Senator Georges  would be in a better position to do that because he is a member of the Standing Orders Committee. He has not seen fit to tell us what was in their minds. I cannot tell the honourable senator because I was not there and I do not know. Speaking as a senator, and I believe I am speaking for other senators here, I believe we would say that the representation before the Estimates committees is on the whole admirable, that departmental representatives do a good job and do their best. Naturally there will be criticisms from time to time, but I believe we can say that the conclusion by the committee is a sensible conclusion, that in the main the representation has been adequate, and perhaps more than that. The departmental representatives spend a lot of time in attendance at committees, and are kept waiting a long time. There are many things about representation which I think shows the long suffering nature of public servants in trying to satisfy members of the Senate in doing this job. 
I believe, therefore, that the report should be noted and should be accepted as it is. If we did what  Senator Georges  wanted, after noting this report all we would do would be to say the very opposite, that we think it is wrong. That would be a humbug and a stupidity, and would not do this Senate any credit. 
-I wish to say something about this proposal, to support what the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  said and certainly to support his comment that the proposal outlined in paragraph 18 of the report should not be brought into effect by way of a Standing Order. I think that the Minister was right in saying that. I do not think that it would fit in very well as a Standing Order. What has happened is that the Senate Standing Orders Committee put up a proposal which was not accepted by the Government. But the Government responded by making a decision on how it will behave. That decision was announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 26 May 1978. The decision was made not just in relation to Senate committee reports but in relation to all parliamentary reports. The Prime Minister announced that within six months of the tabling of a committee report the Government would announce its attitude towards the report and what action would be taken. I think that that is a valuable initiative. lt is true, as the Minister said, that that does not bind future governments, but it is not a matter which one can see fitting easily into a Standing Order. We are not in a position to demand that the Government do such things. We could take action, politically or otherwise, if the Government did not do those things, but we as a Senate are not in a position to require it to do those things. Paragraph 1 8 relates to the records being kept by the Senate Records Office, just as it keeps and distributes other records to us at the end of every session to tell us how many Bills were passed during that session and so forth. That Office does a number of things in this regard. However, I do not think that they are matters which are set out in any detail in the Standing Orders, and rightly so. Obviously the issue we are discussing is another such issue. We are asked to endorse the following proposal:   . . that the  President,  from time to time, as considered necessary, inform the Senate when Government statements are not presented within the prescribed time. 
There are more examples of this system in operation than the one given by  Senator Mason.  I do not know that the report to which he referred was the first report which came under this procedure. The Government regarded itself as being bound in regard to reports which were presented to the Parliament before the statement of 26 May 1978 was made and since that date it has made a number of statements to the Parliament concerning reports which were presented to either House of Parliament before that date. One particular report which was presented, I think, immediately before that date was the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on the abolition of the priority given to Crown debts. It is more than a yearalmost 15 months- since that report was presented and no Government statement has been made on it. I think that a further three reports of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs- one in respect of rules of court and two in respect ofthe scrutiny of debts and the delegation of parliamentary authority- were presented more than six months ago but no Government statement has yet been made on them. 1 know that that is not an exceptional situation; a number of reports are in the same category. So I think that clearly, if we can note this recommendation and have it adopted, a case might persuasively be put to the  President  that the time is well here when the Senate should be advised of the  Government's  position in regard to reports, probably Senate reports and House of Representatives reports. 
There is no doubt that there is a great deal of dissatisfaction in the community. When people have given evidence before committees, reports have been presented and have been given a certain amount of publicity those people expect to see some action taken. They might know that the Government has made an announcement to the effect that it will announce its intentions in respect of the reports of committees within six months of their presentation to the Parliament. But then nothing happens. People suspect all kinds of things, often wrongly, because there is such a delay and not a carrying out of the undertaking. I regard this as an important recommendation. It does not create a Standing Order and I do not believe that it can create a Standing Order because, if it did, we would have to try to find some way of putting into the Standing Order the initial requirement of the Government. I do not see how we could do that. This is a sort of supplementary part of the procedure- the way in which it is carried out; the way in which this Senate is kept informed concerning the reports which have come before it and is advised of what the Government intends to do about them. We cannot keep all the reports in our minds. We can keep our own committees in mind, perhaps, but I think we want to be better informed as to the situation. Therefore, I find this a valuable recommendation which I believe should . be adopted. 
-I think that it is necessary to explain trie purpose of the sessional order. I come into this debate with some amazement that both my colleagues  Senator Hamer,  who has damned it with faint praise, and  Senator Cavanagh,  who has opposed it, do not appear to understand why the sessional order was adopted as a temporary sessional order, and since it has not yet been used and brought into effective operation, why it is now proposed to repeat it. It must be known by all honourable members of the Senate that the House of Representatives has developed a system of legislative committees to handle- as the 
British House of Commons does with miniBills the Committee stages in a smaller committee and not in the Committee of the Whole, which has been our habit and their habit over many years of dealing with the Committee stage. That was cumbersome and it meant that many people who were not interested in the Bill were elsewhere. 
So it was proposed that we have more than one committee in existence dealing with different Bills. The House of Representatives has adopted such a system and is now effectively using it. It has the jump on us. It is ahead of us in this area. Let us not forget that. We are good in the committee system. We have a lot of things in the Senate that we can say are good, but here is one case where the House of Representatives has gone ahead. We have not gone ahead, and it is time that we did. 
The purpose of this sessional order was to use the Senate committee system to deal with the Committee stage of Bills. This is additional. The power to send Bills to committees at second reading stages, as pointed out by  Senator Cavanagh,  has been in existence for years. We have all been part of that process, particularly the committee that I am now  Chairman  of, the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Several Bills have been referred to 'that committee at various stages, one of them being the Crimes (Foreign Incursions and Recruitment) Bill. We struck some trouble in the Committee stage and it went to the standing committee for examination. The Family Law Bill was referred to the Committee at an early stage before there had been any second reading debate, and before views had hardened. 
Those powers that we have continue and they will continue. Of course, this sessional order is designed for us to adopt a method of handling the Committee stage of the debate. Despite what  Senator Cavanagh  has said, far from tying down and restricting us, this is a further method. It is an additional power. It is an additional way in which we will be able to refer Bills- I hope that there will be lots of Bills- to committees. We decided that the Bills should be referred to the existing legislative and general purpose standing committees, which were always thought to be able to do this sort of thing. We have not set up separate legislative committees as the House of Commons and the House of Representatives have done. 
The proposal is that our existing committees will take this on as an additional task. That does put some limitation on the number of Bills they can deal with. It also imposes certain other restrictions, because there has to be a determination and a method has to be worked out whereby a decision is made which Bills are to be referred. Is it to be the Government that will decide that certain Bills will go into the Committee stage? One may expect and one may find in the House of Representatives more fluidity in the voting and the activities of members of the different parties. Therefore, governments may find that they may have been defeated on amendments in this sort of system. They may be forced to go back into the report stage to try to take out the amendments. Therefore, there is some embarrassment for governments and there may well be a great desire by governments not to have some Bills referred to a committee before the completion of the second reading stage. Who decides it? Surely it cannot be left to governments to decide. Surely it cannot be left to each of our eight legislative and general committees to decide that we want such and such a Bill and that it ought to come to us if we moved for it. Some Bills may have equal interest on application to more than one committee. A Bill in regard to trade practices might be the concern of the Senate Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce, but also perhaps the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I just take an example. 
-The Archives Bill has been referred to two committees. It has gone to  Senator Davidson's  Committee, the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts. It has also gone to my committee for consideration of the freedom of information aspect. This sort of situation may well arise so there must be a method whereby there is a determination made by some independent body of some group of the chamber that is going to sit down and decide that it is appropriate that this Bill ought to go into a legisalative committee stage and that it is appropriate it should go to that committee. These decisions have not yet been worked out. We have not yet brought into effective operation that sessional order which we had as a temporary sessional order last year, so it is being repeated this year. This year is nearly over. I hope that we will get down to putting it into practical operation. I hope that the certain Jeremiah-type views which I regret my learned, distinguished and noble colleague,  Senator Hamer  - 
I am sorry, gallant, not noble. 
That may be so. I regret the pessimism and the lack of faith shown by him and my distinguished colleague  Senator Cavanagh  in this regard. I hope that this sessional order will be repeated and we will actually get it on the tracks and going. 
-by leave-I must say that it is only as this matter has unfolded that I have had any worries about it. We are being asked on the run to do something which did not strike me at first as being other than sensible in cases where things may be quoted out of context. On the other hand, as has been pointed out by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick),  the person concerned, whom I have no brief for and do not know, may well wish to take proceedings and could take proceedings if the documents are inaccurate and the statements in them are defamatory. I have not looked at the question of the extent to which he may be able to do that or the way in which that right may be prejudiced by the fact that the documents to be incorporated in  Hansard  will be the subject of privilege once they are incorporated. To that extent they will be privileged documents. 
-No. So far as the broadcast last night is concerned, that is so. 
-Yes, I am talking about future defamation. I am talking about the position if the documents are inaccurate or false. They may not be. I do not know whether they are. The documents which are to be incorporated in  Hansard,  which are obviously more than appeared last night, may be such that they will lead to a person desiring to take action but that person might be debarred from taking action because the documents are the subject of parliamentary privilege once they are tabled or incorporated in  Hansard.  I am just wondering whether, as  Senator Chipp  has said, the matter ought not to have a little bit of - 
I am not saying that that may be so. It may well be nonsense. I would invite the provision of further information because I am making this comment on the run. If it is nonsense, I will be happy to know why. But I have slight qualms about the matter and wonder whether it ought to be held up for a day or two so that it can be looked at a little further. 

 Senator CARRICK (New South WalesLeader of the Government in the Senate)- by leave- I have no objection at all to a pause being allowed for consideration of this matter. It was in seeking justice and truth that I sought to incorporate these documents in  Hansard.  When considering  Senator Missen  's suggestion, which was an interesting one, one must look at this matter post facto. The fact is that last night a 90-minute broadcast was made and made publicly. If it was defamatory, the defamation has been done. It is also possible to obtain transcripts of that broadcast. If by any chance at all there is a legal technicality to which the action that I have sought to take would do harm, I would not want to take it. I am perfectly happy to accept the judgment of this Senate. If any honourable senator feels that there should be a delay of 24 hours to obtain a legal view, I will abide by that and seek leave to incorporate the documents in 24 hours time. 

 Senator WRIEDT (Tasmania-Leader of the Opposition)- by leave-  Senator Carrick  is now offering to allow this matter to be held over for a period for consideration, particularly legal consideration. I would just say that the Opposition has no objection to the documents being tabled now. 

 Senator CARRICK (New South WalesLeader of the Government in the Senate)- by leave- I withdraw the request for the incorporation of the documents in  Hansard  today. During the next 24 hours I will seek information on the matter. If I find that there is no legal disability, I will bring them back for incorporation. 

 -Mr President, I present the 67th report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances consisting of a list of members of the Committee since its establishment, a chronological list of the reports of the Committee showing their subject matter and an index to all previous reports of the Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I refer the Minister for Science and the Environment to my question to him on Tuesday, 2 1 August 1979, relating to the position of Lord Howe Island, and to his reply the following day which merely repeated known facts as to the administration of the island, which was the reason for the complaint. I was denied the opportunity to ask a supplementary question in regard to the reply. I now repeat my question and request a positive response. I draw the Minister's attention to claims by the Nature Conservation Council of New South Wales that one of the world's unique beauty spots, Lord Howe Island, is in danger of ruination by wellintentioned incompetents. Is the Minister aware of the claims reported in the  Australian  of 3 August 1 979 that, unless the Island is proclaimed a national park, several species of birds on the island may become extinct? Is he also aware of the possibility that one day the island will feature on the World Heritage list, earmarked for preservation at all costs? To what extent does the Commonwealth Government regard this matter as part of its responsibility or the responsibility of its instrumentalities? Does the Minister agree that immediate action must be taken to prevent any further destruction of the island's habitat? If so, will he assure the Senate that strong pressure will be brought upon the New South Wales Government to have the island declared a national park, managed by the National Parks and Wildlife Service? 
I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs to disturbing reports received from Amnesty International and released on 23 August which claim that an estimated 1,000 Malaysians are being detained without trial by the Malaysian Government. Will the Minister advise the Senate of any knowledge concerning claims in the report that the treatment of prisoners during their detention is 'cruel, inhumane and degrading and in complete violation of the United Nations standard minimum rules for the treatment of prisoners'? In accordance with the Government's concern for human rights, will the Minister also urge the Government to call on the Malaysian Government to conduct a full investigation into the claims of torture and ill-treatment of detainees? 
I thank  Senator Button  for his contribution to the debate although I must with temerity point out that he has become a little confused about what these two reports are about. One might, on reading  Hansard,  think that the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs had the temerity actually to give a report on the Senate Standing Comittee on Science and the Environment. That, I would think - 
The honourable senator overestimates the bravery of the Senate Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs which would never dare to do such a thing. Perhaps I could just explain what these two reports actually did. Both reports were by a Standing Committee on a number of annual reports of statutory bodies that have been referred to our respective committees. It did happen that in our conclusions on those annual reports there is quite a remarkable similarity of problems which we have found in the various bodies, particularly the question of staff ceilings and the difficulties which were reported in a number of these areas. The ministerial statement, which was the basis of the vote which came subsequently to the tabling of those reports, is a somewhat short and graphic document. 
I would like to comment, as  Senator Button  has, on one or two of the things in that document. Certainly, one of the major matters which the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee reported on was the request of the Government to re-examine the Law Reform Commission's request that five extra staff members be appointed. We thought that cogent reasons were shown in the annual report of the Australian Law Reform Commission which had at the time, I think, nine further matters referred to it than it had had previously and the justification for its request for extra staff seemed to be evident in view of the extra burdens which had been placed upon it by the request of the Government. The Government's response, which is given on page 1 122 of the Senate  Hansard  of 29 March 1979 states as follows: 
The Attorney-General has taken the view that in a time of staffing restraints delays in references before the Law Reform Commission must be balanced against priorities in other areas of his portfolio. 
I do not think that is a satisfactory answer, particularly when additional matters, considered important by the Government, are referred to the Commission for report, in many cases within a fixed time limit. It is up to the Government to provide additional staff to cover that situation and not to rely on the mere balancing of priorities in other portfolios. In other words, the excessive load is created by Government decisions, proper decisions, to give the Law Reform Commission this work. I believe it has performed such work with a great deal of distinction and speed in recent years. 
The Commission's recommendations should be heeded. That is the subject of item No. 1 1 on the General Business paper, the report by my Committee, the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee, on reforming the law. But that is a different matter. It should have more staff to carry out its work. At present it has a staff of some 19 persons.  Mr Justice  Kirby appeared before one of the Government committees a few nights ago. One thing that has become evident is that the Law Reform Commission in some cases has a staff of one or one and a half workers doing what would be investigated in the United States by 100 people. They are doing the job very well. I think they have an excessive burden and that matter certainly has not been picked up by the ministerial statement to the satisfaction of members of my Committee and, I would think, of members of the Senate generally. 
The second matter in the Government's response to which I refer is in respect of the Administrative Review Council whose report the Committee considered. I will not respond to the science and environment questions because a separate committee handled them. Our recommendation was that the public seems unaware of innovations in administrative review. That is the way the Government response refers to the Committee's recommendations. The Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs recommended that the Government consider proposals to publicise the rights of the citizen to appeal against administrative decisions. I think there was a useful response because the Minister stated: 
An Administrative Law Handbook is being prepared and will be distributed through Government outlets. Both the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and the Ombudsman's Office have published information pamphlets and the Ombudsman and his staff have conducted a media campaign. Attorney-General 's Department and the staff of the Administrative Review Council have undertaken some seminar work in this field. There have also been  some  recent private publications.  1 think that this Administrative Law Handbook will be valuable because one of the problems referred to the Committee, and to the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, is the problem of people knowing their rights and knowing that they have certain entitlements. The Parliament continually creates laws and regulations and imposes obligations on people. It also gives them rights. But it does not do enough to tell people their rights and therefore there are people in the community who suffer inconvenience and hardship. Very often they are people who are not well educated, or are poor or ill, and they are not in a position to easily find out their rights. Such a handbook will be helpful in telling them their rights. 
The result of this exercise of looking at the annual reports is that the Government has responded somewhat positively in some areas; in others more could be done. Reading the reports of statutory bodies is the one means by which members of this Parliament can get to know their problems. As I have said, the Senate has to take a very close look at what the annual reports say. When weaknesses are demonstrated it is up to honourable senators to highlight them and bring them to the attention of the Government. It is then up to the Government to respond positively. I welcome  Senator Button's  short contribution. I am sorry that there is not more close attention given by many members outside the committees to the reports as they come down but, of course, I know that everybody in this chamber has a burden in trying to keep up with the paper which flows across our desks. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-in reply- I would like to make a few brief comments in reply to this debate. I want to thank my colleagues who have spoken in this debate,  Senator Evans  and  Senator Puplick,  who are members of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and who have stressed various recommendations of the report. I am sorry that at this stage the debate has not led to any expressed interest by other honourable senators because it seems to me that a number of the matters which are raised in this report are of vital importance to back bench members in the way in which they perform in the Parliament. The only other contributions to the debate tonight and on a previous occasion were made by  Senator Georges,  who is in the chamber at the moment, and by  Senator Cavanagh,  mainly by interjection. 

 Senator Georges recognised that he was a little mistaken about the facts with regard to  Senator Evans,  who had in fact finished his speech. I am not criticising him for that because it was a natural misunderstanding, but I think that what was at the basis of his criticism was quite right. During the consideration of General Business tonight there has been a relative lack of interest in the debates. Few honourable senators have been prepared to speak on the various issues. More honourable senators perhaps have spoken on this issue than on a number of the others. The real problem in relation to General Business matters on the Notice Paper is that there may be few speakers on the early items but honourable senators quite naturally do not expect later items to come on for debate. It seems to me that if back bench members of the Senate are to gain any real benefit from consideration of General Business items there must be much more interest in the reports and other documents which are presented here. If we are not going to be enthusiastic about these matters, how can we expect governments and busy Ministers to be enthusiastic about them? It is necessary that a greater interest be taken in them. 
I am sorry that  Senator Cavanagh  has departed from the fray. He made, by interjection, a remark which should not be left in  Hansard  unanswered. He said that the only purpose of reports and the like was to keep back benchers busy- as though these reports came forward on that basis only. I do not think that  Senator Cavanagh  really believes that because he is himself a  Deputy Chairman  of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee and in that capacity he is constantly bringing forward probing areas and constantly keeping Ministers busy dealing with the matters that he so rightly raises as an honourable senator. Therefore, he does not practice what he suggested in his interjection. I do not think that he believes it. I believe that what he has suggested is not so; that members of the standing committees of the Senate are in fact enthusiastic and keen. It is a pity that we do not find more enthusiasm expressed, more reports read and more keenness evident. When reports are neglected and not acted upon for some period, honourable senators should rise in the Senate and do something about it. We are perhaps very quiet in that regard, when one considers that the report on the priority of Crown debts is now 15 months overdue and no decision has been expressed by the Government concerning its views. 

 Senator Puplick, in an excellent contribution to the debate, has displayed an enthusiasm, which I share, for a better procedure for dealing with private member's Bills. I merely criticise, as I did by way of interjection, his remark which I know he did not really mean about a wait of six months being required so that the Government could report. I think he said: 'After six months'. I am sure that he agrees that we do not want governments to take six months to respond. One could have the dream that governments might be waiting eagerly for reports to come down in this place, and be ready to do something about them. That is perhaps too much to dream. But one would hope that governments and others who look at these reports would see in them matters that require urgent attention by the Parliament. 
The six months should be the maximum period during which some action could be expected. We should be able to hope, even if it happened only occasionally, that the Government would make a statement within two or three months of the tabling of a report concerning its proposals for implementation or otherwise. 
In the course of the debate which took place on this matter on 10 May, and in the course of what has been said tonight, it has been indicated that certain recommendations in the report are important. I refer to law reform and to the collecting of the reports of the Law Reform Commission of Australia. These recommendations ought to be implemented more quickly. We should ensure, as recommended in paragraph 5.11, that committees of the Parliament should have such reports referred to them. When the recommendations in turn come back they should be subject to the six months rule, so that there will be an element of timing and the Law Reform Commission reports will not go into the discard for a considerable period before being acted upon, when they are somewhat out of date and requiring further amendment. 
The recommendations that we have made, both in regard to the collection and assessment of law reform proposals, relate also to the coordination of the work of law reform, and to questions of uniform law, which are not as successful in this country as they should be. I hope that those recommendations will appeal to both the Government and to the members of the Parliament as worthy of constructive consideration and action. We await therefore with great interest and eagerness the reaction of the Government. I thank the members of the Senate and of the Committee who have contributed to the work on this report. I invite any honourable senator who has not read it to look at it and express his views upon it. I hope that we will find something coming from it so that the work of the Senate will again be found to be useful and justified. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
1 direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister and refer to my question of 4 April 1978 when I sought information regarding the Government's intention to ensure that there was a full parliamentary debate on the report of the Royal Commission into Human Relationships. In reply, the then Leader of the Government in the Senate referred to the Prime Minister's statement that: 
At an appropriate time it would be proper and necessary Tor a significant debate of the report to be held in this Parliament. 
I ask the Minister Does he believe that there has been sufficient public debate on this significant report? Does he also believe that it is now an appropriate time for the recommendations of the royal commission to be considered in this Parliament, and in particular in the Senate? 
-I would like to speak briefly on this very important report. I am surprised at the number of reports that fall within the category. Certainly there are more than we had anticipated when we knew that you,  Mr President,  were going to take this action. It does indicate a surprising breakdown of the undertaking; we should have expected more prompt attention to reports. Of course, they are reports only of Senate committees. We do not know what the situation is in regard to other reports that have been presented in the Parliament  from  the House of Representatives committees. J imagine that the greater number are Senate reports. I hope that this matter will be brought closely to the attention of the Government. One often gets the feeling that in this Parliament we are not separated by Kings Hall, but separated by an ocean from the House of Representatives. I hope that the tabling of this report is brought immediately to the attention of the Government so that something can be done to repair the omissions where clearly the Government's undertakings have not yet been carried out. 
I hope that that will be done. I hope that we will receive some response very soon. I do not know whether it is for you,  Mr President,  to draw it to the attention of the Government. I hope that at least the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  will draw it to the attention of the Government. Of course, I have not caught his eye, but I do hope that the Government will have brought to its knowledge the extent of the failure to comply with that undertaking which is evident in this report so that something can be done very quickly to overcome this situation. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
-I present the following petition from 10 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned members and ex-members of the Citizens Forces of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
On 14 February 1975, the then Australian Government deprived the Officers and men of the Australian Citizen Naval Military and Air Forces of the distinctive and historic Decorations and Medals for long service and good conduct, namely the Reserve Decoration, the Efficiency Decoration, the Air Efficiency Award, the Efficiency Medal and Long Service and Good Conduct Medals, awarded for long and meritorious voluntary service in the citizen forces: 
The proposed substitution of the National Medal for these Decorations and Medals varies the principle of selective recognition of efficient voluntary service in the citizen forces in that it recognises the period of service only and embraces also full time service as well in the defence forces as in the police, fire brigade and ambulance services: 
This deprivation caused and is continuing to cause serious discontent amongst personnel of the Citizens Forces who willingly and cheerfully give of their spare time outside their normal full time civilian careers, to serve Her Majesty and Australia: 
The Reserve Forces of Australia have been recognised by the present Government as a valuable- and costeffective component of the Defence Forces. Anomalously, whilst the Government is actually supporting recruiting for these Forces it has imposed and continued this deprivation which as foresaid has depressed the morale of the Citizen Forces: 
Her Majesty has not cancelled the said Decorations and Medals. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
Your Honourable House take appropriate action to resume the award of the several distinctive and historic Reserve Forces Decorations and Medals to members of the Royal Australian Naval Reserve, Citizens Military Force (Army Reserve) and Citizens Air Force. 
Petition received. 
I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs to an  Age  article of 5 September 1979 in which Professor Jerzy Zubrzycki, Chairman of the Australian Ethnic Affairs Council, alleges that Nazi-type racism is flourishing in Western Australia and that prejudice against non-European migrants is promoted there by a number of organisations. Will the Minister comment on Professor Zubrzycki 's further claim that there is in Western Australia a well-organised group of people spreading a gospel of hatred and falsehoods similar to the ideology of Nazis he had fought in 1939 when Hitler's armies invaded Poland? 
-No doubt the honourable senator knows all about it. Is the Government aware of this serious situation? Has the matter been referred to the Commissioner for Community Relations for further investigation? If not, what action will the Government take to overcome this problem so that justice and tolerance may be enjoyed by all sections of the Australian community? 
I draw the AttorneyGeneral 's attention to his statement in the Senate on 25 October 1978 regarding the Australian Legal Aid Office. In dealing with the question of legal aid for dissolution of marriage proceedings, the Attorney-General stated: 
. aid will not be granted for dissolution of marriage proceedings unless circumstances exist which, in the opinion of the Australian Legal Aid Office, render it imperative that the marriage be dissolved and the applicant is in a position of special hardship. 
Will the Attorney-General inform the Senate of the special circumstances which are applied in determining whether there is sufficient hardship to justify the granting of aid? Does the AttorneyGeneral agree that these restrictive special circumstances are denying assistance in cases of genuine hardship? Will he investigate the most recent guidelines for the Office with the aim of ensuring that assistance is made more accessible to those divorce applicants most in need? 
-I rise to speak briefly in this debate and to express my support for the motion  Senator Tate  has moved. I am sorry that I did not hear all of his speech, but I am sure that it was a very sincere and constructive speech. Obviously it was directed to two aspects of a motion which seemed to me to be highly desirable for this Senate to support. I must join issue slightly with  Senator Melzer,  who has just spoken. I will not endeavour to set her speech to music but I will endeavour to suggest that perhaps the matter she first raised is one that was not a wise argument. I refer to the argument that she was ashamed to speak with people abroad- I think I can paraphrase it in this waybecause of our lack of action in regard to children in our own country. I put it to  Senator Melzer  that, just as this motion does not take that point of view but runs directly contrary to it, in fact that is not the attitude we should take. The motion very clearly is expressed upon the basis that we should take practical, constructive steps in regard to our three million Australian children and that we should be concerned with the 1 ,500 million children throughout the world. I believe that this argument often crops up. People constantly ask: 'Why should we do these things for Asians, for boat people and for people abroad? What about our people at home?' 
-I know that the honourable senator did not use that argument at all. I am saying that it is very often easy to get something which is very close to that argument, whereas, in fact, our obligation obviously is strong abroad and at home. I will not be disagreeing with  Senator Melzer's  view in regard to the children in Victoria. As she knows, I am very aware of the situation and of the matters about which she has spoken tonight. She spoke earlier on 4 June when I was absent. I read that speech with a great deal of interest. I know Miss Rosemary Crossley and admire the valiant effort she has made with the children in the hospitals in Victoria about whom  Senator Melzer  spoke. I have no reason to doubt, from the material in my possession, the truth of any of the matters which  Senator Melzer  has put before the Senate tonight. 
I have been endeavouring now for some time, as  Senator Melzer  knows, by way of communication with Federal and State Labor Party and Liberal Party members in Victoria to encourage a greater interest in this matter and to try to get discussion with the Ministers concerned to see whether something can be done. I believe that Federal moneys can certainly play a role. I believe that what  Senator Melzer  has said about the children in these hospitals- she referred to the suffering and the ways of living and also to the unsatisfactory nature of the hospitals- to be accurate. It accords with the evidence that I have been able to accumulate. I believe that a number of these children have intelligence and are, in fact, prisoners within their own bodies. I believe that they did not have the opportunity for education until, perhaps, Miss Rosemary Crossley, among others, came along. She has received quite inadequate support for the things she has been trying to do. 
I think that there has been a strange reluctance on the part of some of the authorities and the people working in that area to recognise the marvellous possibility that these people have intelligence. One can understand, perhaps, the reactions of some people who have been mistaken in their assessments in the past. But one would hope that what would rise above that would be the greater joy and pleasure of knowing that possibilities are being found for people like Anne MacDonald and the other children in the hospital. No doubt other people in other hospitals with sufficient attention, sufficient trained staff and sufficient money could be brought into a position where they could lead semiindependent, if not independent, lives. They would feel able, as personalities, to be treated separately and not- as they are- as babies at the age of 16, 17 or 18 years and put to bed at 4 o'clock in the afternoon. I refer also to the various other things and descriptions of life which  Senator Melzer  has given. 
I did not know that  Senator Melzer  was to speak on this subject this evening. I have endeavoured successfully to discuss this matter with people in Victoria.I have been reluctant to discuss the matter in the Senate because I have known that an inquiry is presently being conducted in Victoria. People with considerable eminence have been appointed to look into the situation and into the intelligence and the future of these children. That inquiry is going rather slowly- all too slowly, for my liking- but nonetheless an inquiry is being held into this matter. I do not seek to go further and to express firm and determined attitudes when an inquiry is setting itself to the task of making some sort of informed decision. Nonetheless, I believe that the time will not be far away when the Parliament should consider what it can do. Certainly State governments will need to do more. The report of 1977 which  Senator Melzer  referred to appears to contain many valuable suggestions for the future independence of people who suffer from a physical or mentally retarded state. I think that the recommendations of that report need to be implemented. No doubt governments at both Federal and State levels will have to ensure that something is done. I refer now to the children such as those mentioned. I feel a necessity exists for breaking up the huge hospital complexes with large and unsatisfactory wards into small homelike facilities which have adequate staff and services, where education is possible and where the children live as a family and do not have to be just one part of a huge mass. It seems to me from whatI have read that this is something to which our program concerning the infirm ought to contribute. I hope this is something we will examine in the near future. 
I compliment  Senator Melzer  on having raised this matter. I think that one cannot say a number of things which might run across the work of the inquiry that is proceeding at present, but I think the area mentioned in the motion is one where we need to be prepared to spend more money. It would not be economic money. It will cost a lot to keep people like this and to train them. The cost will not be j ustified on any basis of the amount of work the people will be able to do. They may not be able successfully to work in the future, but that is not the point. We have to be prepared to spend quite a bit more money to ensure that these children's lives are real and that they are not allowed to just be vegetables all their lives. Medical science makes it possible for these children to live longer. Previously perhaps people took the view: What is the use of educating these children because they will probably die before they reach 20 years of age? It is now known that they can live longer if they have proper chairs, proper equipment, proper living conditions and, more importantly, proper and better food. I gather that a remarkable change has been seen in the case of Anne MacDonald in a matter of a few months since she has been out of hospital. 
I think this illustration takes the motion which has been moved into perhaps one particular and definite area. It seems to me that there is a great deal the country has to do to concentrate more upon the needs of children. The fact is that in this year which is set aside in some special way we ought to concentrate on this aspect. I hope that this concentration does not stop at the end of the year. That is always the possibility with a year that is devoted to any particular group. I believe that this proposal is constructive and useful and one to which the Senate ought to give its support. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I invite the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to an article in the  Age  of 23 August 1979 relating to the Federal Government's ethnic radio station 3EA. Is the Minister aware of this report which claims that the Government authority financing the radio station, namely, the Special Broadcasting Service, does not know whether all of about $500,000 which it had allocated to pay broadcasters, contributors and part time employees working on ethnic programs has been adequately distributed? Is he also aware of claims that some broadcasters, nearly all of them working on Italian programs, have not received payments as prescribed by the Special Broadcasting 
Service? Will the Minister comment on these disturbing reports and, in doing so, assure the Senate that a thorough investigation will be made of the finances and administration of 3EA? 
-Tonight I bring to the attention of the Senate an area which I think is of great importance to us and to people in this country who believe in freedom. I refer to the forthcoming trials of Czechoslovakian dissidents who were members of Charter 77 and who are shortly to suffer a show trial. Some three years ago after I returned from Moscow, where I had visited the Amnesty organisation, I spoke in the Senate of the attempts by the Russian dissidents, under great pressure and a great deal of victimisation, to publicise the Helsinki Agreement and the responsibilities of the Soviet Union under that Agreement. May I quote from a speech I made on 1 8 August 1 976. It contains a statement which I think is very relevant to this issue because what I am speaking of tonight is really a sequel to that event. I said:  lt is regarded, and I say this with authority, as being most important that we highlight and bring to public notice the persecution of these individuals. That is the sort of thing which makes punishment less likely, lt makes the operations of such people more valuable and gives them a sense that they arc not alone in the world, and tells them that there are many other people who believe in the same values that they have. 
I must say that in addition to the people who suffered then people in the Soviet Union went to gaol because it was alleged that they were creating propaganda or defaming the Soviet Union, but in reality they were publicising the failures of their country to comply with the Helsinki Agreement of 1975. One of the other signatories to that Agreement was Czechoslovakia which likewise has demonstrated since that time not only that it has not complied with its obligations under the Agreement but also that it was prepared to victimise persons who, acting legally and in such a way as to try to improve their country, were merely trying to highlight the responsibilities of their country. Of course, at the moment there are forthcoming trials. 
This matter is urgent. The reason I raise it and hope that our Government, members of the Parliament and individuals in this country will highlight it is that trials of particularly the 10 people who were arrested on 29 May of this year are very imminent. They are all members of an organisation known as VONS. The purpose of VONS is really merely to highlight the responsibilities of Czechoslovakia. Consequently, they were all arrested and now await trial. The position, as I say, is that a spotlight needs to be turned on the actions of the Chechoslovakian Government. It is worth recalling the people who were arrested. Of course, they are not the only ones who have been victimised. The Charter 77 document was signed by something like 100 people. It was designed merely to explain the rights of the people under the Czechoslovakian constitution and is the subject of some fury from the Government in Czechoslovakia. The arrest of these 10 people was brought to the notice of the 
Amnesty organisation, which has made statements. As chairman of the parliamentary Amnesty group and at the group's request, I bring this matter to the notice of the Senate. 
Amnesty announced in June that it would ask the Government of Czechoslovakia for permission to observe the forthcoming trials. I think it will be important if that is allowed so that it can be seen how these trials are conducted. The defendants who were arrested on 29 May are all members of the Committee for the Defence of the Unjustly Prosecuted, which is known in Czechoslovakia as VONS. The Committee was formed in April 1978 by signatories to Charter 77 and, until the time its members were arrested, had issued 1 13 statements on human rights violations in Czechoslovakia. One of the 10 people, Petr Uhl, is reported to have been charged under Article 98(2b) of the Czechoslovakian Penal Code with conducting subversion on a large scale. He faces a sentence of between three and 10 years imprisonment. The other nine face possible prison terms of up to five years on charges of conducting 'activities inimical to the interest of the Czechoslavak State'. Amnesty has adopted the prisoners as prisoners of conscience. It is of the opinion that their detention infringes the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights which Czechoslovakia ratified in 1975. Therefore, it is responsible for its duties under that Covenant. 
The defendants are Otta Bednarova, Jarmila Belikova,  Dr Vaclav  Benda, Jiri Dienstbier Vaclav Havel,  Dr Ladsilav  Lis, Vaclav Maly, Dana Nemcova,  Dr Jiri  Nemec and Petr Uhl. Some of them are well known in the country. One is a playwright and one is well known for his television work. Others are lesser known. Other prisoners are held for similar reasons. Just because we are concerned with 10 of them does not mean that we are not concerned with others who are lesser known but who have suffered the same fate for merely trying to protect their country and ensure its observance of its obligations. It is interesting to note the activities of Vaclav Benda who is a Catholic and a former professor of philosophy. He was appointed a spokesman for Charter 77 earlier this year. He indicates a growing support by the Catholic community in Czechoslovakia for the cause which they brave. On 12 March this year Benda and his wife were charged with subversion of the republic. The police carried out a four-hour search in their flat. Benda 's wife was interrogated for four hours. Police confiscated books, private letters and Charter 77 documents. On 14 March the police raided their flat again after which a group of men with cameras rearranged the furniture, planted various objects and documents around the fiat and then made a film while the family looked on helplessly. I suppose that this is one of the typical examples of the way in which the power of the state is operating in Czechoslovakia. 
It is interesting to realise that there have been other trials before this. In 1972 there were trials of just over 100 people who had been arrested. Their offence had been to distribute leaflets reminding people of their constitutional rights not to vote or to vote by secret ballot. Of these 100 people, 46 were sentenced. That is the type of crime which is hard to imagine in this country but it happens in Czechoslovakia. The monitoring and publicising of the fate of those people prosecuted and imprisoned for their political views has also been carried out by VONS. In the last 18 months VONS has produced many statements documenting judicial proceedings against members of the Human Rights Movement. The important point is that VONS has sought to publicise only the facts which are in official court proceedings. But in Czechoslovakia such action is both extremely difficult and politically controversial. Under the Constitution court proceedings are public but in practice attendance is by invitation only. 
In an article which appeared in the  New Statesman  on 3 August 1979 various comments were made about the situation in regard to these dissidents. It was pointed out that since 1968 the Prague authorities have argued always that 'time is on our side'. Apparently that has been borne out. Inevitably, far more governments and journalists are prepared to accept the regime today than were prepared to accept it in 1968 even though it has grown harsher, not more lenient. At the same time, Western journalists often display a pack mentality. One year ago hundreds of articles appeared describing the plight of Czechoslovakia only because it was the tenth anniversary ofthe invasion. This August, it is safe to predict far fewer columns will be filled because 1 1 years is not a magic number. 
This is one of the real problems. It is very easy for people to say: 'Oh yes, we agree, but it is a long way away. We do not know very much about the situation.' They do not do anything about it. Yet the Western world can do something about it. It can write about it. The few countries in the world that are democracies must surely be the ones to speak with a very loud voice. If I may say so, from this article there appear to be other aspects of the situation which are very significant and indicate breaches of rights under both the International Covenant and the Helsinki Agreement rights which under the latter agreement, the Czechoslovakian State acknowledged, as it was obliged to do. Therein it guaranteed human rights and the right of its citizens to move around and to express themselves clearly. Honourable senators will be familiar with the terms of that agreement, but let me mention a few of the provisions of the Helsinki agreement and the International Convenant that have been breached. The arrests of these people were all for what must be recognised, by any common standard of civil liberty adopted in the world, as lawful acts. These people were merely expressing their views and exposing facts, as has been said in official court documents and proceedings. 
Secondly, the defendants have been arrested but they and their lawyers have not been given any idea of the details of the indictments. The  New Statesman  article to which I refer says: 
Since then the prosecution has drawn up a 6,000 page document outlining the 'offences' of the accused. The official indictments are now being drawn from this study. Unlike previous occasions, however, the defendants and their lawyers will be told of the precise indictments only at the very last moment. 
The reasons given are perhaps evident. It continues: 
The authorities do not want details of the charges to reach the West before the trial begins. 
Not only is that understandable as a reason but it is also a matter of gross injustice. It is contrary to all concepts of justice that the defendants should not be given the opportunity to meet the charges made against them. 
Secondly, one notes the activities that have been engaged in to frustrate the defence. For example,  Mr Havel's  lawyer,  Dr Josef  Danisz had to abandon the case on 1 July when he was expelled from the Prague Association of Lawyers. He was expelled because of his courageous defence of another spokesman. So they have that situation to face- they can lose their lawyers. The article also states: 
The authorities have drawn up lists of those lawyers who obstruct judicial proceedings' and those who arc under suspicion of doing so. The defendants have so far asked four French lawyers to represent them but do not expect the authorities' approval. 
So constant difficulties are imposed upon lawyers to ensure that cases are not properly prepared or presented. 
In addition, and I shall quote only some examples, we have the situation of the accused being held in a pre-trial situation in gaol. Charter 77 has released statements describing the conditions of detention, as follows: 
Whereas Czechoslovak law guarantees presumption of innocence, conditions in detention are more harsh than in labour camps and prisons. Detainees are kept in locked cells and are allowed only a 30 minute walk four times a week in a small yard. One letter may be written every 14 days but this is censured and Frequently confiscated. There is no automatic right to receive visitors- permission has to be granted. Warders frequently assault prisoners with truncheons and by spurting tear gas into their eyes. More disturbing in the Chartists' view is the long-term sensory deprivation which, combined with inadequate nutrition, bad hygiene and lack of exercise leads in many cases to mental illness, eye and skin diseases, tuberculosis, spinal curvature and high blood pressure. 
I am not suggesting that all ten are in that situation, but they are suffering and, of course, have not yet been found guilty of anything; they are awaiting trial. For all of these reasons we ought to raise our voices in protest against the attempt to deprive people of their rights. Even the people who are out of gaol there at present are suffering. One of those persons is a  Mrs Tominova.  She is one of many people who signed letters of protest to the  President  of Czechoslovakia complaining about the arrests. She has been a spokeswoman in this way.  Her  particular fate has been to have been attacked in the streets. She was beaten up outside her home in early June. Since then the police have protected her by mounting a 24-hour surveillance outside her flat. Armed guards stand at her door to stop anybody entering. In this way one gets some idea of the suffering in Czechoslovakia when people are prepared to put their names to a document in the interest of human liberty. I think the situation was summarised when VONS said: 
Wc know of no humane state in which the publicity declared intention to abide by its constitution is a priori held as an intention to overthrow the system. We know of no civilised country in which the intention to defend people who are unjustly persecuted ... is presented as a misdemeanour, an admission of guilt. 
That is the situation and the situation of these people who are awaiting trial now. It is incumbent upon us to raise our voices about this matter. I think it is also incumbent on our Government to make some representations because of the concern for liberty to which our country and our Government are dedicated. I think we ought to do it at this time, not waiting for the trial to be over, not waiting for this farce to be brought to an end, but now. 
I hope that people who are concerned with this matter and hear of it will also write to the Czechoslovakian authorities in this country. The Czechoslovakian Consulate-General is situated in Caledonian Street, Rose Bay, New South Wales. I hope that the ordinary citizens of this country will write to the authorities at that address to let them know that we are aware of this situation and that we are concerned to see it stopped. In those matters I am supported by other members, and certainly I have the support of the Amnesty group in this Parliament. I believe it is something to which we ought to give close attention. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. I preface it by drawing to the Minister's attention  Mr Anthony's  comments on the idea of a South Pacific economic union, reported in the  Australian  of 6 August 1979 as follows: 
. trading blocs are the name of the game today and only the giants- U.S., Japan and Europe- can go it alone. 
Does the Minister agree that Australia's economic future will depend largely on its involvement in the formation of a Pacific economic community? Does the Minister also agree that the establishment of Australia as the pivot of a South Pacific trading bloc will give us more leverage when negotiating to enter the Association of South East Asian Nations? Will the Minister inform the Senate what action is being taken to ensure that Australia plays a more constructive and progressive role in the establishment of good trading relations with South East Asia and the wider area of the Pacific basin region? 

 -Mr Deputy President, in accordance with the sessional order relating to the withdrawal of notices of motion for the disallowance of statutory instruments, I give notice that it is my intention, on behalf of  Senator Cavanagh  and at his request, to withdraw Business of the Senate notice of motion No. 1 when the notice of motion is called on. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to recent reports of a major human disaster in Kampuchea. Is the Minister aware of claims by  Dr Jean-  Yves 
Follezou in Paris that 'for four months the International Red Cross knew what was happening in Kampuchea and what was needed, and did nothing'? I ask the Minister what pressure is being brought by the Australian Government on the International Red Cross to ensure that, within its abilities, immediate relief is made available to this famine stricken nation? Will the Minister also assure the Senate that every effort will be made by Australia to supply as much additional direct aid as possible to the Kampuchean authorities for immediate distribution to those in need? 
I merely repeat what I have said. This statement is a matter in which I am very much interested and in which I am sure other honourable senators are interested. Surely the statement might be circulated this time so that at least we can see what lt is all about. 
-by leave- Business of the Senate Notice of Motion No. 1 relates to an amendment of the Immigration Ordinance of the Territory of Cocos (Keeling) Islands. The notice of motion was given as a result of inquiries by the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, and was given by the  Deputy Chairman  of the Committee,  Senator Cavanagh,  on the last available day for giving notice, to allow the Committee time to conclude its correspondence with the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott).  The matter which was of concern to the Committee was the power of the Minister to determine whether any person, including an Australian citizen and an inhabitant of the Territory, would be allowed to enter or reenter the Territory. Entry and re-entry are controlled by permits, and the only appeal against the refusal of the Administration to issue a permit is to the Minister. The Committee appreciates that this situation applies to the other external Territories, and applied to Cocos (Keeling) Islands before this amendment of the Ordinance. The amendment provided the Committee with an opportunity to consider the important question of principle involved, especially in the light of the establishment since 1975 of the system of administrative review. 
The Committee considers that the power of the Minister to refuse entry to the Territory is potentially a power which could seriously inhibit the rights of the citizen and of the Parliament. Apart from the position of an inhabitant of the Territory who may be refused re-entry, there is the situation of an Australian citizen, or a member of the Parliament, or even a parliamentary committee, who may wish to go to the Territory to gain information on its administration or perhaps to investigate grievances of the inhabitants. In these cases it is wrong in principle that the final decision on whether entry to the Territory will be granted should be left to the Minister. Obviously the Government must have some control over immigration into the Territory, as indeed it has complete control over the influx of aliens into Australia, but the cases I have mentioned indicate that the final say should not be left to the Executive. The Committee considers that there ought to be an appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal against a refusal to issue a permit, and there ought to be objective criteria on which the Tribunal can determine an appeal in accordance with the interests of the inhabitants of the Territory. This is not so important in relation to Norfolk Island, which now has self-government and has regular and frequent contact with the mainland, including a welldeveloped tourist traffic. The principles I have mentioned are of much greater importance in relation to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands and Christmas Island, which are much more isolated from Australia. 
The Committee has had correspondence with the Minister for Home Affairs and on behalf of the Committee I have had discussions with the Minister. The Minister has now indicated that he will consider any amendments of the Ordinance which the Committee proposes, and if agreement cannot be reached in relation to such amendments, he will repeal the Ordinance pending review of the matter, and may replace the Ordinance as a temporary measure. He has also indicated that he has ascertained that the Administrative Review Council is giving priority to its consideration of entry into the external Territories. In view of the undertakings given by the Minister, the Committee has determined that this Notice of Motion should be withdrawn. On behalf of  Senator Cavanagh,  and at his request, I withdraw Business of the Senate Notice of Motion No. 1 standing in his name. On behalf of the Committee, I thank the Minister for Home Affairs for the co-operation he has extended in this matter. 
I speak briefly to the motion raised by  Senator Evans.  The regulations which are the subject of  Senator Evans  'disallowance motion were also of concern to the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, but the Committee has not recommended disallowance of the regulations. I note what  Senator Evans  has said and I will comment on some of the matters he has raised. I think that basically what he is saying is correct, but perhaps he has made a somewhat colourful interpretation of some of the results. As  Senator Evans  has said, the regulations prescribe three organisations which, by virtue of being prescribed under the regulations, may be the subject of a ministerial declaration to exempt all or part of their accounts from audit by the Auditor-General. The Committee was not concerned with and did not consider the prescription of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and the Australian Secret Intelligence Service in the regulations. 
The question of whether these organisations ought to be exempt from audit has been discussed at length in the Senate. The Committee did not wish to express any view upon it, as a committee, although of course some individual members of the Committee have strong views on the matter. I was not present- I was out of the country- when the Committee discussed this matter. I certainly share with  Senator Evans  some of his reservations- he put it much higher than that; his objections- about the situation so far as ASIO and ASIS and their accountability are concerned. It is a matter which I and other senators raised in this chamber when the ASIO Bill was being discussed. Likewise there were discussions on this matter when the Audit Bill was before the Senate. One cannot feel very happy at the fact that the provisions which  Mr Justice  Hope put forward have not met with any arrangement by the Government to subject these organisations to accountability. I doubt that the way to deal with this is to deal with it, as it were, at the end with the regulation. We have passed the legislation. The regulations, disallowance of which the Committee considers it is not prepared to recommend, are such that they are the result of the Acts which have been passed. 
I certainly would not vote for this motion, as an individual senator, on the basis that it would not achieve the results in accountability which I think ought to be achieved. However, as I say, I do sympathise with the view which is held. I do not think the situation is satisfactory so far as those organisations are concerned. Of course in that regard the House of Representatives still has the ASIO Bill before it. One would hope that it would give some consideration to the whole question of financial accountability before the consideration of the matter is completed. 
The Regulations and Ordinances Committee was concerned with the prescription of the whole of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs in the regulations. The Committee considered that it was its duty to ensure that accounts of this Department were not exempted from audit except for the most cogent of reasons. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  has given the Committee a firm undertaking in writing that the only part of the accounts of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs which will be exempted from audit will be the Australian Customs Advance Account which is used by the Bureau of Customs for the investigation of narcotics smuggling. On the basis of this unequivocal undertaking, the Committee agreed to accept the regulations. The Committee will continue to scrutinise closely regulations made under the Audit Act to ensure that other departments and organisations are not exempt from audit except where it is clearly in the public interest that they should be so exempt. 
The Committee, as has been mentioned previously by  Senator Evans,  has had some correspondence with the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  about whether section 70d of the Audit Act might be amended so that it will not be necessary for the regulations to prescribe whole departments and organisations when it is intended to exempt from audit only part of the accounts of those departments and organisations. The Minister is still considering the matter. It has not been finalised. For the information of the Senate, I think that I should refer to a statement which the Committee made in its last letter to the Minister for Finance on 30 August 1979. Regarding this problem, the Committee said: 
The Committee has examined the opinion from the Second Parliamentary Counsel attached to your letter and is still of the opinion that it would be possible to amend the Audit Act so as to overcome the difficulty seen by the Committee. 
It went on to say: 
The difficulty seen by the Committee is that the Act allows the prescription of the whole of a department or authority, and once a department or authority is prescribed, the Minister is empowered to exempt all or any of the accounts of such department or authority from audit. The Parliament then has no control over what is exempted from audit unless it is known in advance how the Minister intends to use the power conferred upon him by the regulations, and the regulations may be accepted or disallowed by the Parliament on the basis of that knowledge. This places the Parliament in a somewhat awkward situation in deciding whether to accept the regulations. 
That is the situation as we see it. The last reply I received from the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  was a letter dated 1 1 September 1979 in which he said: 
I am writing to acknowledge receipt of your letter of 30 August 1979 concerning the Audit (Exempt Accounts) Regulations and to let you know that I am examining the practicability of your suggestion and the implications that may flow from it. 
I note that the Committee would like to have the benefit of my further consideration of the matter before the time for disposing of  Senator G.  Evans' motion for disallowance of the regulations has elapsed. I shall endeavour to let you know my views before then; however the number of sitting days which remain may make that difficult. 
Nevertheless I shall write to you again as soon as I can. 
That is where this uncompleted correspondence remains at the present time. As I have indicated, although the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances has not recommended the disallowance of the recommendations on the basis of the undertaking which has been given by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  it is still concerned to press for this suggested amendment. It is not satisfactory for the Parliament to have to deal with regulations in this convoluted fashion, and to accept them knowing that it will only be dealing, it hopes, with a small part of the accounts. The Committee will certainly keep this under review. I do not accept that the Committee has done other than its duty in this regard. It has made its determination that, as a committee, it should not make the recommendation. That does not stop any member of the Committee or any member of this Senate from supporting  Senator Evans'  motion if he thinks fit. I do not think the circumstances do justify the disallowance. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health and concerns the Government's recent decision to order off the market a range of commonly used drugs which in tests on rats were shown to contain the cancer-causing substance methapyrilene. Will the Minister inform the Senate why it took the Australian health authorities until early September to make this decision, given that in mid-June these drugs were withdrawn from the American market following intensive tests? Does the Minister agree that, in cases where a previously tested and approved substance suddenly comes under a cloud, all preparations containing that substance should be removed from sale immediately while evidence is examined and new tests are carried out? Does the Minister also agree that the onus for such action lies with governments? If so, will the Minister assure the Senate that in future efforts will be made to take immediate protective action when there is suspicion that a particular drug may be injurious to the public's health? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware that in striking contrast to airlines in other parts of the world, notably the United States of America, the two airlines in Australia rarely serve fresh fruit to their passengers? Does he agree that there is a need to publicise the availability of and to encourage the consumption of the excellent supplies of fresh fruit available in this country? Will he therefore urge the two airlines to improve their services in this regard? 
by leave- I was not until this morning aware that this statement was to be made. As one Liberal Party senator who is very concerned in this area, I want to make a few remarks. It is impossible to make a thorough analysis of the statement, which I think is somewhat vague, because of the inability to check this matter with people who may be concerned with it. There is a great deal of concern with the extent of the grant which, as has been pointed out by previous speakers, is a matter which has continued now for some years. It is as though inflation has not happened in this country. One wishes that that were so, but the fact that it remains so fixed is a matter of some concern. The statement goes on to say that there is to be discussion with the non-government environment and conservation groups to get their views, the views of the States and the views of the Australian Heritage Commission. I think that is excellent. I hope the views will be carefully considered before any decision is made. I hope there will be an opportunity for the members of the Senate, including back bench Government members, to have their views put forward. 
Not only do I think that there is a concern that there has been such a fixed amount available to existing groups, but also I think there is also a danger that groups which may pose as conservation groups and may set themselves forward with names that sound like conservation groups may well try to obtain this amount and, therefore, dilute still further the money which is available to genuine conservation groups in this community. So far as the argument which was raised by  Senator Mason  this morning in regard to the dollar for dollar basis and the statements made in this Senate that voluntary conservation groups should be seen to retain their impartiality and independence are concerned, I too say that it is not a matter where we should be expecting groups to spend much of their time in raising money and not doing the work that has to be done. 1 think it is excellent that they should raise money, but this is a national responsibility. It is a responsibility that should be of concern to all people in this community as to whether we are properly preserving the heritage of this country. 
I do not regard this as a matter where it is generosity on the part of governments to give moneys to groups which are purely voluntary. They are not selfish groups. They are not, in a sense, doing other than helpful work so far as the community is concerned and pointing out the necessity for national work. I do not know that this statement really comes across as recognising that fact sufficiently. I recognise that it is a temporary statement as to the progress of what has been done. It does not set out any final statements in regard to the amounts that will be paid and how they will be distributed. I wanted to make those few points in regard to this matter because many of us in this chamber are very concerned to see that we give more emphasis to the support which we are giving to the conservation movement in this country. 
I give notice that, 10 sitting days after today, I shall move: 
That the Fuels Control Ordinance 1979, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 14 of 1979, and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910, be disallowed. 
I draw the attention of the Minister for Science and the Environment to a report in the Melbourne  Herald  dated 25 September 1979 relating to the International Whaling Commission. Is the Minister aware of this report which claims that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics is trying to overturn the International Whaling Commission's partial ban on deep sea whaling by seeking to secure a quota of 1 ,500 sperm whales for the coming season? Is the Minister also aware that the Soviet Union's proposal has been sent to the 23 International Whaling Commission members for a postal vote by 17 October? Whilst appreciating the Prime Minister's strong statement on 12 July 1979 relating to recent whaling initiatives by Australia, I ask: Can the Minister assure the Senate that Australia's commitment to the protection of whales is strongly reaffirmed by campaigning and voting against this Soviet proposal? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and relates to the recent introduction of low alcohol beer and its wide acceptance since it has been placed on the market. I ask: Has the Government considered the benefits to the community of low alcohol beer, particularly the reduced alcohol intake by those who may subsequently drive cars? Does the Minister agree that, in the community interest, government impetus should be given to the encouragement of the consumption of low alcohol beer in preference to beers of the usual alcoholic content? If so, will he comment on the possibility of lowering the excise payable on low alcohol beer for this purpose? 
-by leave-I support what  Senator Martin  said. I am sure that she did not know that she would be raising this matter. A problem is often encountered by chairmen of committees when reports of other committees, departmental reports and ministerial statements concerning them are put down. A recent example- it happened within the last fortnight- was the statement by the Minister on the report by the Senate Standing Committee on 
Constitutional and Legal Affairs in regard to the priority of Crown debts. It is true that I sighted the ministerial statement an hour or two before it was delivered and therefore I was able to say something about it. But very often this is the one opportunity that arises in a practical sense under the parliamentary system for us to make some useful comment in such a way that the public will understand what is happening in regard to action on a report or, in this case, a report which is coming down and obviously affects another committee. 
I noted that in the report this year of Estimates Committee B there is a recommendation- I have now been advised of this-that a reference should go to my committee, the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee. I will not comment on the substance of that except to say that such a thing would well not be known by the  Chairman  of the committee concerned. When the matter arises he may want to make a comment. In the present circumstances this fact is known. But such things are done very often. Perhaps I am getting slightly off the point but I think it is relevant to point out that quite often senators move motions calling for matters to be referred to Senate committees. Unfortunately the people moving such motions very often do not check beforehand with the Senate committee or its  Chairman  to determine the availability of that committee to take up the reference, whether it will have time to deal with it, or whether the committee considers it irrelevant to its work and should go to another committee. That most unfortunate practice has developed in regard to putting down motions, lt seems mostly to concern my Committee. We seem to be the repository of investigations, and it is a problem. I did not hear what  Senator Evans  said, but I am sure that I agree with him if he made a complimentary remark to the Committee. It is also unfortunate that, both in the initiation of the recommendations and in the bringing forward of the final product, there is not an opportunity to show a committee's report to other than members of the committee in advance. If it is shown to the Opposition spokesman in advance, then that is an exception to the general rule that there should not be disclosure of a document until it is reported to the Senate. I think it should be taken at least one step further than that so that the chairmen of the committees affected by it - 
We are in trouble at the moment because we have the situation that the Opposition spokesman sees the report - 
I understand the honourable senator's point that it is not always shown to an Opposition spokesman. There is a general rule that it should be - 
If it happens only in regard to ministerial statements and does not happen in regard to committee reports, committee reports therefore will not receive the same publicity, or the public will not be fully aware of them, because of the fact that there is no knowledge in advance to enable people to make an informed comment on them. I think the whole matter should be examined to see how much further this ought to be taken so that committee reports do get proper emphasis when they are brought down and are not left for months before they are debated. 
-This report of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances was presented by  Senator Cavanagh,  the  Deputy Chairman  of the Committee, acting in my absence.  His  name has remained on the Notice Paper. As yet there has not been a response from the Government in respect to the matters set out in the report. I think there is some need for a response for reasons which I will indicate shortly to the Senate. This is a matter which covers three different items. First, it deals with two questions of confusion and uncertainty in the law which we believe, as a Committee, should be resolved by legislation in this country. Secondly, it deals with a number of matters which the Committee has considered over a period of some six months and shows the way in which the Committee has handled the various questions which have arisen in regard to that. Thirdly, it deals with a number of undertakings which Ministers have given and which only to some extent have been carried out. I will very briefly illustrate the matters which this report covers. I invite honourable senators to read the report thoroughly and to consider it. 
The first matter has worried me for some time. That is in connection with the law relating to the disallowance of a repealing instrument of a regulation or ordinance which has the effect of being disallowed by the Senate. The question arises as to what is the effect of that. What happens in regard to the law? That ordinance goes, but does it revive the previous ordinance which existed in regard to that matter or is there a vacuum to be left in the law? In a number of chapters in this report the Committee has made some attempt to express what is the law. It points out what was the common law rule which had the effect of reviving the repealed Act. Where an Act was repealed the previous Act would be revived. That was so held at common law. That has been modified by section 7 of the Acts Interpretation Act which provided in regard to an Act that it did not have the effect of reviving the repealed Act. 
This situation has become even more complex because in 1974 the Senate disallowed certain amendments to the Matrimonial Causes Act and litigation ensued. The court took the view that it was highly undesirable that there should be a void in regard to rights and made a different decision. So the result of all this is that there is quite considerable obscurity in regard to the law. lt is an important area of the law, particularly where it applies to regulations and ordinances that are disallowed. If a repealing regulation is itself disallowed, there is a further problem in regard to it. Without going into detail, I want to say that it is the opinion of the Committee that the obvious solution to the whole problem is for the Acts Interpretation Act to be amended so as to provide explicitly for the effect of an allowance of a repealing instrument. The Committee is strongly in favour of the common law rule of revival being applied to the disallowance of regulations. The Committee believes that this would avoid a vacuum in the law and would also strengthen the control which the Parliament has over delegated legislation. In conclusion, the Committee believes that the common law rule of revival should by statute be applied to the disallowance of all instruments. I hope that the Government will take action in this regard. Whatever decision is made, at least there should be no obscurity in regard to this area. 
The second matter of law which was raised in this report deals with the onus of proof in criminal cases. It is a matter which has arisen on a number of occasions before the Committee since 1975 when it examined the Australian Capital Territory Motor Traffic Ordinance. It arises where quite a bit of legislation has placed an onus of a burden of proof upon a defendant in prosecutions. I do not intend to go into the detail of this. There are complex questions of law where courts have found that the onus has been put on the defendant in many prosecutions to prove certain things, and it certainly is the view of the Committee that the law should be clear as to whatever may be the requirement of a person to establish a defence. Statutory defences, of course, are often made available to defendants. The general onus of proof should remain at all stages clearly on the prosecution, which has been the substantial position of the law for a long time. Without going into the details, considerations have been given to this matter in the United Kingdom where attempts have been made to clarify the position to ensure that defendants do not have placed upon them the burden of proving their innocence beyond reasonable doubt. In conclusion on this matter we say: 
It is the  belief of  the Committee that the persuasive burden should not bc upon the defendant in criminal matters, particularly in delegated legislation. The conclusion of the Committee is that this can best be achieved by the enactment of a statutory provision such as was recommended by the English Criminal Law Revision Committee. 
We also suggest that statutory provisions that impose the burden of proof upon defendants in criminal cases should be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional, and Legal Affairs for further consideration. We therefore believe that there should be legislation in the Commonwealth at an early date to clarify the difficulties which have arisen under various parts of our legislation, lt would be easier to have a general Act which makes quite clear where the onus lies rather than to try to alter the various regulations which litter our records; alternatively, all could be individually clarified. To pass a law which makes the position clear is, I think, an urgent necessity. 
The second part of the report refers to a series of regulations which were considered by the Committee over a period of six months. I do not propose to go into those. In each case they are briefly described in the report. We hope that the Senate is satisfied that the Committee has discharged its onus and obligation to the Senate in pressing Ministers for alterations. With the very considerable co-operation of Ministers I think that we have managed to obtain amendments to quite a number of regulations in which there were difficulties coming within the obligations of the Committee. 
I think I must say something further about the third matter raised in the report because it is a long standing problem. I refer to outstanding undertakings by Ministers which have not been honoured. It will be recalled by the Senate that early this year the Senate passed the following resolution: 
That the Senate take note of the statement, 
That was the statement in respect of ministerial undertakings which have not been honoured-  and note with concern the failure of some Ministers and departments promptly to carry out undertakings given to the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances to amend unsatisfactory legislation, as recorded in the Sixtysecond Report of the Committee. 
The Committee then reported on a number of regulations. I refer to page 14 of the report. I will merely restate the position in regard to the regulations that are covered in this June report. In regard to the position of Postal services regulations it states: 
The responsible Minister has now agreed not to await the reports of those bodies and to proceed with the promised amendments. 
I am afraid that that has not yet been done and that position is quite unchanged. Likewise with regulations under the Customs Act, a matter which was being considered by the Administrative Review Council. Now, in October, that position is still unchanged. Amendments to the Australian Capital Territory Consumer Affairs Ordinance were proposed by the Minister. The Committee has seen the draft of the amendments. The matter is continuing. It does appear that the amendments will be made. The final matter is the Australian Capital Territory Sale of Motor Vehicles Ordinance, referred to on page 1 5 of the report. The report states: 
. the . . . Minister has assured the Committee that the provisions in question are not being used. 
There was to be a review of the ordinance but it had not been completed. This position remains unchanged. In the report we refer to further undertakings that were given since the Sixtysecond Report of the Committee under which the criticism was originally made. Four undertakings are referred to. The alteration of the Historic Shipwrecks Regulations has been carried out. Likewise alterations have been carried out to the Student Assistance Regulations. Alterations have been made to the Australian Capital Territory Child Welfare Ordinance, one of our most recent inquiries. The undertaking in respect of the Dried Fruits Export Control (Licences) Regulation has not yet been attended to. One can see that there has been an improvement in the speed in carrying out undertakings that have been given since the Committee reported in rather sharp terms about this matter. A number of matters still remain to be cleared up. They are the matters which are covered by this report. We hope that in the areas where legislation is required the Government will make a statement at an early stage. The six-month period in which it undertook to give answers is fast drawing to a close. We hope that at an early date there is action by the Government on this matter. 
-Pursuant to the sessional order relating to the withdrawal of notices of motion for disallowance, I give notice that it is my intention, on the next day of sitting, at the placing of business, to withdraw Business of the Senate Notice of Motion No. 1 , standing in my name for seven sitting days hence, relating to the Australian Capital Territory Fuels Control Ordinance. 
I draw to the attention of the Minister for Science and the Environment a report in the  Bulletin  of 2 October relating to Taiwanese fishing poachers alleged to be operating on the Great Barrier Reef. Is the Minister aware of this report, which claims that the Taiwanese poachers are reaping a fortune from the flesh of the giant clam and leaving a trail of destruction in their wake? Is the Minister also aware of the claim that this plunder, which could result in the destruction of the reef, continues unabated with the Federal Government offering only token resistance? Will the Minister comment on this report and, in doing so, inform the Senate what penalties the Government has at its disposal to deal with poachers and whether they are presently being enforced? Does the Minister agree that in the interests of both Australian and world heritage any activity which may damage in any way the Great Barrier Reef should not be allowed? If so, will he assure the Senate that a full investigation will be made into the alleged activities of the Taiwanese poachers and that the Government will take whatever action is necessary to prevent them from continuing their operations? 
I rise particularly to speak on the States Grants (Roads) Amendment Bill, to express my reservations about the principal Act, and to support the views which my colleague from Victoria,  Senator Hamer,  has expressed today. I want first to turn to what I think was an interesting diversion in this debate by  Senator Georges,  who suggested that somehow the determining factor of the amounts of moneys that ought to be allocated for roads would be those funds which were collected from the sale of fuel. The honourable senator had some idea that that was one way of measuring what is the appropriate amount to be spent, taking into account all the priorities which the Commonwealth and the States have. I suggest that that is nonsense, quite apart from the fact that fuel and the moneys recovered from taxes on fuel are not necessarily connected in any way with roads. Of course, it includes transport by sea and matters which do not concern the use of roads. Even if that were so, it would be a nonsensical argument. One would expect  Senator Georges  then to enunciate that all the money that is recovered from taxation on incomes should be spent on taxpayers only, with nothing to be spent on people such as widows, orphans and deserted wives; that it should be spent only on those who actually pay the tax. One could go on with the addictive products about which the honourable senator spoke. He seemed to say that money which is paid in tax on liquor should be spent only in repairing the damage that is done to people who consume liquor. I see that the Minister at the table,  Senator Chaney,  is nodding his head. 
As my colleague,  Senator Hamer,  has said, he may be going to sleep. In view of his nodding his head to that argument, we would hope that that is so. Seeing the Minister at the table reminds me of the fact that this Bill is one that follows legislation such as the 
States Grants Act, under the Whitlam Government, which  Senator Chaney  tackled in the full flush of his career as a backbencher in this Parliament in 1974. He and  Senator Baume,  who has been here this afternoon,  Senator Maunsell, Senator Sim  and I all made a fairly valiant onslaught on certain provisions of that Bill in 1974. We were able to achieve some success and we were able to improve some of the pennypinching restrictions which were imposed on States and State departments at that time. 
As the honourable senator says, that was a good Parliament. Even though I recognise his vested interests, I agree with him that it was a good Parliament. It was a vintage period. Nonetheless, we could achieve only a certain amount. One cannot make a silk purse out of a sow's ear and we were not able to change this Bill which, of course, ran roughshod over federalism and which unfortunately has been continued to a major degree by the 1977 Act. The Bill with which the Senate is involved today involves the provision of $38m in Commonwealth grants. That is desirable and useful; nonetheless, it is the major Bill which is the subject of the complaint which  Senator Hamer,  backed by  Senator Rocher,  mentioned today and which complaint I, as a senator from Victoria, certainly support. I noted that in the course of  Senator Hamer's  speech he mentioned the important fact that the whole approach of the principal Act is contrary to the fundamental approach of the Liberal Party to federalism. He said that it is very much Labor socialist centralist legislation. It was at that stage that  Senator Mulvihill  said: 'That is good'.  Senator Mulvihill  is a conspicuously honest member of this chamber and of the Labor Party, and what he was telling us was what he honestly believes is the position. I have no doubt that in their hearts most Labor senators think so too. They are satisfied with that type of socialist centralist legislation. 
I beg your pardon? 
-No. I thought that the honourable senator was talking about red wine when he said 'full of Reds'. I do not think our Cabinet is socialist at all. Our Cabinet has not moved fast enough, and perhaps as back benchers we have not stressed sufficiently the deficiencies. In 1977, when this Act came into existence, perhaps the federalism policy was not sufficiently appreciated in its ramifications and was not put forward logically.  Senator Hamer  described what had happened in the years following in Victoria, where even the recommendations of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads have not been carried forward but something different has been done. So it is not as though some superior knowledge-- 
In all States, as  Senator Rocher  has pointed out. We have seen, therefore, that it is not a matter of superior overall national knowledge. The people who are experts had a different idea, and their advice arid views have not been followed. Like other honourable senators, I trust that the Government will have a hard look at this matter in the next year. I trust that the State governments, which have been so affected by this, will make their pressure felt, and that we can look forward to a main Bill next year which will carry out the real principles of federalism, a Bill which is adequate to meet the challenge. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer to the Minister's statement of 13 September 1979 announcing the Commonwealth Government's decision to abolish priority of Crown debts in liquidations and bankruptcies, with the exception of the major area of pay-as-you-earn and withholding tax claims. Was that decision not dependent on successful negotiations with the States to secure the abolition of State government priorities so that the benefit would accrue to ordinary creditors? Will the Minister confirm that the Victorian 
Government has now written refusing to agree to the abolition of State priorities because of the Commonwealth Government's retention of priorities for PA YE and withholding tax claims? Has the State therefore vetoed the inclusion of this reform in the proposed national companies legislation? In view of these circumstances and the fact that practically all the evidence before the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on this subject, with the striking exception of that of the Commissioner of Taxation and the Department of Finance, favoured total abolition of such priorities, will the Government now reconsider its position? 
-Will the AttorneyGeneral tell the Senate whether he has received from Amnesty International, the United Nations Associations, civil liberties organisations and other bodies submissions in connection with the Human Rights Commission Bill and the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill which have not yet been debated in the Senate? If so, is he prepared to make those submissions available to members of the Senate so that they will be better informed about those matters before the debate resumes in the Senate? 
-I seek leave to make a statement concerning Business of the Senate Notice of Motion No. I standing in my name for six sitting days hence. 
Leave granted. 
This notice of motion relates to the Australian Capital Territory Fuels Control Ordinance 1979, and was given as a result of the deliberations of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. The notice was given on the last available day so as to preserve the Committee's position in case it should wish to recommend disallowance of the Ordinance. At that stage the Committee had not received a response from the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  to a number of matters which the Committee had raised. The Ordinance creates a Controller of Fuels, provides for the appointment of inspectors, and confers special powers on those officers to deal with shortages of fuel such as occurred last June. The Committee was concerned with provisions which allowed the Controller of Fuels to delegate his powers to any person without limitation as to the class of persons to whom the delegation could be made, the service of notices by publication in a newspaper instead of the usual method of personal service, and wide powers of entry and search of premises, even in the absence of a declaration under the Ordinance that an emergency exists in relation to fuel supplies. The Committee was also concerned that there was no provision to ensure that the compulsory gathering of information under the Ordinance would not be used for purposes other than purposes of the Ordinance. 
The Committee has now received a very satisfactory response from the Minister for the Capital Territory in relation to the matters raised by it. This response was actually sent by the Minister before the time for giving notice had expired, but unfortunately I did not receive the Minister's letter until after that time. The Minister has indicated that the Ordinance was made quickly in response to the serious fuel shortages in June and that there are defects in it which will be corrected. The Minister has agreed to restrict the delegation of the powers of the Controller of Fuels, to provide for personal service of notices, and to ensure that the powers of entry and search can be exercised only at reasonable hours during the period when a declaration of emergency is in force. The Minister has also agreed with the suggestion of the Committee that there be inserted in the ordinance a provision to the effect that information gained under the Ordinance may not be used in any prosecution except a prosecution under the Ordinance. The Committee considers that such a provision is highly desirable in all legislation which confers compulsory information-gathering powers upon specialist officers. 
In view of the Minister's undertakings, the Committee has agreed to take no further action in regard to this matter. The Minister has requested that the promised amendments of the Ordinance be postponed until the Australian Capital Territory House of Assembly and his Department have also had an opportunity of reviewing the Ordinance, and the Committee has agreed to this. On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank the Minister for his very cooperative and helpful approach to this matter. Pursuant to notices of intention given yesterday, I now withdraw Business of the Senate Notice of Motion No. 1 standing in my name for six sitting days hence. 
-I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport to an  Age  article of 10 September which alleges that there are virtually no government controls over home-made aeroplanes, the only regulations being that they do not fly above 300 feet, that they keep away from buildings and stay over private property. I ask: Is it correct that these aircraft do not even require certificates of airworthiness or their pilots a licence because their operation is classified as an air sport? Does the Government agree that the present controls are grossly inadequate? Is it likely that some of the 10 victims of the series of sports aviation plane crashes in the past two years may have been saved if stricter controls had been enforced? Will the Minister assure the Senate that a full investigation will be made into ways of increasing the air safety, maintenance and flight training regulations for home-made aircraft? 
-The Conciliation and Arbitration Bill is a very important Bill and a very contentious Bill. I think it is one to which all members of this chamber must give serious consideration. We must listen to the arguments and make up our minds about the things which have been said. I must say that I approach this particular subject knowing that I have not had a very great experience in the industrial relations area. When I was in practice as a lawyer I did not do very much at all in this field, and in the Parliament I would not say that I have become very familiar with the very complex legislation in this area. Nevertheless, I think it is our duty to try to get on top of this matter, particularly when we have before us legislation of this nature. 
We have a position where this is a very important subject in the community. We live in a divided community where there is a great deal of feeling on the subject of strikes and losses. Our export markets at the moment are prejudiced by the inability to get goods away from this country and there is a great deal of feeling which arises, a great deal of feeling that we may not recover our economic position unless we can obtain a better industrial situation than we have at the present. We have a situation in which there are very considerable number of strikes taking place. I, for one, do not suggest that they in any way can be put down as the fault of one or other side in the industrial scene. 
I have here a statement from the Australian Bureau of Statistics setting out the statistics concerning strikes in this community since 1974. I have shown this document to the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  and to the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt).  I seek leave to incorporate the document in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="082232197910181_73_0.jpg"></graphic>

It is interesting to note, from the statistics, that between 1974 and 1978 there has been a considerable reduction in the loss of wages from strikes and the number of workers involved- a considerable reduction. The figure for 1974 for loss of wages was $128m. In 1977 the figure was $59m and by 1978 that figure had gone to $78m. So it stands at about two-thirds of the loss incurred in 1974. At the same time, and very significantly, the number of workings days lost has declined from 6,292,000 to 2,130,000- almost one-third. I think there are some significant features about that. We know that at the present time, in the course of strikes, there is use of industrial muscle which is probably more developed than it was before, and that there are people in key positions who strike. This has caused a change in the position so that a few people can cause a great deal of loss to members of the community. I believe that strikes by people who are strategically placed has caused all governments to be concerned. 
-Yes. The Latrobe Valley was a matter of concern a couple of years ago. We must look at our laws to ensure that they are adequate in the light of changed situations. I am very doubtful as to whether laws in themselves can cure industrial trouble. I agree with what has been said today, that there is a psychological aspect involved and it is a matter where merely changing the laws does not necessarily cure the problem. There is a great danger in the confrontation which occurs when there is legislation so hotly contested and so vigorously supported as this legislation is, and one has to make up one's mind whether or not it is worth while changing the laws to obtain the result. 
I think it is significant, in this context, to read what was said recently by an expert in this area, Professor Edward J. Sykes, a lecturer in industrial law at the Queensland University. This was reported in the  Courier-Mail  of 19 September 1979. Professor Sykes was referring to the Queensland Government's Essential Services Bill, a rather drastic Bill. Professor Sykes states: 
Concerning the Queensland Government's Essential Services Bill, some 25 years experience and research in considering problems of industrial relations and industrial law have convinced me that legislation of this 'strong arm' variety is almost inevitably bound to fail. 
He went on to say: 
Either it becomes a mere 'huff and puff threat which is not implemented or it is implemented but fails because of misunderstanding of industrial realities. 
I think we must watch that, and I think the people in Queensland ought to be watching that very carefully in view of the very drastic nature of that legislation. Professor Sykes also had this to say. and I think it is very relevant to this situation: 
Admittedly union powers when exercised as they frequently are, in an arrogant way, are anti-social, yet severe repressive measures can succeed only if some very wily and wellthought out initial preparation of the ground is first resorted to. 
You will see that I conclude in my speech that I am not altogether happy about some aspects of this legislation and I am not altogether certain that it has been all that well thought out. Some of it, I think, is necessary. Other parts of it, I think, are more dubious. While I am speaking of the people who have written on this subject, I would like to refer to the Alfred Deakin Lecture this year, delivered by the  Hon.  Tony Street on the subject of 'Industrial relations: Class Conflict or Common Goals'. There are a number of arguments in it which I certainly support.  Mr Tony  Street spoke of 'conflict or consensus'. He spoke of those people who consider that industrial relations are just class conflict in an institutional form. He pointed out that the majority of people in this country do not accept that view. I believe that that is true. He pointed out that there are people who hold the view that there should be no form of sanction in industrial laws. He does not accept that, and nor do I. He set out reasons why that argument is fallacious. He then turned to those who think the law is too weak to be of any real use and who think it merely legitimises wage increases and better working conditions. I think that what appears on page 16 of his printed speech is interesting and important. It states: 
The contention which follows is that what is needed is a battery of legislation to abolish strike action, so that when unions have a case to put they will be forced to go to the appropriate tribunal and accept its judgments. This argument neglects two basic principles of industrial relations. 
First, we live in a democracy and cannot force people to work if they refuse to. Therefore, the Government can try to persuade or influence people to go back to work but we cannot, in the ultimate, force them to do so. 
There is also an implicit assumption contained in the argument that no individual has a legitimate right to strike or refuse to work. But for example, if people have a genuine, informed belief that their lives or health and that of their fellow workers are being unnecessarily endangered by substandard procedures or conditions, they are justified in refusing to work. 
Another problem with the argument for legislating to ban strikes is that it ignores the realities of industrial relations. The experience of the 1920s should have been sufficient to demonstrate the shortcomings of industrial legislation. While industrial relations legislation can facilitate and encourage a better climate it can never be the answer to all our problems. 
I support those arguments very strongly. This Bill does not forbid strikes or anything like that, but I think the argument and the philosophy behind that statement is one that we should support. I regret that, to some extent, this Bill does not follow sufficiently the line of that argument. 
I mentioned what Professor Sykes said about the initial preparation of the ground for the legislation. I feel that the ground prepared for this Bill was not altogether satisfactory. I know that there has been a lot of discussion in this chamber about the National Labour Consultative Council and the fact that union representatives were not at one of its meetings. I am not satisfied with the fact that they were not notified later of the contents of the Bill. I believe there has been too much secrecy in the course of preparation of legislation such as this. I think that secrecy is counter productive. I believe that, while the union leaders were not there- and it can be pointed out that they brought on their own heads a great deal of trouble by not being present and not discussing items- that was so well known and the Government might have made available to them the contents of this Bill at an earlier stage. 
The fact that conciliation commissioners were not consulted has lead to a reaction from them. I think that that likewise is unfortunate. They are the people who are constantly engaged in the business of conciliation and arbitration and they could have contributed quite usefully to the formation of a Bill like this. I do not refer particularly to  Mr Justice  Staples. I think that he too has certain arguments which are worthy of consideration and which are not displaced by his background or his past membership of political parties and so forth. To my mind, if one looked around at all kinds of people one would find strangeness of political views in their youth. I would not like my rather conservative early-day views to be quoted against me now. I think we ought to try to divorce the arguments from the personalities and not try to argue ad hominem 
I believe that there ought to have been a better look into the constitutional question. At the time this Bill was under consideration the Law and Government Committee of the Government parties was in operation. The  Chairman  was overseas and I was its Acting  Chairman.  I knew nothing, nor did the Committee, of this Bill until it was disclosed to us through our Party. I made my comments then and have developed my views since then. I think it is unfortunate that when there are a number of lawyers in political parties who have views and would be very prepared to look at these matters they are not used in the consideration and development of such Bills. What I am saying is that there ought to be a more open legislative process, particularly in an area which is so delicate and difficult such as industrial relations. 
I want to refer now to specific parts of the Bill. There has been a lot of argument about the consultative process, which is to be about five clauses in the Bill. They are proposed sections 2A, 73, 78, 84 and 88AC, all of which are in this same form whereby it is required that the conciliation commissioner shall consult with the deputy president in relation to a decision that the commissioner is to give. I think that there is merit in what has been said; that this proposal is mainly to facilitate compliance with guidelines or principles laid down by a Full Bench of the Commission; that there ought to be uniformity; that someone should not lead the way in one area and cause all the other unions to follow suit; that it is better that uniformity can be pursued. I do not find in any way convincing the argument pressed quite considerably, particularly in the debate on this matter in the House of Representatives, that somehow the requirement for consulting is a requirement whereby a decision really is being made by the Deputy President instead. One only has to look at the Oxford English dictionary to find that the word 'consult' means 'To take counsel, to seek information or advice from '. There is nothing of the nature of making a decision. I think that is important, particularly in respect to the constitutional aspects of these clauses which have been challenged. One only has to remember other recent legislation. For example, in the case of the Australian Security and Intelligence Organization Bill, the Government has agreed to consult with the Leader of the Opposition. Nobody suggested or imagined that that meant that the Leader of the Opposition was to make the decision or have any real part in forcing a decision upon the Government. Likewise, of course, in respect to the Human Rights Commission Bill. That Bill has not yet been debated by us but it contains a provision that the States should be consulted before extending the range of options open to the Human Rights Commission. Likewise again, there is no provision that the States would make the decision. I think this amendment is the provision which has rather confused some members of the Opposition in both chambers. In fact, it is not a decision- ma king process. 
At the same time I do think that one could read into the provision a requirement that there must be some serious consideration given. It is not a matter of writing a letter and saying: 'I am going to do so and so, whatever you might do', and then doing it. There has to be formal and serious concern given to the advice of the particular  Deputy President  to whom the Commissioner is responsible.  Mr M.  Young said in the House of Representatives that 'he who decides must also hear'. He took that as the basis of the law, suggesting that that would invalidate this part of the legislation. To my mind that view is not soundly based. 
I notice also that reference has been made to a 1 930 case, that of the Australian Railways Union against the Victorian Railway Commissioners. In that case the High Court of Australia held invalid provisions which allowed conciliation committees comprising persons who were not members of the Court of Conciliation and Arbitration, as it was then called, to make decisions without hearing argument. The three justices of the High Court said: 
A law which enables a body of persons to settle a dispute by issuing a decree arrived at by discussion amongst themselves without any hearing or determination between the disputants is, in our opinion, not a law with respect to conciliation and arbitration for the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes and is not authorised by section 51 (xxxv) of the Constitution. 
That, of course, is a law where persons are entitled to settle, to make decisions. It cannot be suggested here that the  deputy president  has the power to make the decision, to settle something. He is in a position to advise. If one turns from what one would say is the very dubious constitutional objection which has been raised to the problem of the actual operation of this provision, one will be concerned with the fact that there are objections from commissioners. There are obviously objections which  Sir John  Moore has brought forward and which concern members of the court. One can see that there are problems of the confidence and integrity of those who are making the decisions, in this case the commissioners, and a question of some doubt as to how the  deputy president  is to arrive at his decision. He will not, presumably, have heard the evidence. He cannot be expected to read all the judgments and all the evidence given before other commissioners who are hearing cases with regard to a number of different industries. 
-Yes, indeed I do. It is vague. I am saying now that it is very difficult to see how this can work, how it can operate. I put this not on the basis of any constitutional objection but on the basis that it does seem to lead to some lack of confidence in the commissioners. It also seems to me to suggest that the  deputy  presidents would not be in a position to make the decisions based on evidence, the evidence having been heard by a commissioner. Reference has been made at times to the situation of the Public Service Arbitrator. It is a different situation. If one reads the provisions of that legislation one will see that it is far removed from the position in this case. I do, therefore, say that I find this provision to be a very awkward provision. I hope that the Government will look again at and discuss with the officers of the court the problem which this one brings up. 
Some of the other provisions of the Bill, which I shall briefly refer to, are, I think, necessary. I am satisfied with the arguments which have been advanced for them. They are repairing defects in the Act. I refer to the power which the  President  will have to withdraw matters from a commissioner and the power in regard to standdowns being expedited. One can imagine the amount of loss which occurs and the need for a decision in this area. I think that the provisions regarding reference to the Full Bench, which is possible, and the conciliation stages have quite a bit of merit. As I say, I am no expert in this area, but I am satisfied with the arguments that have been raised. 
As to proposed new clause 25a, which says that no order shall be made allowing wages to be paid to people who are engaged in industrial action, I can well see the argument for that. I can well see the problem which arises although I believe that it has not arisen in very many cases. At present a member of the court is able to make such a decision for payment of lost wages. That can be one of the things that he does in the course of his settlement of an industrial dispute. However, I have doubts about whether this provision will hold up constitutionally. I am reminded of the fact- I think it was set out in the Amalgamated Engineering Union case of 1967- that the Parliament can pass laws that deal with procedural matters but not directing the methods by which the conciliation and arbitration function is carried out. I cannot see how this can be said to be in any way a procedural matter. It does limit the area in which the  deputy president  is able to make a decision if he thinks that is necessary, the circumstances being there and he being justified. That is being taken away from him. I must say that I would have doubts as to whether that would stand up to challenge in the High Court. 
We must remember in regard to this whole area that we have very limited powers insofar as the Constitution is concerned. Before dealing with the last matter, which I think is of the greatest significance, I would like to read something about the power as described by  Sir Robert  Garran in  Prosper the Commonwealth,  his autobiography. He was a great public servant, a great lawyer and a man who should be listened to with great respect. At page 1 74 of his book he says: 
The Commonwealth Parliament has power to make laws with respect to conciliation and arbitration for the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes extending beyond the limits of any one State. That is a shocking example of the way in which a subject matter should not be set out. The end, the purpose, is the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes; yet not every means for attaining that end is included in the power, but only the particular means of conciliation and arbitration. There may be other and perhaps better means for attaining this end- as, for instance, by legislative regulation creating a common rule for the industry; or by award of boards or shop committees, to enable the industry to regulate itself. But these means are not available to the Commonwealth Parliament. 
He goes on to say that the possibility of the power here being either too great or too smallone can go one way or the other. He says: 
I have always thought that the power is either too great or too small. Either it should have been restricted to a few precise matters such as standard wages and hours, or it should have been extended to the whole subject of industrial disputes, so that the Commonwealth Parliament would have had at its disposal a choice of all possible means of preventing or settling them. Or, better still, it should have been expressed positively to cover the whole purpose of keeping industral peace. As it is, the Parliament can do nothing of itself to preserve the atmosphere of peace, but can only create tribunals of pacifiers; and these can generally do nothing, but wait till the parties are in dispute and the dispute has become inflated to a federal scale, and the two armies are drawn up in battle array in an atmosphere not at all conducive to friendly settlement. 
That, I believe, sets out pretty clearly the weakness of the power. It is a power which we should be careful not to use to create a great deal of heat in the community only to find that it falls to the ground. 
With that in mind, I turn to the last proposal in this Bill. I feel that it, likewise, is of dubious constitutional validity. I refer to the provision in regard to deregistration of unions. By contrast, I will read what was said in the House of Representatives by the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  with whom, unfortunately I cannot agree on this occasion. He said: 
If the Minister decides that an issue affecting the health, safety and welfare of the community is of such importance that deregistration action should be taken, he must make application to the Full Bench and he has to justify his position in a Full Bench hearing. It is only then, on the recommendation of the Full Bench, that the deregistration proceedings can continue. 
In that statement, to my mind, there are two quite mistaken ideas. It is not that the Minister has to justify his position before the Full Bench. 
All he has to do is seek a declaration from the Full Bench, fit in with the categories, and then it makes a judgment. It is not on the recommendation of the Full Bench that deregistation proceedings continue. Having obtained that order, the Executive is in a position to do most extraordinary things under this Bill. It will make decisions, which are not challengeable by the Full Bench. If one looks at the terms of this new deregistration provision- some reference has been made to it- one will find that there are some extraordinary things in what the Full Bench has to be satisfied of. Two or more members will have to be engaged in industrial action. It has been pointed out that that may be a small part of a union, perhaps a rebel part of a union organisation. 
That is possible, too. The second part which must be proved under proposed section 143A (b), is that: 
The industrial action has had, is having, or is likely to have, a substantial adverse effect on the safety, health or welfare of the community or of a part of the community. 
The fact that it must be a substantial effect is an important limitation. I think that is valuable. Safety, health and welfare are very vague terms, and a small part of the community may well be affected by some industrial action. Therefore, the welfare of that part of the community is affected. What happens? The Full Bench shall make the declaration. It is given the power in the Bill only to make declarations. Frankly, I doubt whether that is part of the power of a 'conciliation arbitration'. So, the first part of the proposition, to my mind, has very dubious chances of standing up as part of the settlement of a dispute by conciliation and arbitration. The Commission is to make a declaration about the conduct of certain people, with no reference to what happens thereafter. 
One then turns to the Executive power. That is a power to deregister a union at any time within six months. As has been pointed out today, that carries with it grave consequence. It also enables the Government to do other things in regard to the unions and their members. The Government can make an order which includes the power to suspend any of the rights, privileges or capacities of the organisation or all or any of its members. In other words, it may discriminate between members. 
I am criticising this provision. To my mind, it is too wide and unconstitutional. It allows an order to be made dealing with the rights of members. There is a limitation but under this Act or under any other Act, award or determination there is very wide power. 
It could include wages and I suppose it could include superannuation rights in certain circumstances. It is difficult to know how long or how short might be the exercise of that power. I cannot see how that power fits into conciliation or arbitration, bearing in mind what was said by  Sir Robert  Garran about constitutional limitations and the fact that it must be a power in respect of the settlement of disputes and not just a wide open power. I must say in regard to both elements of this power that I have the gravest doubts as to whether that criterion could be found. I know that apparently the Government has received respectable advice, of which I am not aware, which suggests that that can be done. I know also that there is power in the High Court to 'read down' powers, as happened in regard to the Family Law Act, so that they fit within the constitutional framework and so that they can operate without defeating the law. I think that the powers would have to be cut down quite considerably if the courts were to uphold this particular law. 
The last thing I want to point out about this provision is that although it empowers the Government to make orders under clause 1 6 of the Bill, those orders are in no way subject to disallowance in this Parliament. They are to be gazetted. We know the usual provision under the Acts Interpretation Act whereby regulations are made and are subject to scrutiny and possible disallowance in either chamber of Parliament, there is no power whatsoever do disallow in this case. It is most unfortunate that powers are given to the Executive government in this way to make very drastic orders which are not to be subject in any way to the control of the Houses of Parliament. 
I will vote for this Bill because the Government is of the opinion that it requires a number of these powers. A number of these powers are desirable but I think that the procedures under which the Bill has been presented are rather dubious and I think it is unfortunate that quite necessary repair powers are mixed with others which are of dubious constitutionality. Those matters may well have the effect of polarising the community more. I have always stoutly rejected the idea that we should try to polarise the community either in a political sense or in an industrial sense. I trust that my political views in this regard have been consistent. I fear that some of these provisions may have the effect of polarising opinion in this country. I hope that the Government will look again at some of those powers and, in the calmness of that consideration, will amend them, taking advice from those who are experienced in the jurisdiction, and will thereby not cause the type of offence and industrial trouble which might otherwise break out. I therefore will support the Bill but I do it with reservations in the hope that it may still be subject to some reconsideration. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. He will recall that recently I asked him a question concerning the voting by the Australian delegate to the International Whaling Commission on a proposal by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics for a permit to take 1,508 sperm whales in the 1979-80 season in the southern hemisphere. The Minister advised that our delegate had voted against that proposal. Is the Minister able to give the Senate any information as to the result of that vote? 
I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry to a recent submission to senators by the Food Importers Section of the Melbourne and Sydney chambers of commerce entitled: 'The Endless and Unwarranted Attacks on Cheese Imports'. I ask whether the Minister is aware of this submission which claims: 
It is unlikely that local manufacturers will bother with the specialised, costly and quantitatively restricted production of fancy' cheeses, opting rather for the assured, ready and lucrative market that can be satisfied with a technically simple, automated and less labour intensive end product. 
Will the Minister comment on this claim and in doing so inform the Senate why duties and quotas are still levied on imported European cheeses, even though cheddar has accounted for over 70 per cent of our total production since 1971 and non-cheddar cheeses are produced only in small quantities in Australia? Does the Minister agree that the Australian consumers' preference for imported varieties suggests that local producers' prospects for an increased market share depend wholly on their ability to produce cheeses which appeal to consumers? If so, will he investigate ways in which government assistance can be directed to stimulating and not protecting local cheese manufacturers? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Foreign Minister. I refer to a special service article appearing in the Melbourne  Herald  last evening in which it is alleged that the Indonesian Government, in opening the province of East Timor to international relief agencies, stressed that such agencies would not be able to count on any support from its armed forces and further quoted an Indonesian general as saying: 
Everyone expects us to play Santa Claus. They expect us to feed 600,000 people. We just can't do it. We don't have the resources. 
Will the Minister ask the Foreign Minister to remind the Indonesian Government that it chose, in 1975, to invade East Timor, since when it has been engaged in suppressing the legitimate aspirations of its native peoples through bloodshed and starvation, and that, in the eyes of decent people throughout the world, the Indonesian Government has the present urgent responsibility of feeding and bringing medical and other relief to the unfortunate inhabitants- whether they be 600,000 or 350,000 in number-and in providing transport to the remote areas to distribute such relief and humanitarian aid as is now being contributed by Australia and other countries? 
-On behalf of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, I present a report on the Committee 's reference on the Freedom of Information Bill 1978 and related aspects of the Archives Bill 1978, together with the transcript of evidence taken. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave- This is the most substantial and comprehensive report ever produced by the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee. Given the importance of the reference, it was inevitable that this should be so. The subject matter of freedom of information concerns not only the rights of individuals but the whole structure and machinery of modern Australian government. On 28 September 1978 the Senate resolved as follows: 
1 ) That the Freedom of Information Bill 1978 be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs for inquiry and report as soon as possible. 
That the Archives Bill 1978 be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs for inquiry and report as soon as possible, in so far as the Bill relates to issues common to, or related to, the inquiry into the Freedom of Information Bill 1978. 
That, subject to paragraph (2), the Archives Bill 1978 be referred to the Standing Committee on Education and the Arts for inquiry and report as soon as possible. 
In view of the terms of this resolution, the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs concentrated its Archives inquiry on Part V of the Archives Bill relating to Commonwealth records with particular emphasis on access to those records. The Standing Committee on Education and the Arts reported the results of its inquiry into other aspects of the Archives Bill to the Senate on 1 1 October 1 979. 1 will refer later to my Committee's recommendations on the Archives Bill. The Committee now presents its report which is unanimous in its 106 recommendations and its major findings. The complexity of the issues raised and the need to find solutions for a variety of problems has necessarily meant that the report has taken some considerable time to complete. 
The scale of public interest in this inquiry was indicated by the receipt of 168 written submissions from a wide range of government agencies and departments, public and private bodies and individuals. The evidence was supplemented at 16 public hearings involving 129 witnesses. In addition, the Committee held 36 private meetings in finalising its deliberations and its report. 
This report has, over the last year, occupied very large proportions of the time of Committee members not only in attending meetings but also in writing successive drafts of substantial portions of the report. I am confident that the Committee has fully considered every significant issue which arose in the course of our deliberations. Because of the length and comprehensiveness of the report, this statement will merely highlight its major recommendations. 
The need for an effective Freedom of Information Act was accepted by nearly all written submissions, with the striking exception of the Premier of Queensland. The view which the Committee formed, that the present Freedom of Information Bill and the access provisions of the Archives Bill are inadequate, has found overwhelming support from the public discussion. Evidence for this lies in the highly critical nature of the great majority of submissions we received and was borne out in the public hearings. One exception to this critical attitude towards the legislation was, not surprisingly, the view taken by a number of senior public servants who appeared to regard the proposed legislation as an unwelcome intrusion on administrative processes and are concerned at the resource effects of any expanded access to government information. 
In regard to implications for the present system of government, the Committee has examined and reports at length on the alleged detrimental effects of freedom of information on the Westminster system of government. The characteristics of that system, both in theory and in reality, are closely considered. The Committee has concluded that there is nothing intrinsic to that system that justifies sweeping limitations and exceptions to the basic principles of freedom of information such as are contained in the present Bill. Most aspects of the system, as they are currently operating, will not be significantly affected and at least one central and desirable feature of the Westminster system- individual ministerial responsibility- will, we believe, be positively enhanced by effective legislation. The present Bill is based on a fundamental reluctance to give courts and tribunals power to set aside executive decisions. However, since the authoritative High Court decision in Sankey v. Whitlam, it is apparent that much of this attitude has been based on a misconception of the existing powers of the courts. The width of exemptions and restrictions imposed under the Bill and the limitations imposed on the Administrative Appeals Tribunal need to be revised in the light of the 
High Court judgments. The judgments also reinforce the claim that the Tribunal should be empowered to review 'public interest' criteria in the Bill. The Bill should ensure, for the people, a maximum disclosure of information- the right to know- and this in turn will strengthen our system of government. 
The greatest area of public dissatisfaction with the Freedom of Information Bill is in the range and extent of exemptions enumerated in the Bill. Many of the exemptions are so broadly stated as to enable the withholding of many documents to which the public should have access, thereby significantly reducing the value of the guaranteed right of access. In addition, there is provision, in clause 5, for government agencies and categories of documents to be excluded by regulation from the operation of the legislation. There are also various provisions which may be used to prevent access to documents, on administrative grounds. As presently drafted, the Bill, with one limited exception, gives no access to documents which came into existence before the commencement of the legislation. The 1 5 chapters in part C of our report deal fully with these exemptions and exceptions to disclosure and explain our proposed amendments. In summary, the major recommendations relating to this area of the legislation are: 
The exemption of any agencies, parts of agencies or classes of documents should be achieved, not by regulation, but by listing them in a schedule to the Bill with subsequent changes requiring Parliamentary scrutiny and approval; 
Secrecy provisions, in other legislation, that are still to operate, should be clearly identified in a schedule to this Bill. The much criticised section 70 of the Commonwealth Crimes Act should be narrowed in its operation; 
The Bill, from its commencement, should provide individuals with a right of access to prior documents affecting themselves and there should be a phasing-in, over a period of years, of access to all other prior documents; 
With respect to security, defence and international relations, secrecy classifications should be clarified and made consistent with those that are applicable in other areas of government and there should be implemented a system of automatic declassification of documents. We also recommend that clause 23 (1) (b), which exempts information or matter communicated confidentially by another government to the Australian Government, should be deleted. Most significantly, we recommend that an applicant denied access to a document under clause 23 should have a right of appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, thereby removing the system of conclusive ministerial certificates now contained in the Bill; 
With respect to documents relating to Commonwealth-State relations, we recommend the inclusion of a separate test of public interest in determining whether they should be exempt, with a right of appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. We also recommend provision for rights of consultation and action by the States in relation to the proposed release, by the Commonwealth, of certain confidential information supplied by a State;  (0  One area of major criticism related to the system of conclusive certificates for Cabinet and Executive Council documents. We recommend their abolition in favour of a right of appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal to determine whether a document is in fact a Cabinet or Executive Council document, such appeal to be heard by a presidential member of the Tribunal acting alone. Moreover, the scope of this exemption should, in our view, not extend to documents of a purely factual nature; 
With regard to the much debated 'internal working documents' exemption, we recommend that the Administrative Appeals Tribunal be empowered to review any agency or ministerial decision that the disclosure of such a document is contrary to the public interest. This will ensure that the grounds of public interest applied do not remain static and open to administration by reference to fixed, limited and inappropriate criteria; 
The potentially very far reaching clause 29, dealing with the internal operations of agencies, should be narrowed in scope; 
The privacy exemption in clause 30 should be retained in its present form but the Bill should be amended to include a right of correction, by Australian citizens and permanent residents, of misleading or inaccurate personal information relating to them; 
We propose the deletion of three exemptions, namely clause 33 relating to the national economy, clause 34 dealing with breach of confidence and clause 36 relating to Crown privilege, the necessary protections they contain being sufficiently covered elsewhere and there being a danger of misuse of these provisions as they are presently drawn; 
Provision should be made, in the case of commercially sensitive information, for a method of consultation between the supplier and the agency from which disclosure is sought. Our proposal includes the opportunity, by way of a reverse freedom of information proceeding, to allow the supplier to apply to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal to prevent disclosure. 
The report gives detailed attention to the resource implications of the present legislation and describes the changes we recommend. We have urged that all agencies, and particularly the Public Service Board and Attorney-General's Department, give urgent attention to the planning and implementation of programs to train and develop staff in freedom of information matters. Such programs should not wait upon the passage of the BUI in its final form. Initially there was little concrete evidence available as to the resource implications of the legislation. Accordingly, we requested the Public Service Board to conduct a survey among agencies, on the basis of questions which we drafted, seeking to assess the probable effect on agency resources of the present Bill and of various alternatives. Although many uncertainties remain, a much clearer picture has emerged as a result of this survey and I am grateful to the Board for its co-operation. We are confident that, with some increases in total staffing and appropriate redeployment within agencies, the demands that will, realistically, emerge can be effectively met. We recognise also that, in bringing forward the Bill, the Government has implicitly accepted the responsibility for providing the necessary resources to make it work effectively. 
Resource implications were the major factor in the Committee's deliberations in relation to two difficult and controversial aspects of the Bill. One is the matter of retrospective application of the Bill to which the Committee has responded by phasing-in proposals. The other is the question of the time within which agencies must respond to requests. The Bill provides for a period of 60 days. The Committee, after thorough consideration of this question, and taking into account the replies given by agencies in the survey, has recommended that this 60 day period be reduced to 45 days two years after the legislation has come into operation and to 30 days four years after its operation commences. Further reductions, although desirable in principle, should await reviews of the operation of the legislation. 
It will be evident that the Committee envisages an enlarged role for the Administrative Appeals Tribunal under the Freedom of Information Act. Even more do we see an enlarged role for the Commonwealth Ombudsman, or a  deputy  specifically appointed for this purpose. The Ombudsman is now well established within the administrative process and agencies are already familiar with his methods of operation. We believe he should play an extended role as investigator, conciliator and monitor of the freedom of information legislation. In this regard, we recommend that section 6 (3) of the Ombudsman Act, which would preclude him from investigating a matter which is also the subject of an appeal to the Tribunal, should not apply in freedom of information matters. For the purposes of freedom of information, ministerial decisions should also be within his jurisdiction. We also propose that he should be empowered to act as counsel before the Tribunal on behalf of an applicant if he forms the opinion that his intervention is warranted and we set out the circumstances under which he should so act. In his role of monitoring the legislation, the Ombudsman should be empowered to advise agencies, at their request, as to their obligations under the legislation and, in his reports to Parliament, to offer suggestions for improvement and reform in relation to freedom of information in general. 
A number of our recommendations involve the widening of the jurisdiction of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal in freedom of information appeals. In addition, I refer briefly to the question of costs. We have recommended that where an applicant, having pursued his right of review through the Ombudsman, proceeds for review before the Tribunal without representation by the Ombudsman and substantially prevails in his case, the Tribunal should be empowered in its discretion to recommend to the Attorney-General that costs be awarded in the applicant's favour. We set out considerations which should influence the exercise of this discretion. 
Substantial sections of our report deal with the practical operation of freedom of information legislation and the facilities which make public participation possible. We recommend that the power to grant access should be delegated downwards as far as possible, whilst power to deny requests be confined to senior agency officers. We also stress the need for protection of the suppliers of information to government in appropriate cases. I draw attention to our various recommendations on access, on manuals and directories and the regular updating of them, on the availability of the internal law of agencies, on the need for informative freedom of information handbooks explaining rights and procedures, on language requirements and ready availability. I cannot overstress the facilities required and the co-operative efforts needed from those involved in administration, which efforts will be essential to the success of this great democratic enterprise. 
The question of charges and fees for access is another area of considerable concern in which we make a number of recommendations. The question is central to the effective use of the legislation and the principles should be set out in the legislation itself. Included in our recommendation are: 
charges for the search and retrieval of information should be fixed on a single set hourly rate basis, with provision for the agency to waive or reduce charges if it deems it appropriate in particular circumstances; 
there should be no charge for time spent examining material to determine whether access should be granted to it; 
fees charged should not vary between agencies or among different classes of applicants; 
the Bill should specifically confer upon Ministers and agencies the discretionary power to waive or reduce fees where an applicant is impecunious or where the provision of the information in question can be considered as primarily benefiting the general public. 
In part E of the report we deal, in detail, with administrative and parliamentary monitoring. It is sufficient to say here that we recommend a comprehensive system of monitoring by the Attorney-General 's Department and Public Service Board with provision for detailed reports to Parliament by individual agencies as well as a much more specific basis for the report by the Attorney-General than is spelt out in the Bill. We also recommend that the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee should undertake a review of the legislation's operation three years after it is first proclaimed. 
I turn finally to the Archives Bill. Put briefly, our major recommendations are: 
that the open access period should remain at 30 years; 
that no category of records should be excluded from the open access provisions of the Bill; and 
of the nine exemptions provided for under the Bill only those relating to defence, security and international relations; protecting the financial and property interests of the government; law enforcement; privacy; and commercial or financial information, should be retained- and most of those with some modification. 
We have applied the same basic principles as we have done in reference to similar provisions of the Freedom of Information Bill. We also recommend that conclusive ministerial certificates should be removed by making such certificates subject to review by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal in the same way, and to the same extent, as any other decision by the Australian Archives in classifying a document as exempt from public access. 
In conclusion, I wish to emphasise the unity of view among members of the Committee which this report demonstrates. The Government's initiative in the field of freedom of information is most welcome and is a worthwhile commencement point. Nevertheless we are fully convinced, following the submissions we have received and the evidence we have heard, that if our democratic system of government is to be properly responsive to the views of those whom we are elected to serve, the Government's legislation must be strengthened. It must be broadened to ensure that the public's right to know, formally acknowledged for the first time in this legislation, is indeed a reality. It is with this in mind that we have made the recommendations contained in our report and I commend them to the study of all honourable senators and, of course, to the Government. 
I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity to a media release of 22 October 1979 by  Mr Ian  Spicer, Executive Director of the Victorian Employers Federation. Is the Minister aware of this report and  Mr Spicer's  claim that Australia's industrial safety costs are now over $3,600m a year or about 40 times higher than the costs of industrial disputes and strikes? Will the Minister comment on these claims and, in doing so, inform the Senate whether the Government considers that this is an area which ought to receive much greater attention and remedial action? Is the Minister aware also of the conclusions of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs in 1975 following its investigation into national compensation, which were based on substantial evidence from a number of expert witnesses and which indicated that accident prevention could be influenced by economic incentives such as differential premiums which encourage positive safety programs? Does the Minister see important areas of initiative by the Government to deal with this serious problem? 
-I refer the Minister representing the Treasurer to a report in the  Australian  of 5 November 1 979 by  Mr Peter  Clyne, whose statements I should in no way be taken as vouching for, relating to the safety of a person's assets when he is facing a tax investigation. I ask the Minister whether he is aware of this report and in particular  Mr Clyne  's claim: 
Banks throughout Australia notify the Taxation Department, every month, of all accounts on which interest is paid and all accounts in which there is a credit balance above $5000. 
Is this statement correct? If so, will the Minister inform the Senate on what basis the banks do this? Will the Minister also inform the Senate what rights the Commissioner of Taxation has to acquire such information? 
-I would like to make some brief remarks about this appointment. I welcome it very much and likewise with  Senator Coleman,  who is a member of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Family Law Act, I have had the opportunity to appreciate the loss which we have had in the lack of studies in this area and the lack of co-ordination. I did not quite understand  Senator Coleman  in her fears that  Dr Edgar  and the Institute of Family Studies would not be doing the studies. It seems to me that is the very purpose of it. There is not only the studies it does itself, but also there is the co-ordination of other studies that are going on in the community. They are directed towards filling in the gaps and showing how we are going in this family law area. As  Senator Coleman  has said, we have lacked this facility very considerably in the last few years. As a Committee, looking at the Family Law Act and its operation, we cannot answer some questions. The fact is that the study material is not there. The collection of the results of legal research and the sociological impact of these matters are just not there for the moment to be commented on. Unquestionably this is something which ought to be done now. 
I have not had the pleasure of knowing  Dr Edgar,  but I have no doubt that, with the qualifications he appears to have, he is eminently suited for the task he faces. I think it is important that he move into this task well established with staff and with facilities. In fact, it should not be anything like a one-man band. It should not start off like, unfortunately, the Family Law Act which started off under-staffed. That has been the problem we have had for some years. We should not have this Institute without having proper staff. It should be properly staffed to enable the members to get down to the job and make up for some of the lost time. I welcome very much this appointment, which has been carried out with great care and great consideration. I look forward to a very successful start to the life of the Institute. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave-As  Senator Bonner  has made a personal explanation it may look rather curious if I do not do so since I was singled out for some particular treatment. I was not particularly concerned about it then or now. I have certainly never been directed by my Party on any occasion as to how I should vote. I will probably give some fair demonstration of that in respect of the next Bill we will proceed to and I think the past record will also show that. 
This morning I voted very much on my own conscience. I think I might even have suggested the way in which the matter may be handled. I am not sure about that; somebody else may have had the bright idea before me. But I was perfectly in agreement with what was done. It was very proper and sensible that it should be done that way. As for direction, no such direction was suggested at any time. 
I rise to speak on two Bills which I assure honourable senators are among the most important Bills which have been brought before this Parliament this year. I believe they deserve a great deal of consideration by this House and by the public. The Human Rights Commission Bill and the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill, which are connected pieces of legislation, have been in gestation for quite a long time. It is important that if they emerge from the Parliament they should do so in an effective and useful form. One would expect under those circumstances that every effort would have been made to ensure that as much information on the Bills as possible was available. I start my speech by expressing great surprise at the attitude which the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  and his office have adopted with regard to the submissions which have been made to them on the legislation by a number of respected and, I think, very important organisations- organisations such as Amnesty International, the United Nations Association of Australia and various others. 
In the past few weeks I have endeavoured to ensure that the contents of the representations which organisations have made, copies of some of which have been sent to me, were known to other honourable senators and honourable members. On 18 October I asked the AttorneyGeneral by question whether he would make copies of them available to honourable senators and honourable members. Only this morning I received from the Attorney-General an answer to my question, in which he said: 
I have received representations from many organisations including Amnesty International and the United Nations Association of Australia, concerning the two Bills. I do not think it is appropriate for me to release these representations. However, should these organisations wish their views to be known to members of the Senate it is open to them to make copies of their representations available to senators. 
It is very late for honourable senators to be expected to try to obtain copies. It has been suggested to me that those organisations might be embarrassed if their representations were made public. They put their representations forward desiring them to be considered by the Government and desiring them to be made public. Therefore, this afternoon I communicated with the organisations which I know made representations and some of them have made an attempt to communicate with the Attorney-General's office to indicate that they wish to have their representations known to honourable senators. I believe that honourable senators ought to have an opportunity to read them. I do know that, in all the representations of which I have received a copy, the organisations concerned universally have been critical, in different ways, of the legislation as it stands before us. As much as I am able to do so, I will make copies of such representations available to honourable senators and honourable members while this debate continues. 
I believe that there is a need for this type of legislation, and I support the creation of a 
Human Rights Commission in this country. At the same time, I do not find that I can support the second Bill which is before us. I think that we can make alterations to the Human Rights Commission Bill which will turn the proposed Commission into an organisation which can be effective, but I do not see any way in which we can deal with the other Bill, the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill, which has been criticised so vehemently by  Senator Evans  this afternoon. Whilst I might not agree with some of the nuances of his expressions and some of the harsher judgments he made, I believe that the criticisms of both Bills which already have been made have substantial justification. In the course of my speech I will mention one or two of  Senator Evans'  arguments. 
I believe that what is fundamental is that it is no good relying on common law to defend and promote civil rights, human rights, in this country- one might say in any country. Nor do the people in Great Britain, the originators of the common law, these days consider that the common law is adequate. Undoubtedly, for hundreds of years- more particularly, in the past 100 years- legislation has been needed to ensure the protection of human rights in the democratic countries. Action through the courts, through common law, has proved, time and time again, to be inadequate. Magna Carta, the basis of our liberties, was not something which the judges discovered. It was a matter of legislation; a matter on which the King and the barons got together. That was how it was founded. The Bill of Rights of 1688, which was a settlement from which a number of our rights and parliamentary liberties have come, was a matter of legislation and not a matter of common law. The world did not get rid of slavery by the common law. In fact the common law was very busy upholding slavery and the rights of slave owners. It was legislation which caused these things to be removed. Likewise, it is necessary that these international covenants should receive that type of consideration and be used to defend the human rights of the people. 
I refer to a speech entitled 'Human Rights: The Challenge for Law Reform' which was recently delivered by  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Kirby as the Turner memorial lecture. In it he spoke about the Australian debate on this subject and said: 
The Founding Fathers, when they settled the Australian Constitution, agreed by a small majority not to include a Bill of Rights, after the American model. Such 'rights' as were mentioned in the Constitution (section 92 apart) have received scant attention and circumscribed interpretation. 
The traditional explanation for this, in  Sir Owen  Dixon's words, is as follows: 
Civil liberties depend with us upon nothing more obligatory than tradition and upon nothing more inflexible than the principles of interpretation and the duty of courts to presume in favour of innocence and against the invasion of personal freedom under colour of authority. 
So there has not really been very much experience in Australia of human rights being protected by the courts. 
Of course, I say in response to  Senator Evans  that where I leave him is that I do not see a justification for a bill of rights. I am probably one of those lawyers of whom he was somewhat critical and who in 1973 investigated the need for a bill of rights and were not satisfied that there was such a need. If we had a Bill of rights we would be dependent again on the interpretation of judges. It is because of the failure of interpretations by judges that we have needed international conventions. I do not see a Bill of rights as a solution to our problem. Lord Justice Scarman said recently that the universal common law is in retreat. A great English judge is there coming to this conclusion. I think that is obvious from the entry of Great Britain into the European Economic Community, its adoption of European conventions and its allowing the situation in which the European courts can now apply legislation which can override the common law. 
One of the most authoritative things said about this was in an article entitled 'Human Rights, the Common Law and Australia's International Obligations' by Professor Alex Castles. In that article, he said: 
The common law has therefore not fared well as a course of basic principles and rules on the protection of rights and freedom. Even the common law tradition, which may influence judicial approaches towards favouring the liberty of the subject in the interpretation of statutes or constitutional provisions has not always been all that self-evident in the decisions of our courts . . . 
The constraints in judicial law making have been one cause, although not the only one, which have contributed to the need to establish new and more effective means, more in tune with our times, to deal with many aspects of justice being done and seeming to be done. The creation of the office of Ombudsman is an outstanding example of this. The number of cases where action has been required by Ombudsmen has exposed the relative ineffectiveness of our traditional means for dealing with human rights matters. 
One could say also that the whole development of our administrative law, by legislation, has made this very necessary. I say to those of my colleagues who have a feeling that somehow the cosy common law is sufficient to look after our rights and will do something about them that it has not been proved so. As a lawyer who believes in the tradition and desirability of the rule of law and the use of the courts, I say that it is quite false to rely upon the common law to defend human rights. 
As a result of this thinking, over many years we have seen the development of international covenants; and one of them is concerned basically with the first Bill that we are dealing with today. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948, of course, set out the series of rights which were then thought to be sound, which I think are still substantially sound today and which are basic to the rights of human beings. Since that time they have been spelt out in further covenants. First, the rights in the Economic, Social and Cultural International Covenant have been adopted by many countries; and we as a nation have signed and ratified that covenant. We might not have done a great deal about enforcing it. The other covenant which is central to the Bill is the Civil and Political Rights International Covenant which has been signed by us but which, as has been pointed out already, we have not yet ratified. I believe its ratification is something we ought to be doing. We ought to do it now. I see no reason why we should not do it. 
I propose to move an amendment which would specifically show approval of the Parliament for immediate ratification of it. I do not believe there is any need for us to get our laws in some sort of order before we ratify it. That apparently must be the view of the Government which talks about early ratification, because it is clear that we are not going to alter our laws substantially between now and December or whenever we ratify it. But we ought to ratify that covenant now. One reason we ought to ratify it is that we have been elected to the United Nations Human Rights Commission. We are serving a period of three years on that Commission and we, as a nation, should be setting an example for other nations. Even if our rights are in a reasonable condition, we, as a nation serving on that Commission, should go ahead and ratify this Covenant. 
We have given some examples of our desire to carry out various international covenants. Last year the Australian Government submitted to the World Conference to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination a national report which stated that action taken in this country to combat racial discrimination had been based on five principles. I will read out the first three: 
Racial discrimination should be made unlawful by specific legislation; 
Formal administrative machinery should be established for the investigation of racial discrimination on a systematic basis and to attempt to settle issues involving discrimination by conciliation; 
A comprehensive framework of legally enforceable remedies should be created to provide redress against racial discrimination where conciliation fails. 
The two other principles relate to programs of education and other special programs to promote that covenant. I do not believe that we have adequately enforced that racial discrimination covenant as yet. We have quite clearly not spent enough money in that area and quite clearly there is a great deal of difficulty for people to enforce it. They are forced themselves to go ahead with proceedings if they want to take action. Nonetheless, we have done something in that area. But we have yet to do anything very substantial in the general area of human rights covered by this Bill. 
As a final matter in regard to this aspect of our development and of the principles that we ought to be applying, may I quote from the Federal platform of the Liberal Party. It sets out our views on justice and law reform and then says that one of the matters that should be done to give effect to the principles is: 
Protect the civil liberties of the individual in society including the implementation of civil, political and social rights wherever applicable according to international conventions adopted by Australia, in fields of Commonwealth power or where the adoption of the convention has been approved by the States. 
As a Liberal senator, I am committed to the necessary activity in the enforcement of international covenants to which this country has put its signature. 
We have before us a proposal for a Human Rights Commission. In a sense it is a half-way house. I support the present proposals. I do not think the alternative which, for example,  Senator Evans  advocates, of a Bill of rights, is applicable in this country at this time. It may be that if we fail to set up a suitable Human Rights Commission, and if it is not effective, then we may have to consider adopting something like that course. We should try this commission approach first and endeavour to make it work.  Senator Evans  said that he could see no positive harm coming from having a Bill of rights. That seems to me to put it on a very low plane indeed. One needs to be very much more satisfied than that before one adopts that course. 
One remembers the enormous amount of disputation that occurred in 1973 when  Senator Murphy  brought down a Bill designed to create a Bill of rights. No one knows just how the courts would have interpreted parts of that Bill of rights, or what we would have had. The Americans have found their own difficulties in following such a course. They have found at times that human rights, civil rights, have been badly protected. The Supreme Court has made a ruling which presents a different idea altogether. Thus, one would be very much in the hands of the judges. Of more major importance- an aspect that  Senator Evans  tended to dismisswas that the States and others were extremely frightened by that concept of a Bill of rights. They could see their laws being overridden, their rights being taken away from them. Probably their fears were exaggerated, but I think they were real and resulted in a situation in which one could have a conflict between human rights as one principle and federalism as another. Those two principles should not be brought into conflict. I believe that nothing that I will do in the course of moving amendments to this Bill will in any way cause such a conflict. I will come to that later because there is abroad an idea that somehow I am going along that road with my amendments. The truth is, of course, that that is not so. 
I say let us take this course of establishing a Human Rights Commission, a body which will investigate and do many other things, and will tell us a lot more about human rights in this country. It may lead to something else. We must judge that after we have seen it in operation. I hope that we can make this an effective Bill. I realise that my colleague,  Senator Lewis,  proposes to move an amendment to insert a sunset clause. If we cannot create an effective measure I will certainly support his endeavours in that regard. That would at least ensure that in a few years we could look at the legislation again and would not be in the situation in which a government would, by inertia, just let matters go on and take no action because that would not be necessary. 
If my amendments are not adopted we will be passing something that will be a weak, sickly Bill. I would rather that that be done as a first step. At least we would learn whether the Bill can be effective. It is even possible that I could be wrong: that the Bill could be better than I now believe it to be. I am an optimist but I would rather see a commission of some weakness set up than nothing at all. I would also prefer something hanging over it. The approach of death, it is said, concentrates the mind wonderfully. If we could not get a really strong Bill it would concentrate the mind of government to have such a clause in the measure. 
In 1977 we had introduced a Bill that was not debated because the Parliament came to an end. but negotiations with the States have proceeded since that time. I believe that substantially they have failed. The States were encouraged to have members on such a Commission, to bring their laws within its ambit, but they have not been willing to do that. However, they have left some finger marks behind because the present legislation contains amendments which were not in the 1977 measure. Some of them are dangerous and need the close examination of the Senate. One recognises that the States have taken their bat and ball and gone home so far as this Bill is concerned, and they are not participating in this legislation. Doubtless the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  hopes that they may still participate. That is yet another reason for having an Act in operation. In that situation negotiations can continue. 
We must bear in mind that Article 50 of the International Covenant states that the Covenant applies to all parts of federal States, without limitation or exception; that they must be considered. We cannot escape our obligations, cannot derogate from the Covenant, by saying that we are just a federal State and are concerned with federal laws only. I do not believe the Bill could ever be adequate if if did not take consideration of State laws. 
I repeat that representations have been made on the basis of the 1977 Bill. A few of them have been accepted and the measure contains some improvements, such as provision for conciliation proceedings, the setting of educational objectives, and opportunities for involving State governments. Some of these have merit, so something has emerged from the public debate that took place on the 1977 Bill. However, the present discussions show that the Bill is indeed still weak. I refer to a comment that has been made by Amnesty International, an organisation which made representations concerning both the 1977 Bill and the 1979 Bill. The national organisation of Amnesty International recently sent a telegram to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  expressing its grave reservations about some aspects of the Bill. In more detail its New South Wales  president, Mr J.  S. Coombs, Q.C., wrote to me in these terms: 
It has long been a policy of Amnesty International to support the establishment of a Human Rights Commission in this country and to press for the ratification of the international covenant itself, but if the present Bill were passed unamended, the Government would lay itself open to a serious charge of hypocrisy. 
He proceeded to give a number of criticisms which in all cases are taken up by amendments that I intend to move. He defines the weaknesses of the Bill and illustrates the hypocrisy to which he refers. It is a serious charge but one to which we must lay ourselves open as senators if we do not consider carefully the representations that have been made. I have in mind the representations that have been made on the Bill by the Queensland Council of Civil Liberties, Amnesty International, the Australian Council of Social Service, the Australian Council of Churches, the Uniting Church, the senior and junior branches of the United Nations Association and Aboriginal organisations. In earlier days there was criticism by the Law Council and other legal bodiescriticism which I believe would be maintained today. Honourable senators should examine those criticisms because there exist serious weaknesses which we are in a position to repair. 
I turn now to the main weaknesses, as I see them, in the Bill. I have engaged somewhat in the public debate that has been prompted by this Bill in the last few weeks and have forwarded to all honourable senators, as well as to many other people, a critique of the Bills setting out the matters which I believe require amendment. It might save some time if I were to seek leave to incorporate that document in  Hansard.  It sets out a number of the views to which I have referred. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

CRITIQUE 
By  Senator Alan  Missen on the terms of the 1979 Human Rights Commission Bill and Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill (As introduced in the Senate on 25 September 1 979) 
Objectives of the legislation 
The Human Rights Commission Bill creates a Commission designed to 'protect and promote the observance of human rights throughout Australia within the limits of Commonwealth power'. It will investigate Commonwealth laws, and acts and practices under Commonwealth laws, and report on the extent to which they fail to comply with the human rights described in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights 1966 (which Australia has signed but not yet ratified). 
The Bill differs in some degree from the 1977 Human Rights Commission Bill (which lapsed on dissolution of the Parliament), particularly in its provisions for involving States and State authorities in the performance of the functions. It also incorporates a number of minor but useful amendments, some suggested in representations made on the 1977 Bill and others subsequently by Government Members and Senators. 
Unlike the Racial Discrimination Act 1975, the Bill does not formally approve ratification of the Covenant although the Government has expressed its desire for early ratification. 
The Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill is a complementary Bill which will transfer the functions, now performed by the Commissioner for Community Relations  (Dr 
Grassby) to the Human Rights Commission while preserving only the Commissioner's investigating and conciliatory powers. Those limited powers which he retains are to be performed thereafter under the 'directions' of the Commission. 
Clauses of the Human Rights Commission Bill ( 1979) 
Apart from minor or technical matters, the following provisions give cause for concern and I propose to seek amendment of them: 
The 'functions' of the Commission are severely limited. Under clause (9) (d) reporting an action needed to be taken by Australia to comply with the provisions of the Covenant (or other relevant international instrument) is to be performed only 'when requested by the Minister'. It should have power to present such reports on its own initiative and not be forced to await Ministerial instructions. 
More fundamentally, the function of examining enactments or inquiring into acts or practices applies only to Commonwealth laws (Clause 3). The Bill does not permit the Commission to investigate any breaches of human rights under State laws. As probably 95 per cent of breaches take place under State laws (which cover most areas of the criminal law, police, personal rights, et cetera), the Commission will be dealing with a mere fragment of the relevant laws, acts and practices covered by the Covenant. (N.B. Article SO of the Covenant states that it 'shall extend to all parts of federal States without any limitations or exceptions '). 
Clause 10 
Clause ( 10) (4) (f) empowers the Commission to decide not to hold an inquiry as a result of complaint if the complainant does not have a sufficient interest in the subject matters of the complaint'. It was pointed out by Amnesty International and other bodies making representations under the 1977 Bill (where this also appeared), that it should not be necessary to establish any 'sufficient interest' when a person or body is complaining of breaches of human rights. Whether the 'sufficient interest' is held to be financial or otherwise, the requirement is unnecessarily restrictive. 
Clause 1 1 
Clause 1 1 makes provision for 'the Minister' (presumably the Attorney-General) to make an arrangement with a State Minister (including Northern Territory) to perform Commonwealth functions or functions of the Commission relating to the promotion of the observance of human rights'. Clause 1 1 ( 1 ) (b) and (c) would accordingly enable the Minister to exclude entirely or by-pass the Commission (or the Commissioner for Community Relations) and allow State authorities to take over investigation of complaints or carry out its work. For example, the Minister could arrange for Aboriginal complaints in Queensland to be investigated solely by Queensland Government authorities and the Commission would be powerless to intervene. While this may not be the Government's intention, the power is clearly there and the Commission (and Commissioner) would be effectively excluded. It is a dangerous diminution of the powers of the Commission and Commissioner for Community Relations. 
Moreover, such 'arrangements' may contain 'such incidental or supplementary provisions' as the Federal and State Ministers 'think necessary' (11 (2)). They may be varied or revoked by the Ministers at will. They must be in writing and published in the 

 Gazette but are not subject to tabling or disallowance by any  Gazette  of the Commonwealth Parliament (as usually applies to regulations and other statutory instruments). It is a dangerously uncontrolled power. 
Clause 12 
Clause 12 enables the Commission to act informally and, quite properly, states that it is 'not bound by the rules of evidence'. However, as there is danger that some complainants or witnesses (especially employees) may suffer victimisation because they give evidence supporting a human rights complaint, some restricted power should be given to the Commission to enable the anonymity of such complainants or witnesses to be preserved in necessary cases. 
Clause IS 
Clause IS contains unique features (not included in the 1977 Bill) which bear directly on the freedom of information debate in Australia. It anticipates the final form of the Freedom of Information Bill 1978, which is presently being investigated by the Senate's Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee, which will soon report to the Senate. Clause IS (2) creates a system of conclusive certificates which the AttorneyGeneral may sign, denying the Commission access to documents on grounds of security, defence, international relations; which may 'prejudice relations' between Commonwealth and a State; which may disclose deliberations or decisions of Cabinet or a Cabinet Committee; or which may otherwise be privileged injudicial proceedings. The system of 'conclusive certificates' has been widely criticised in public evidence before the Senate Committee. 
Going further than this, Clause 15(3) and (4) create a further unprecedented restriction on the Commission in respect to documents that do not come under the categories described in Clause 15(2). In dealing with these other documents, the  Chairman  of the Commission is required to 'pay due regard to any reason ' specified by the Attorney-General in claiming that disclosure would be contrary to the public interest. A new breed of 'almost conclusive' certificates is being placed in the path of the Commission. 
Clause 34 
It is relevant, at this stage, to refer to Clause 34, a secrecy provision which was not to be found in the 1977 Bill. It was apparently inserted to 'enable the Commission to enter into effective working arrangements with State agencies '.It imposes prohibitions on past or present members or staff of the Commission from disclosing information relating to the affairs of another person, acquired in their office or employment by the Commission. Except when 'necessary to do so for the purpose of this Act' such information or documents cannot be divulged or produced to any court. It appears, therefore, that the results of Commission enquiries including admissions of breaches of Commonwealth laws will not be available for any subsequent prosecutions for such breaches- a grave restriction on the value of the inquiry to any public or private prosecution. 
Secrecy' clauses, in general, are at present being reconsidered by all Government Departments at the Government's direction to see whether they should be preserved or not when the Freedom of Information Act comes into operation: yet, here we are creating a new secrecy clause. 1 propose that Clause 15 (2) (3) and (4) and Clause 34 should be deleted from the Bill, at least until the final form of our laws on disclosure of government information is settled. 
Clause 16 (0 Enforcement of Human Rights. Clause 16 concludes the Commission's investigation of complaints by providing that it will report to the Minister, with recommendations, any Commonwealth enactment or any act or practice inconsistent or contrary to any human right. 
The Report would be tabled in Parliament within IS sitting days but thereafter the Commission's functions cease. 
This is the fundamental weakness of the Commission process. Publicity of complaints can achieve improvements, as the Ombudsman demonstrates, but action on reports to Parliament has, on many occasions, been delayed or found wanting. Moreover, the Ombudsman analogy is not a sound one. The Attorney-General, in his 2nd reading speech, asserts these reports, and the attendant publicity, will be its sanction as with the Ombudsman'. The Ombudsman works on Government Departments and they and their Ministers are certainly vulnerable to public opinion. But individuals who may breach human rights (an employer, a Union or a publican for example) may be determined on a course of discrimination and in no way susceptible to public or governmental pressure. Publicity is not enough. 
Contrast this Bill with the Racial Discrimination Act, which provides various offences which may be prosecuted to ensure compliance with the 'International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination', which we ratified in 1973. Under that Act, the Commissioner for Community Relations must first give a certificate that attempts at settlement have been tried, and then a private individual may prosecute and a Court can make the necessary orders. No such machinery exists under this Bill. Indeed, as I point out in paragraph (e) above, the Bill substantially inhibits the use of information obtained in an inquiry (Clause 34). When an individual therefore tries to prosecute for breach of a law, he may be worse off than if no Commission inquiry had taken place. 
It is interesting that, while this restriction is placed in the way of prosecutors, the Bill (rather differently from the 1977 Bill) now includes a provision (Clause IS (8) excusing a person from answering questions before the Commission 'that might incriminate him'. The balance seems to have swung sharply against the complainant who wants to prosecute a human rights violation. 
At the very least there should be provisions in the Bill requiring reports to be considered by appropriate Parliamentary Committees and /or prosecutions launched where breaches of law involving human rights are shown. If the Government will not prosecute, the right of an individual to prosecute for breach of human rights should be specifically affirmed. 
The Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill ( 1979) 
This accompanying Bill, which had no 1977 counterpart, is subject to considerable objection and, unless it is substantially amended, I will oppose its passage. 
The Racial Discrimination Act 197S was passed with the support of the ALP Government and the Liberal-Country 
Parties, then in Opposition, but it was only passed after substantial amendments were agreed on. It established a workable method of compliance with the International Convention, which Australia then ratified. It has operated, overall, with considerable success under  Dr A.  Grassby as Commissioner for Community Relations and has contributed to a better community. As one who supported the Act strongly during and since its passage, I am not willing to support any amendments that weaken its operation. 
The major objections to the present Bill, as I see them are: 
It places the Commissioner under the complete control of the Human Rights Commission without making him a member of that Commission. Clause 7 of the Human Rights Commission Bill provides for a Commission of 5 to 9 members. The Commissioner for Community Relations, who already has specific responsibilities in the area of racial discrimination, is not named as a Human Rights Commissioner and it is clear to me that he will not be appointed to such a position. He will be a mere employee or agent of the Commission. There is indeed a case for amalgamating the operations concerning racial discrimination with other human rights (as the Galbally Report recommends), but not by downgrading the existing working operations of the Racial Discrimination Act and debarring its Commissioner from the policy determinations of the Commission. 
All complaints will in future go to the Commission (Clause 6) and the Commissioner for Community Relations is to be confined to inquiring into alleged infringements and endeavouring to effect settlement of infringements. His existing functions of promoting an understanding and acceptance of, and compliance' with the Act, and developing research and educational programmes including 'promoting understanding, tolerance and friendship among racial and ethnic groups' are to be taken from him (Clauses 4 and S). The idea that such functions can be entirely separated is preposterous. It is interesting to note that under Clause 1 1 of the Bill, there is a transfer, from the Commissioner to the Commission, of the right to receive advice and recommendations from the Community Relations Council. Yet the Community Relations Council, which was to be established under the 197S Act and could have performed useful work, has not been set up at all. 
It is to be observed also that, even in his limited remaining functions, the Commissioner acts 'subject to the directions of the Human Rights Commission' (Clause 5). Note that this is not merely subject to general or overall policy directions but 'directions' in the broadest sense. At the same time, he has no right to take part in the determination of policies and has no equality of voice with other Commissioners. 
The Commissioner for Community Relations ceases to have any staff (Clause 12) and will be totally dependent, for staff, on the Commission. As I anticipate that the Commission's staff will be severely limited, particularly under existing staff ceilings, the work of the Commissioner for Community Relations in enforcing the Act must be expected to diminish. 
The Commissioner for Community Relations will no longer deliver an annual report to the Parliament (Clause 16) and will accordingly be dependent on any reference that the Commission makes to his activities in its own annual report 
Delegation of powers. Clause 13 gives the Commission the sweeping authority to delegate 'all or any' of the powers now to be exercised by it under the 
Racial Discrimination Act. At the same time, the Clause restricts the Commissioner for Community Relations from any delegation of his powers except to a member of the Commission 's staff or any person the Commission approves. Bearing in mind the possibility of racial discrimination occurring in remote areas of the country, the contrasting power of delegation is significant. 
It will be noted that the powers over racial discrimination now being transferred to the Commission are not 'toothless' but have been developed with limited facilities yet with overall success. On the other hand, the Commission's powers in all other human rights areas are to be severely restricted as I have demonstrated above. If the powers are to be so variable, then the case for amalgamation is accordingly weakened. 
Summary of Issues 
.  The case for establishing machinery to secure or encourage compliance with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights is strong, but the machinery must be such that it is not condemned as 'window dressing'. The Commission should have the powers and facilities to affect the purposes sought and be empowered to investigate the great majority of violations of human lights in this country. 
The Government is right to reject the arguments of those who would draw back from ratification of the Covenant and rely on existing common law remedies which have never satisfactorily covered the field of human rights in this country. The Commonwealth Government was committed, in its 1977 policy speech, when it said: 
We have protected individual rights and reformed outdated laws. The Ombudsman, and Administrative Appeals Tribunal protect basic civil liberties. We will establish a Human Rights Commission to expand that protection further and we will bring in freedon of information laws.' 
The Government's obligation is surely to create a Commission that is no less effective than had already been proposed under the 1977 Human Rights Commission Bill. 
The Government has rightly rejected the other option of establishing a Bill of Rights at this stage in our development. Either a Bill of Rights incorporated in the Constitution or as simple legislation would be difficult to achieve. The effect would be unknown and dependent on judges' interpretations which, as the U.S.A. has found, can be unpredictable. Such a Bill of Rights would face vehement State objections, as  Senator Murphy  found in 1973, if it endeavoured to change or override State laws. Moreover, the introduction of a Bill of Rights could encourage the use of the federalism argument as an excuse for non-compliance with human rights obligations. 
I believe Australia should ratify the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights now and there is no real impediment to that course. 
No action should be taken, either by reason of personal animosities or for other reasons, to weaken the operation of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975, which was an all-party endorsement by the Commonwealth Parliament of an International Convention to control racial discrimination. 
Alan Missen  Senator for  Victoria Telephone: 62 2521 2 October 1979 Commonwealth Parliament Offices, 400 Flinders Street, 
Melbourne. 
-I thank the Senate. I will trace briefly the major areas that I believe demand action if we are to be satisfied with the Bill. As  Senator Evans  has said already, the Bill contemplates no examination of State laws, Acts and practices. However, the amendment that the Opposition has moved is one that I cannot support, because it goes much further than I would wish to go. The honourable senator wants to bring State laws right into the ambit of what is a Federal commission. It seems to me that if we are going to have a Commission which looks into human rights and violations in Australia, it must be in a position to examine the various aspects of those laws. It has got to be able to look at State laws. I will give an example of this. Let us say one of the areas in which there is considerable worry about our compliance with the international covenant is the area of the laws of assembly and procession in this country. Of course, there ought to be examinations of those laws. We ought to be in a position where this new Commission can compare the laws that operate in different States. They are not all bad. It is not just in one State. The Commission ought to look at those laws and compare them with the existing Commonwealth laws and overseas laws. It should report to the Parliament on them and try to reach some agreement or find some preferable type and operation of those laws. Therefore, to be able to look into that seems to me to be one of the objects that obviously should be within the powers of this particular Commission. That does not happen under the Government's Bill. When one looks at the amendments which I propose to move, one sees that certainly it is only the power of inquiry into the laws that I am concerned to ensure that the Commission will have. Moreover, I tie that to relevance to other functions. But it should be relevant to the other functions which this particular Commission is carrying out. I want to make that very clear. I am not suggesting for one moment, nor do I think we ought to embark on or proceed into the areas where we try to either deal with State laws, or alter them. Maybe we could alter them under the terms of our external affairs power. I do not suggest that we pursue that course, nor that we do anything to take legal action against breaches in the States under the State laws. 
The amendments which I propose in regard to civil rights procedures and which I set out in detail, give teeth to this particular Bill. They are not those that suggest that the Commission should be dealing with State laws, State Acts and practices. One will see by the definition in the Bill that  the definition of 'acts and practices' is confined to federal laws. In this area one might say it is only a timid step into the area of enforcement. But it is one that is not there at the moment. I will come back to that in a moment, because the lack of any enforcement power is one of the great weaknesses of the Bill. 
In my statement I have drawn attention to the fact that there is a requirement that persons who make a complaint must have 'sufficient interest' in the subject matter of the complaint. The Amnesty organisation and other organisations have protested against this provision against this requirement which was in both the 1977 and 1979 Bills. Interest is generally understood by the lawyers as being something concerned with financial or property interest. Why should one, in dealing with human rights, have to show that interest? The mere existence of these respectable and responsible organisations and the fact that they want to make complaints, should be quite adequate. Any person who is prepared to go to the expense, trouble, risk and the unhappy experience of a great fight, will go ahead. Because he believes he should continue with his complaint should be sufficient and should not require the proof of sufficient 'interest'. I believe also that this Commission should have power to make reports on its own initiative, whether it is in regard to international documents we are examining, or whether it is in regard to complaints. I believe that its report should not depend upon its being asked to do this by the Attorney-General. The situation should be such that it can go ahead and give reports to the Parliament on its opinion as to the enforcement of international covenants. 

 Senator Evans has already referred to clause 1 1 which I regard as one of the most potentially dangerous clauses in the Bill. The by-passing of the Commission or the Commissioner of Community Relations is there on the face of the clause. No suggestion has been made that this clause will be amended. If, in fact, this clause means an agreement is made by some Commonwealth Minister of the future with a State Government, allowing it to take over some of the Commission's functions it can therefore by-pass the Commission altogether. If instead the Commission had to approve any such agreement, if it had to be laid before this Parliament so that we were in a position to disallow such an agreement, that would be a different matter. We must surely write into the Bill those provisions so that this bypassing cannot be done and the small powers which the Commission has at the moment, cannot be eaten away by a State which wants to do the investigation itself and to cut out the Commission from its area. 
It is necessary, in this Bill, to do something to protect the anonymity of people who complain and who find their positions have worsened. Therefore, they will not complain if the Commission can give them no protection. There is an area in this Bill in which was mentioned this week when we presented to this House a very substantial report on freedom of information, that has not yet been debated by us. We have provisions in this Bill which speak of conclusive certificates and which make provisions whereby documents will be able to be withheld from the Commission by the fiat of the Attorney-General and by his decision which is unexaminable by any court. These are matters which have been greatly criticised in the report to which I have referred. 
We have provisions in regard to secrecy. I believe that clause 34 is not only one that ought not to be preserved in that form or rather not be created in that form as a new secrecy provision but also it seems to me that there is a grave difficulty that arises for people who may want to take action, who have suffered a breach of some human right and who will find that evidence that is accumulated by the Commission will not be able to be used, because the officers of that Commission will not be able to give evidence before courts. Therefore people may be worse off than if there were no Commission at all. I say that the final and major weakness in the Human Rights Commission Bill is the fact that it stops at a report. A report comes into the Parliament and those of us, who have been here a few years, know that that often means very little action takes place. All the investigation has been done. It has been proved that there is a breach of human rights and there it stops. There are no teeth. It is no good stating: 'Well, the particular person who was concerned in this will take action immediately and will remedy the situation. ' Very often he will not. If people have some strong objection to some human right, if they victimise somebody, there is no reason to say that without some legal proceedings they will not do anything. I am afraid that is a weakness in the Bill. I hope to put forward a proposal to provide for individuals a right, particularly in Commonwealth matters, so that they will be able to take some action following on the report. At the present time there is nothing at all in the Bill. 
I turn now to the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill because that is a Bill which amalgamates the operations which have been effectively going on for a number of years under 

 Dr Grassby. The Bill will turn the operation into part of the works of the Human Rights Commission. The weaker Commission will accumulate the greater powers which, at the moment, the Racial Discrimination Commissioner has. As has been pointed out,  Dr Grassby  's work will be greatly emasculated by that. Quite recently we had the delivery of the fourth annual report of 1 979 by  Dr Grassby.  I regard it as a magnificent document. It is a record of dealings with nearly 1,000 complaints which have been made over the last year. There have been something like 3,000 to 4,000 complaints since he has been in operation. There is an enormous amount of work and he is under enormous pressure with very little staff, very often without a successful final outcome because he could not proceed with the complaint. 

 Dr Grassby and his staff deserve the credit and praise of this Parliament for the efforts they have made. For the $300,000 a year that it is costing this country to have that report alone is a gold mine, indicating areas where people have been disadvantaged. I regret to say that when that report came down the Minister of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs,  Mr MacKellar,  proceeded to attack  Dr Grassby  rather strongly on the program  AM.  On 10 October 1979 he expressed the view that there were many 'seeming inaccuracies' which gave an impression that it was not in accord with the facts. When honourable senators look at the matters he raised they will see that there were only two points he talked about. One matter was the Galbally report.  Mr Grassby  in his annual report said that it 'committed ' the Federal Government. Well it did not, because the Federal Government committed itself. This sort of semantic argument was one of the two matters which was criticised in the interview. 
The second matter related to Asian residents. It concerned complaints in a country town. There was a difference of view between  Mr Grassby  and the departmental officials as to whether they had been co-operative. I would not care if in that instance  Dr Grassby  was wrong. 
-Dr Grassby; he obtained an Italian award a few months ago. The fact is that criticisms such as that are unnecessary and they fail to recognise the enormous area of work which he has covered over the years. From my experience of seeing him at many ethnic functions, I can only say that his work is extremely good. I have never seen any cause for complaint. I have no doubt that he has made mistakes. I know of one or two instances where people have submitted complaints which are not related to racial matters. Perhaps they have got away with that, but that is not the point. The point is that he has managed to satisfy a tremendous need and to obtain a great deal of support from people because he, with his staff, has been fighting their battles effectively. 
There has been reference to the various consultative committees which he set up- there are 32 of them in all- and which may well disappear with the taking away of  Dr Grassby  's functions. If  Dr Grassby  is left only with investigation and conciliation functions and his duties of promoting education and understanding in the community are taken away, will these committees continue to function? Recently I received a letter from the Brisbane Consultative Committee of Community Relations, which said: 
The Committee expresses its concern that the Human Rights Commission Bill and the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill, which are currently before Federal Parliament, would reduce the chance for such activities as those in Queensland to be documented and brought to the attention of the public. 
That Committee was highly critical of the amalgamation of the two operations and the taking away of  Dr Grassby  's powers. Likewise the Australian Council of Churches said: 
Most of the functions of the present Commissioner for Community Relations are to be transferred to the Human Rights Commission. This appears to be a downgrading of the Commissioner as he will no longer be able to report directly to Parliament, will have less control over fewer staff, and will be under the supervision of the Commission. Assurances have been given that this supervision will be of a general kind and that he will continue to deal with most if not all complaints under the Racial Discrimination Act. However, the legislation does not give any clear guarantees that this will be the case. 
On the contrary the legislation makes it clear that he will be under the direction of the Commission. That word 'direction' has a wide meaning, covering, whatever direction the Human Rights Commission may choose to give. This is the worst insult and the worst mistake in this Bill; it is one which I find unforgivable. He is not to be a commissioner; he will not even be one of the seven commissioners. It is not that he should dominate the Human Rights Commission as one Commissioner but as a Commissioner of Community Relations he will be an employee. He will get directions. He will have no staff. He will not even receive the complaints that he will be dealing with. 
He will not bring any more of these reports to the Parliament. He may get a little niche in the report that is written by the Human Rights Commission. It may, of course, be written by someone else, but he will no longer be able to draw to the attention of this Parliament the matters that are so necessary for us to know. I have said that his functions will be divided and some of them could well die. I am not satisfied that that division of functions will work. When one looks at the situation in New Zealand, one finds that the Race Relations Commissioner,  Mr H.  L. Dansey, is a Human Rights Commissioner. They have no doubt in New Zealand that the two positions must be put together. In New Zealand one man deals with race relations- a very important part of human rights in New Zealand- yet at the same time he is a commissioner. Why should this not be the situation in Australia? 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m.  (Quorum formed). 
Before the suspension of sitting, I was dealing with what are in my opinion defects in the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill. I pointed out that quite curiously there is such a difference between what we are proposing to do in Australia where  Dr Grassby,  the Commissioner for Community Relations, is not to be a member of the Human Rights Commission, and the position in New Zealand where the Race Relations Commmissioner,  Mr H.  L. Dansey, is of course a Human Rights Commissioner. I pointed out that that is the desirable course and one that should be followed here. For that reason, among others, I am in complete disagreement with what the Bill proposes. 
I also mentioned that I think one of the significant developments which  Dr Grassby  has initiated is the formation of the 32 consultative committees which have been set up throughout the country and which have been inspired by his operation. I fear that, if he is submerged in the Human Rights Commission, they will die away. I think that they are most useful in view of the very small amount we spend on that operation. The fact that we have public spirited citizens throughout Australia who are prepared to join these committees and who have done a lot of work in support of the operation of the Commissioner over a number of years is something that we have to face if we are not to run a risk that by submerging the Commissioner in the Commission we may find that these committees will die away. We know that the council which was to be set up has not been set up at all. So, it does not matter whether we send its control from one area to another- from the Commissioner to the Commission. It in fact has not been established although the Act calls for it. But certainly the consultative committees should be considered as important and we should not jeopardise their operation. 
In regard to the Commissioner for Community Relations, there is another important aspect which I think must be considered by this chamber. That is that there is a possibility of a constitutional challenge to the whole operation of the Racial Discrimination Act. Unquestionably it is under challenge. If one reads the most recent report from the Commissioner, one will see that the Queensland Government has denied that the Act is constitutionally valid. It is known that certain citizens- the Winchinam group from Aurukun- have indeed sought legal aid from the Attorney-General so that they can pursue their claims that may ultimately lead to a challenge from the Queensland Government to the validity of the Racial Discrimination Act. I put to this chamber that this is no time for us to change the operation of the Community Relations Commission. This is no time for us to make a major change in the Racial Discrimination Act when a challenge is about to be launched which will determine whether the Racial Discrimination Act is valid. 
I note that even tonight we received from the Commissioner for Community Relations an information paper. It is an interesting paper which I have briefly read. It points out these facts and the constitutional validity which is under challenge. It is, I think, therefore very inauspicious that we should be considering changing and probably reducing the powers and effectiveness of the operation of the Commissioner for Community Relations at this time when that challenge is about to be launched. The fact is that in a letter to the Attorney-General dated 22 October 1979  Mr M.  J. Foley, the Secretary of the Brisbane Consultative Committee for Community Relations, referred to and supported the application for legal aid by the Winchinam group, which application I have also supported. He had this to say: 
The case is all the more important because of the attitude expressed by the Queensland Government in the letter of the Queensland Crown Solicitor to the Commissioner for Community Relations dated 17 July 1979. It is indeed an extraordinary situation where the Government of Queensland openly disputes the validity of the Racial Discrimination Aa of 1 975 and the Aboriginal Land Fund Act of 1 974. 
He of course there seeks among other things the support of the Commonwealth Government in defending the challenge- in other words, in defending the right of the Commonwealth to have taken the action under the International Convention and to have proclaimed and to have operated the Racial Discrimination Act. I think that it is most important that we support the validity of that Act of this Parliament. I think that to change the Act at this time when that challenge is about to come before the court is a most unwise act for this Parliament. 
I take a fundamental view in regard to the Racial Discrimination Act. Back in 1975, this Act was a matter of discussion between the Government and the Opposition. I was in the then Opposition which was insistent that certain amendments ought to be made to the Bill which the then Whitlam Government proposed. There were discussions. Arrangements were made and agreements were reached between the Government and the Opposition. The Bill went through the Parliament ultimately with the support of both the Government and the Opposition. I strongly supported that Bill at that time and I spoke in favour of it. Nothing will make me remove myself from that support. I believe that the operations of the Racial Discrimination Act since have been very good. There are indicated weaknesses. This position paper which I mentioned tonight indicates that probably there are amendments that could be made to the Act and it would be desirable to have that Act improved. Nonetheless, it is an Act to which I stand committed and nothing will persuade me to support any amendment to that Act which will weaken it. 
I therefore believe that the second Bill which is before us tonight, the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill, will weaken the operation of the present Act. I believe that if we take the office of the Commissioner for Community Relations, which has a certain amount of power, and put it into a Human Rights Commission, which on its present base is relatively weak, we will weaken the operation of the Commissioner. I am not satisfied with the amount of expenditure on and the amount of staff employed in the area of racial discrimination. At the moment it is not anything like adequate. I am certainly not satisfied that it is proposed to have sufficient staff to cover the whole operation of the Human Rights Commission plus the area of racial discrimination, and that the staff will in any way be even as adequate as is presently existent for the Commissioner for Community Relations. I am certainly not going to support any Bill which has that weakening effect of losing the present operation of the Commissioner for Community Relations in a relatively powerless Human Rights Commission. That this view is held by other people is quite evident. I refer to remarks which were made by the United Nations Association through its national  president  of the time,  Mr Richard  Alston. He is not now the  president.  He is now the  president  of my own State branch of the Liberal Party. Speaking last year about the operations of the Commissioner for Community Relations, he said: 
It will no doubt seem anomalous to some that while the Federal Government has set up an Industrial Relations Bureau to prosecute union officials, it has not established an Office with the necessary resources and authority to take racists to court. To this day there is no properly constituted Office of Community Relations and only the Commissioner has any statutory authority. His two deputies are on loan from other Government departments, and all matters pertaining to racial discrimination are handled by a skeletal staff: eight in the Canberra office and one representative in Melbourne and Sydney. The Commissioner has no representative in Western Australia, Queensland and the Northern Territory, where some of the worst instances of racial discrimination have been alleged. Neither has a Community Relations Council been set up in accordance with Part V of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975. 

 Mr Alston went on to say: 
In view of the weaknesses of the Act, the limited scope allowed the Commissioner for Community Relations, the failure to establish either a Community Relations Office or Council on a statutory basis, and the reality of racial discrimination in Australia, there are strong grounds for asking whether the Australian Government is serious in its commitment to fight for racial equality. 
That is a very strong statement. He went on to say that it may be said that the Bill is being undermined and the Government appears to have been sitting on its hands for more than three years. These statements were made by a man who is not hostile to the present Government. He is a man of great integrity and ability for whom I have a great deal of respect.  His  statements are strong support for the view that this is no time for us to be sabotaging the operation of the Commissioner for Community Relations. I also draw the attention of the Senate to the remarks made by the Uniting Church in Australia in a letter which was distributed to all honourable senators this day. The Church says, among other excellent statements, the following: 
The Commissioner for Community Relations is brought under the direction of the Human Rights Commission without being made a member of the Commission, and is therefore debarred from any part in the policy-making of the Commission. He becomes an employee only. His freedom to act independently from the political pressure of the government of the day, and from the power of the bureaucracy must be preserved. 
I suggest that these are statements by responsible and sensible people in our community. We must take some action by throwing out this Bill to ensure that we do not damage the operation against racial discrimination in this country. 
In conclusion I say that we must surely ensure no cosmetic approach to human rights generally. As  Chairman  of the Parliamentary Amnesty group, I am concerned that we should have the same genuine approach to human rights in this country that we have in relation to human rights in other countries. We have heard today from  Senator Wheeldon  about the report from the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the Soviet Union, which is obviously an excellent and most interesting report. We should be concerned with the sufferings of people who have defended human rights in that country. We must be even more sure that in this country we take genuine and practical steps; that they are not cosmetic steps which do not really do anything. If we do not do this we will have delay and a period in which nothing much will happen. We will have cynicism developing by those people who take complaints before a commission only to find it does not have very much power to do anything at all. We will lose the real achievements which we made against racial discrimination if we merely submerge operations of the Commissioner for Community Relations in the Human Rights Commission. 
I cannot support the Australian Labor Party's amendment because I do not believe that the way of a Bill of Rights is the right one; nor do I believe in the head-on fight that it might well develop with the States. The would be counterproductive and useless. I have defended for many years the concept that we ought to have a Human Rights Commission and that this is the right way to go, but only if such a Commission has within its powers the ability to carry out a really genuine compliance with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Therefore, I shall certainly proceed with all the amendments that I have foreshadowed. I will put all the strength I can into the fight to try to win their acceptance. I will, if I fail, support a limitation to the Human Rights Commission Bill. I will oppose the passage of the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill because I believe it is contrary to what I have fought for in this Parliament and what I have voted for in this Parliament. I believe that the members of this Parliament have to stand up and be counted. 
I hope that honourable senators on this side of the chamber will read the documents. I hope that they will get the material that is coming in from the community. I hope that they will not- as I have sensed with some of them- take the opportunity of putting aside the Bill and saying: 'I do not know about human rights. I have not read the material. I wish I had '. Let us be honest with ourselves. Let us read the material and make up our minds as to whether the arguments that I have circulated throughout this country and which there has been some response to are sound. I have not heard anyone suggest any  unsoundness. Perhaps the Attorney-General, when he makes a reply, will show that I have been unsound. In all the newspapers of the country there has been a lot of comment on this matter. Nobody has yet suggested that the things that I have suggested in my critique and other things that I have written are unsound. Let us hear if there is another answer. Let us take human rights seriously in this country and ensure that we produce Bills of which we can be proud. (Quorum formed). 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I draw the Minister's attention to an  Age  report of 30 October 1979 relating to claims by 
Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation scientists that long exposure to chemical odours could cause brain damage. Is the Minister aware of this report and the scientists' claim that the effects they have discovered may have considerable significance for the safety of humans exposed to environmental and occupational chemicals? Will the Minister comment on this report and, in doing so, inform the Senate whether practices such as the odorising of airconditioning at present occur in Australia? In view of these claims, does the Minister agree that the Government should give more consideration to the environments in which people are continually exposed to odours? If so, will the Minister assure the Senate that any chemical suspected of causing atmosphere contamination will be banned until such time as investigations into its safety are conducted? 
I have not heard the whole of this debate but I certainly heard what was said by  Senator Evans  and  Senator Tate.  I was greatly surprised to hear them make the allegations they made. Clearly this must be shown as a case of urgent necessity.  Senator Evans  maintains, despite Standing 
Order 448, that it would not matter whether the terms of reference of such an inquiry were decided later. No question of urgency was raised by him at all. It is not urgent to set up this inquiry at present. But it would seem to me that this whole debate, as  Senator Chipp  has said, must inevitably affect the credibility of witnesses and the evidence which is being given in proceedings that are going on at present. It is scandalous that it should be suggested that this matter should be debated at this time. To do so could only have harmful effects. That cannot be judged, but you can judge,  Mr President,  that to debate this matter would interfere with court proceedings which are presently proceeding in New South Wales. I suggest that, clearly, this debate should not be allowed to proceed. 
-I oppose this amendment. It takes us into a different field altogether.  (Quorum formed).  In opposing this amendment I trust that I will be shorter than  Senator Evans  was in supporting it. I believe that Opposition senators have fallen into the usual lemming-like trap. 
-I am glad that  Senator Wheeldon  wants to know. I would not like him to face the position of being one of the Opposition senators to go forward over the cliff one after another. They have done it earlier.  Senator Murphy  did it with his Bill. He took on the States and found that the States would not have a bar of it. Rightly, of course, they were worried by the provisions that he put forward. If this amendment were carried, the same problem would arise again. What it does in effect is to redefine the acts or practices in the Bill. It would have the effect that the amendment which I propose to move later to enable those acts or practices to be investigated and reported on by the Commission would also relate to the State acts or practices. It is quite clear that if that happened we would have the same row with the States. It is all right for  Senator Evans  to say one has to choose between the federalist principle and the human rights principle. He is insisting on these two coming into conflict.  (Quorum formed).  To add this definition and to bring the States into this will mean that one would have an obvious war, a fight between the federalist principle being espoused by the States and the human rights principle. They should not be brought into conflict. We should avoid that as far as possible. If, in fact, the Senate carries my amendment this will enable the Acts and practices of the Commonwealth to be investigated. It may be that as a result of investigations of the powers of the Commission and subsequent investigations, or the operation of a sunset clause, the legislation will be found inadequate and that we will have to go further. 
Let us start by looking at the Acts and practices of the Commonwealth, those that are within the jurisdiction and control of this particular Parliament.  (Quorum formed).  I appreciate the avid desire of the Opposition to give me a sound audience but it is not easy to keep the line of one's argument in these circumstances. I think the position here is quite clear. I seek to improve this Bill, to move a step further so that we investigate the great mass of complaints in this country. We should not rush headlong into an area where we are starting to change the laws and to enforce State laws, thus inviting an unnecessary battle with the States. Because of the distinction between these things and the situation we are in, because of the unreality of the proposal that  Senator Evans  and the Labor Party put forward here, I urge that this amendment be rejected. 
I move: 
Page 4, after clause 5, insert the following new clause: 5  a.  Approval is given to ratification by Australia of the Covenant.'. 
It seems to me that it is quite important that in passing a Bill like this we ought to place on record the approval which the Parliament gives to the ratification of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. I agree, of course, that it is not essential for the Government to do this by way of Executive act as it can do it by way of Executive act if it is motivated to do so, but I believe that it is high time that we placed on record, in passing this Bill, that we desire that to be done. This is, of course, not binding on the Government as to the particular time at which it does it or, necessarily, to the possibility that the Government may not agree to be bound by every one of the Articles. Nonetheless, it would be an indication of the Parliament's general approval. This Bill would show a general desire to ratify the Covenant. The precedent for this action is very obviously the Racial Discrimination Act of 1975 when precisely the same clause was carried. We there approved and set up a system whereby we were to enforce a different international covenant, but in that Act we expressly made the provision that would authorise and indicate the desirability in the Parliament's thinking of the ratification of the Covenant. I believe it is desirable and it may well expedite the actual ratification of the Covenant. 
One hears vague statements made about the difficulties of that ratification. There seems to be some thought that, because our laws do not accord entirely with the provisions in the 
Covenant, somehow we are not in a position to ratify it. I believe that it is not so, and I doubt very much whether our laws ever will- certainly not in the foreseeable future- entirely accord with the Covenant. So, that cannot be a reason for not ratifying the Covenant. We have gone past the 25th anniversary, the 30th anniversary, and I think we are getting close to the 31st anniversary of the opportunity of ratifying the Covenant and we have not done it. I believe that, in passing this Bill, we should indicate that the Parliament has a view on the subject of ratification. It is for those purposes that I move this amendment 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
1 ) Is regular petrol-inhaling by young Aboriginal children taking place along the eastern Arnhem Land coast of the Northern Territory. 
What investigations has the Government made into: (a) the reasons for an increasing number of young Aboriginal children indulging in this activity; and (b) the extent of the problem. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence and relates to the investigation conducted in 1976 by  Mr Duke  Bonnett, M.P., into the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1973. I preface my question by saying that the Bonnett report dealing with anomalies and injustices under the present Act was presented to the Prime Minister in 1977. Given the time which has elapsed, I ask the Minister: Is the report still under consideration by the Government authorities concerned? Will the Minister inform the Senate when copies of the report will be tabled to enable public debate? Is the Minister aware that claimants under the former Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Scheme continue to live in a manner and at a standard which comparably is far below what is enjoyed under the contemporary Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Scheme? Will the Minister comment on the present inadequate situation and, in doing so, assure the Senate that the recommendations contained in the Bonnett report will be processed with greater speed in order that corrective action may be taken at the earliest opportunity? 
On the point of order,  Mr President:  I have not seen the question to which  Senator Colston  referred, but I would be mystified and staggered if, by some accident, I have asked the same question. I would think that the question referred to would bear no relationship to my question, nor do I know of the existence of such a question. I ask you, sir, to look at the question referred to if it is suggested that my question is similar to it. I certainly have not copied any question; the question I asked is entirely my own. 
I have circulated a further amendment to clause 7. This arises from our lack of success early this morning in the vote on the second of the two Bills, the 
Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill. Honourable senators will recall that that Bill has the effect of incorporating the racial discrimination administration under  Mr Grassby  in the operations of the Human Rights Commission but does not make him a commissioner of the Human Rights Commission. As a number of honourable senators have said, that is an extraordinary anomaly, especially when one bears in mind that in New Zealand, where there is a Race Relations Conciliator, the Conciliator is one of the human rights commissioners. 
They are going quite well. They have perhaps more of a problem than even we have in Australia. Nonetheless,  Mr Dancey  the Race Relations Conciliator, is a member of the Human Rights Commission there. It seems to me that the same principle should apply in this country. Accordingly, I move: 
Page 4, clause 7, after sub-clause ( 1 ), insert the following new sub-clause: ( 1  a)  The person holding office as the Commissioner for Community Relations shall be one of the members of the Commission. '. 
The effect of that is that one member of the Commission, which is to consist of a  chairman,  a  deputy chairman  and not less than five nor more than nine other members, would already have been already identified as the person who holds the rank and office, under the Racial Discrimination Act, of Commissioner for Community Relations. The argument for that is very strong. For some four years we have had a Commissioner for Community Relations,  Mr Grassby.  This has been a proved and tried method under the Racial Discrimination Act. The provision in that Act is stronger than that in the present Bill. Greater powers are provided, and we are incorporating the two functions. One would therefore concede that a person who had already had four years in the heat of battle should be one of seven commissioners and have the opportunity to advise the others and work with them in the development of this new, over-riding Commission. I accept the suggestion that the idea of having an over-riding Commission has much to commend it. Indeed, the Galbally report recommended it, but the idea that one should have a new Commission yet exclude the existing commissioner from being a member of it is quite extraordinary. I have yet to hear in this Parliament or in the public debate any explanation from the Government or the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  as to why this is proposed. I wait with bated breath tonight to hear that explanation given. I point out that lest it be thought that  Mr Al  Grassby, who is a fairly dynamic character, might dominate the Commission - 
The honourable senator is too quick for me. That is exactly what I was going to say. If  Mr Grassby  is only one of seven commissioners he is not likely to dominate the Commission. I would expect that the Government would appoint as commissioners a number of people of diverse experience. One would be a judge and the others would have differing qualifications. They would not be the blushing violets of our society or people lacking in experience. They would be people with some knowledge of human rights and therefore well able to look after themselves. They could well have  Mr Al  Grassby in their ranks because he has had the experience. He has already, with his administration, dealt with  3,000  cases in the last three or four years. He dealt with almost  1,000  cases last year, as his magnificent report, which has been submitted to the Parliament, indicates. It is clear that insufficient funding has been provided to enable him to carry out all the activities we would have liked or to have achieved the success that we would have liked. 
I agree. I have found that he has been warmly received at many of the ethnic groups and societies whose meetings I have attended. He has displayed enormous energy. If one reads his report and the information provided at the back thereof one notes the enormous number of organisations and functions that he has attended over a considerable period. Such experience should not be lost to us. Under the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill which has yet to be discussed in detail,  Mr Grassby  is to be under the direction of the Human Rights Commission. How extraordinary it is that the one man who has already had the experience should be under the direction of a Commission that has not so far had the experience or the opportunity to meet on an equal plane. 
As passage of the Bill before us is proceeding- it has been read a second time- I propose this amendment in order to achieve at least our major objective. If  Mr Grassby  is a member of the Commission many of the other objections to the second Bill may fade away to some extent. Then he would have a say in the way in which directions were given to him. He would be present and would be able to argue the matter. Under the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill, no opportunity will be presented for him to have a separate staff, but he would be in a position to argue the need for such staff if he were a commissioner. Similarly, although he would not have an opportunity in future to tender a separate report he would have an opportunity to argue what the Commission's report should contain. 
Although I do not see this proposed amendment as providing an ideal solution I see it as securing fundamental justice, and not just for this man. It meets the requirement that we should not in any way turn the racial discrimination administration into a defective organisation; that we should not create a situation in which there will be a clash between the Human Rights Commission and the Commissioner for Community Relations. They should be brought together on the same plane. For these reasons I have moved this amendment, which I regard as extremely important to the continuing operation of racial discrimination oversight and the most effective working of the Human Rights Commission. 
-May I be just a little more generous than that? Having discussed this matter with the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  I think that this amendment and the other amendment cure the problem which I saw. Sub-clause ( 1 ) (c) is in fairly general terms, but the way in which the AttorneyGeneral is now amending it to make it quite clear that it is to be on the Human Rights Commission's initiative or when requested by the Minister, widens it and puts it beyond doubt. Clause 9 seems to me to cover all kinds of things standing by itself, but when one looks at subclause (d), which relates only to action which is needed to be taken to comply with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights or other instruments and it is only on the request of the Minister, one could well interpret that this cuts down or restricts at least that aspect of the matter and therefore that, read with sub-clause ( 1 ) (c), it really cuts down sub-clause ( 1 ) (c). It seems to me to be highly desirable that subclause ( 1 ) (d) should go out altogether and that the clause should be altered and put beyond any doubt so that people who read the Bill, apart from anything else, will know that these things can happen by reason of the initiative of the Commission and not just because the AttorneyGeneral suggests that it should be done. It seems to me that this certainly covers the amendment which I proposed to move in relation to subclause ( 1 ) (d) as well and I am happy to support it. 
Unfortunately, one is compelled to speak to this motion in a most odd way. There is not before the chamber or in  Hansard  at the moment, the contents of the statement that we are discussing. As the  Chairman  of the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs which presented the report to which a response has now been made by the Government, it is my desire to say a few words about that response. 
That is exactly what I am seeking to do. I do that seriously as chairman of an all-party committee of this Senate which submitted the report. 
Let me assure  Senator Cavanagh  that I do not intend to be a hostage to him and be told, as the honourable senator tells me, that I must go to my Whip and resolve some complaint or problem. I speak as a senator and as a  chairman  of a committee. I expect the other members of my Committee to support me when I seek, as I now do, to have incorporated in  Hansard  the statement that the AttorneyGeneral has just tabled so that people may understand what it is that we are talking about. 
I will therefore, as part of my speech, read the statement, which I have before me. 
-I note that  Senator Cavanagh  is the one who objects. I certainly do not intend to take it lightly. As  chairman  of the Committee I will consider my position. 
-I will not take it to my own Whip. I will take it up in my own way. So that I can make suitable comment on the statement made this morning by the AttorneyGeneral in response to this useful report, I believe that I should read the statement. The Attorney-General says: 
On 29 March 1979 the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs presented its report on Parliamentary scrutiny of rules of court. 
The report contains the following three recommendations: 
1 ) That rules of court of superior Commonwealth courts should, as a general rule, be made by a rules committee comprising judges of the particular court and representatives of the legal profession regularly practising in that court; 
That the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances devise procedures to enable it to make recommendations to the Senate which, if agreed to by the Senate, would be conveyed to the appropriate Commonwealth court to enable it to consider the creation, amendment or substitution of the rules of that court; and 
That the Government consider the establishment of an Institute of Judicial Administration to Assist the judiciary in the administration of court systems and to provide information and advice to enable the judges to keep their rules of court practical, simple and uptodate; alternatively that funds be provided to assist the voluntary body of the same name which was established in 1978. 
As far as the first recommendation is concerned, the Government takes the view that, with a few exceptions such as those I will mention shortly, the power to make rules of court should continue to be vested in the judges. We would not therefore seek to amend the relevant legislation to vest the power in rule-making committees as proposed by the Senate Committee. Indeed, to do so might be seen as an undue interference by the Executive in the administration of the courts.  Senator Missen  mentioned this problem when he presented the report of the Senate Standing Committee in the Senate. But the principle of consultation with the profession is a good one and the Government accepts that there should be such consultation. The establishment in the Australian Capital Territory of a non-statutory advisory rules committee on which members of the practising legal profession are represented is a practical precedent which the Government will seek to have followed in other Commonwealth jurisdictions. 
I should make it clear that, while stating this to be the general rule, in the Government's view there are necessarily some exceptions, where matters of practice and procedure are properly enacted by the Parliament itself or made by the Governor-General. Three circumstances were recognized by the Senate Committee in its report where this approach was justified, namely, to achieve uniformity in the exercise of a particular federal jurisdiction, to provide as a matter of policy for informality in proceedings (as in Family Law proceedings) and where it is desired to set court fees on a particular basis is furtherance of a particular policy. 
At present the Parliament has power to disallow rules of court. The second recommendation would not affect that power but would involve an additional element by broadening the criteria under which the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances operates to enable it to make recommendations for the amendment of rules of court which it has before it as a result of its present function and to recommend new rules to deal with matters not otherwise adequately covered. Recommendations of this kind, if agreed to by the Senate, would be conveyed to the appropriate court for its consideration. 
If the Senate Standing Committe's second proposal is acceptable to the Senate, the Government would have no objection to its implementation on the basis that it is clearly understood that the Courts will be quite free to accept or reject any recommendations made in this way. Subject to the ultimate sanction of disallowance possessed by the Parliament, it is the view of the Government that the judges should have the final say on what the rules of their courts should be. 
The third recommendation relates to the establishment of an Institute of Judicial Administration or the provision of funds to assist a body of that name which was incorporated in the Australian Capital Territory in 1978. While bodies of this kind exist in the United States and the United Kingdom, the Government is not satisfied that there is any demonstrated present need for the establishment of a new body to deal with judicial administration in Australia. So far as the proposal seeks support for the existing Institute with funds, the Government notes that Institute has only recently been established and that its existence and objects are not, as yet, widely supported even by members of the judiciary. The judges themselves have expressed differing views to the Senate Committee on the nature and functions of any such body and on the need for its existence. 
After considering all the circumstances the Government is of the view that judicial administration should be left within the judicial system and that to assist the existing Institute with public funds would not, at this stage, be justified. 
As a short comment on that statement by the Attorney-General, as  Chairman  of the Committee might I say that I am somewhat disappointed as to the extent to which the Government has proceeded. It is, I think, a rather timid statement. I agree with most of what  Senator Evans  said with respect to these matters. As to the rules of court being made by a rules committee, we will see from the statement that the Government has agreed that it is a good idea to have consultation. It does accept the essential principle that the profession ought to have a say and it should not be left to judges alone to decide what the rules should be. They see it from one side of the fence, but there is more than one side. There are several sides of the fence in this case, and I think it is unfortunate that we will not have on the rules committees members of the profession who can make their contribution at that stage. However, the Government accepts consultation and the establishment in the Australian Capital Territory, for example, of a nonstatutory advisory rules committee and that this principle should be followed in other jurisdictions. It is what I might say is a rather timid acceptance of the principle. I regret that it does not go so far as the report recommends. 
The second recommendation, which if I remember rightly was not mentioned by  Senator Evans,  is one in relation to suggestions which are made for rules and changes of rules of court. Of course it is a fact that we should not endeavour as a Parliament or as a House of the Parliament to try to change or to dictate to the judges their rules. I think that would be undesirable and certainly that was in no way intended by the recommendation which the Committee made. But at the same time it is welcome indeed that the Government accepts the fact that this Senate should, through the activities of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, endeavour to set out circumstances and the way in which such recommendations can be put forward by this House of the Parliament and can go before the judges. Of course they would have the final say as to whether they should deny, accept, or do something in a different way. To that extent I think the recommendation by the Government, or its decision, is helpful. 
So far as the third recommendation is concerned, that is, the establishment of an institute of judicial administration, I must say that I am very disappointed with the response which the Government has made to that recommendation. We have suggested either the setting up of such  an institute or that funds be provided for the existing private institute. But the decision of the Government is to accept neither of those alternatives but to wait and see what happens. I recognise that the private organisation that has been set up has been operating for a short time only, and therefore it may be impossible to know how successful it may be. But if it has no funds, one can make a fair guess that it will not get very far or develop very much useful work. If members of the Senate would have a look at the report and what we have said in this recommendation, they will see that there is nothing unique in Australia about having such an institute, that a number of them are operating very effectively in the United States and in England doing excellent work. Courts ought to be efficient. It is not sufficient to say that because judges are doing the major administration they are necessarily businessmen. In the Supreme Court in Victoria, for example, I think what is called a manager has been appointed.  (Quorum formed).  The Government's statement does say that of course this private institute has been established only recently, and it does refer to the fact that there are differing views about it. 

 Senator Evans has referred to the view of the Chief Justice,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, that he does not favour support of the present private Institute of Judicial Administration, but he did go on to say, as quoted in the report: 
I hold the view that a proper system of judicial administration, set up by statute and administered by the judicial system itself, will keep the judicial machinery in good order much better than any voluntary body outside the judicial system. 
He is making a distinction between it being done under a properly instituted system and a private body. But there are other judges who have taken the view that in fact it ought to be done in some cases by the Australian Law Reform Commission, or be done by the private body that has been set up. 
I think it is a pity that this matter is not taken further by the Government at this stage. We should not just wait until we see how the private body performs in this way, but we should recognise that it is an important area of government administration. It is not a matter on which we can expect judges to be any good on the plain administrative work which has to be done and which can ensure that courts do not have the problems which we have seen in some Federal courts of considerable delays, with all their effect on litigants, increased costs and so forth. I believe that this is a matter on which there must be more government intervention and it must come down in due course on the side of either setting up an institute which does this work or giving some funds to the private body. From that point of view I am certainly disappointed so far as the response to the third recommendation is concerned. As to the others, I think there is much to be said for the fact that the Government shows some initiative in those areas. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I support what has been said and commend the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs for his perspicacity in dealing with this matter and bringing it forward. I also commend  Senator Cavanagh,  the  Deputy Chairman  of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, for his persistence in bringing this matter to the attention of the Minister and pressing it. What has been said by  Senator Cavanagh  is quite correct. As  Chairman  of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, I am pleased to see this alteration being made. What has been said by  Senator Cavanagh  in respect to the difference between this form of disallowance and the more usual form is understood and appreciated. One just cannot duplicate such provisions in every case, and one may have to do something in the course of a recess. 
I disagree slightly with the Minister's statement that there is probably very little difference between the two. I think there is some difference in the sense that it is a weakening of the power of the Houses of Parliament to disallow if, in fact, the onus is on them to get a matter on and to disallow it. Whereas there are situations in which apathy may have some effect, clearly in this case it ought to be a determination that means that a declaration should be made. The onus is there to establish it. The onus should be on those who seek to uphold the declaration. An example of that occurred recently in the House of Representatives with regard to the disallowance of regulations- telecommunications by-laws. The effect of the failure to bring on the motion was that the by-laws were deemed to be disallowed. 
It may be that at times one is not at all clear whether a majority is for or against a disallowance, but the onus is certainly on the Government under the provision to be inserted in this Bill to bring it forward and to establish that there is clear support for that decision in the debate that takes place. It is true, as  Senator Cavanagh  pointed out, that when the Committee tried to find out why this provision was put into the original legislation no one really seemed to know why it was put in this unusual form, which we think is a disagreeable form and a form that weakens the powers of the Houses of the Parliament. The important point now is that the provision which is being inserted in this legislation will provide for better consistency and the principle is being established that the onus should be on those who wish to uphold regulations, not the other way round. I am therefore very pleased to see this provision being put in the Bill. 
1 propose to make a short speech on the subject of this Bill. 
I thank  Senator Evans  for that charming comment. 
Maybe brevity will still be the soul of wit and maybe a long speech does not necessarily prove to be the most useful speech. I think  Mr Everett,  who made the long speech lasting three hours before Lincoln's three-minute Gettysburg Address, is forgotten by history and Lincoln is the man who is remembered. 
May I say that I do not regard this as a large Bill. It is a Bill which I think does some useful things. I do not propose to go into the detail that  Senator Evans  did. After his third final point he tried to tie me into the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) situation. That does not seem to have very much to do with this Bill. I am hopeful that before Christmas we will hear some good news in that area. I would hope so. But it does not seem to help very much in a discussion of this Bill. It is clear that  Senator Evans  is unhappy about this Bill and unhappy about various things which have not yet happened to increase the jurisdiction of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. This Bill does, I think, make some useful amendments. I am sorry that I did not hear the earlier part of  Senator Evans'  speech and what he said in praise of the Bill, if he did say anything in praise of it. 
Let us remind ourselves that insofar as the Government is progressively extending the jurisdiction of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, one does not expect it to be done speedily. One does not expect that the Tribunal ought to be taking on great slabs of jurisdiction at a particular time until it has digested others. One recognises that the recommendations which this Bill covers are useful. Those recommendations were made by the Administrative Review Council. Insofar as the recommendations increase the ability of the Council to bring to it people with expertise in other areas, that in itself is extremely valuable. It is also useful in that it allows the  President  of the Tribunal and the presidency of the Council to be separated because of the increasing work of both bodies. One can pay very considerable tribute to  Mr Justice  Brennan and the work that he has already done. There is no reflection on him in this necessity. He recognises the desirability of not having a situation where there could be a conflict of interest between the two people who hold the post of  president. 
So far as the rather complex provisions in this Bill in regard to stay orders are concerned, I think they are useful. Obviously there are defects in this area which have to be remedied. It seems to me that  Senator Evans  expects too much too quickly. In a very short time the Administrative Appeals Tribunal has done some excellent work in this new area of administrative review. I would like to put into the record tonight the statement which the Tribunal recently issued setting out the details of its business for the year ended 30 June 1979. There is one table in it that might not be suitable for reproduction but it is not essential to the document. I seek leave to have this material incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Applications for extension of time to apply for review- 1978-79 = 43; 1977-78 = 22; 1976-77 = 4. 
Applications to be made a party- 1978-79 = 3; 
1977- 78 = 1; 1976-77=2. 
Applications for stay of decision reviewed- 
1978- 79 = 31; 1977-78 = 12; 1976-77 = 2. 

<graphic href="083232197911155_68_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197911155_69_0.jpg"></graphic>

HEARINGS 
Eighteen preliminary conferences were held during 1978-79 (78 in 1977-78). 

<graphic href="083232197911155_69_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197911155_69_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197911155_69_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197911155_69_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197911155_69_5.jpg"></graphic>

Regarding the work that the Tribunal has done, it must be recognised that there has been a change in the jurisdiction. Additional items have been added to its jurisdiction each year. In fact, one can see change and improvement coming in future years. Looking at the figures in this table, one finds that in 1977-78 the Australian Capital Territory Rates Ordinance constituted 1 2 1 , or 44 per cent, of the total lodgments of claims. In the year 1978-79 that declined to 39.2 per cent. My understanding from discussions with the judge is that these claims will constantly decline as the principles have been laid down in these cases. 
Three minutes, is it? I am not putting myself in the Lincoln class. I undertook to speak for at least five minutes. With all respect to  Senator Knight,  who no doubt believes that Australian Capital Territory rates cases are ones that ought to go direct to the High Court, I am glad to see that the percentage of the amount of jurisdiction which is devoted to this very fascinating area of rates is declining. I can see that I am not going to receive any more votes from Canberra citizens in future elections. I will have to bear that with equanimity. It would appear that we are going to have less concentration on rates and more on the other areas of jurisdiction. Despite what  Senator Evans  has said, no doubt we will get a position where the very imortant area of social security will, having been properly considered, be put into the jurisdiction of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. That is obviously an important addition to jurisdiction. 
I believe that there is a lot more to be given to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. I did not entirely agree with him when it was suggested that the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances found that there was any great resistance to the provision of appeals and to putting matters in the hands of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. That is not my impression from the responses which we had from Ministers. Obviously the jurisdiction will increase to a number of areas because there are a lot of areas in our laws where there are not adequate forms of appeal provided at the present time. 
Therefore, I believe that this is a useful Bill in a limited compass. I believe that we will see it followed by other Bills in this area. 
Having recently presented a report on freedom of information, the members of that committee hope that there will be very substantial work done by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal in that area of the law. It is not necessary for us suddenly to flood this Tribunal with a great deal of jurisdiction. It is important that it develop as quickly as possible, but in an orderly fashion. I commend the Government for putting forward these useful amendments and trust that it will continue to keep the jurisdiction question under very close attention. 
-When I considered this matter the last time we were discussing the legislation, I certainly was of the opinion that what the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  was proposing was perfectly adequate. It seemed to me, by expanding the terms of paragraph ( 1 ) (c) of clause 9, that that widened the coverage of human rights. I listened to what  Senator Evans  said and certainly agree that there is some possibility of a restriction on the meaning of human rights which are, of course, defined as human rights under the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. I put to the Attorney that there is another reason that gives me some doubt about the desirability of wiping out this paragraph; that is, that it still leaves paragraph (e) as it stands. 
Paragraph (e) is curious in some respects because it is a very limited reference to international instruments. It gives the Commission the power to examine any relevant international instrument that the Minister requests- and as I understand the situation the Attorney might accept the amendment I am proposing or the Government may move the amendment on its own initiative- the Commission to examine for the purpose of ascertaining whether there are any inconsistencies between the instrument and the Covenant. This is a very limited reference in paragraph (e) to the international instrument. 
-Yes, that is what I fear, that it may well be thought that this is the only power that relates to the investigation by the Commission into international instruments and which relates to that very specific provision to look for inconsistencies which surely must be only a small pan of the interest which the Commission ought to have in international instruments. Bearing that in mind, in addition to the argument which  Senator Evans  has raised, I wonder and I put it strongly to the Attorney, whether it would not be safer to allow paragraph (d) to be amended in order to leave it open to the provision- the Government may also do this on its own initiative- rather than remove it and rely entirely on paragraph (c). 
I present the sixty-eighth report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances relating to matters considered by the Committee during the second half of 1979. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
I wish to move an amendment. This paragraph, which relates to further functions of the Commission states, as it stands, that the Commission is to examine any relevant international instrument that the Minister has requested the Commission to examine. I move: 
Page 6, clause 9, sub-clause ( 1 ), paragraph (e ), lines 5 and 6, leave out 'to examine any relevant international instrument that the Minister has requested the Commission to examine', insert 'on its own initiative or when requested by the Minister, to examine any relevant international instrument'. 
The amendment would bring the paragraph into line with the provisions which the AttorneyGeneral has suggested in relation to paragraph (c). I understand that the Attorney has agreed to this proposal, which relates to a relatively minor and specific power concerning the investigation of an instrument to see whether in fact it may contain inconsistencies by comparison with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. This seems to me to be something that the Commission ought to be able to do on its own volition. It would be self-motivating and there would be no delay. The Commission could proceed to look into such matters. I do not propose to say more on the amendment at this stage. 
I move: 
The Commission then may examine- I will paraphrase- any State Act or Northern Territory enactment and may also inquire into any Acts and practices that may be inconsistent with any human right. The point I wish to make is that this clause does not go to the extent to which the amendment of  Senator Evans  and the Opposition would have gone into State acts and practices. Under the definition clause of the Bill, State acts and practices are defined as relating to Commonwealth laws. I am sorry, that is not the relevant point here. The amendment enables the Commission to examine the laws and also the acts and practices that are performed under State laws. The Commission's examination would be limited by the requirement that it be 'relevant and conducive' to the performance of its other functions. In other words, it is not intended that it should be a fishing expedition, with the Commission going all over the place looking at State acts and practices. Those acts and practices must relate to the powers that are already in the Bill. Also, they must be shown to be for the protection and advancement of human rights in Australia. 
The argument that the great majority of breaches of human rights in this country occur under State laws, acts and practices has already been made. There is no doubt about that. That is where the people are most greatly affected, where police actions happen, where actions concerned with housing and other activities are encountered and where discriminations and objections are likely to be raised. It cannot be said that we are complying properly with this particular Convention if we do not examine the major areas in which breaches take place. Therefore one has a situation- quite apart from the requirement under Article 50 of the Covenantwhereby actions and laws shall extend to all parts of federal States without any limitations or exceptions. To comply with that, and to be seen to comply with it, we need to have this relationship with the investigation of State laws. One of the reasons why it ought to be considered in this broad way is covered in a letter that I received today from Professor Julius Stone, the Professor of Law at the University of New South Wales. Professor Stone had read and spoken of the critique that I had written on the two Bills. He writes: 
Your points on both Bills, if I may say so, seem to me powerful and persuasive. 
Perhaps I may add that, in the present state of international alignments, it would be hazardous for the Commonwealth to enter into new international obligations such as the Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and yet not assume legislatively the necessary powers to secure respect for those obligations throughout Australia. This might produce situations custom-made to provide pretexts for politically motivated intrusions of unfriendly groups of States in our affairs. Such dangers, of course, always exist; but we should not increase them by making empty gestures.  1 suggest that honourable senators should take into account the fact that Professor Julius Stone, who is an expert on international law and matters of law generally, points out that we really need to take up the legislative powers under the Covenant and see that they apply throughout Australia, or we shall leave ourselves open to criticism and attack by people who may say that we are not complying with our duties under the Covenant. 
Likewise, among the submissions that have been made to the Government in this area are those made by the Queensland Council for Civil Liberties. The Council has also pointed out the necessity to go as far as this in order to give a new and vital impetus to the question of investigation of the laws. In addition, we are covering here an area in which the major contests are likely to occur. If we are not in a position in which the Commonwealth and the Commission have the power to investigate those matters it may well be argued- as was argued by the Queensland Council for Civil Liberties- that we are not acting in conformity with the Covenant when we fail to take up the necessary power. In fact, our external powers may not apply. We may not, in fact, be complying with the Covenant and using our external affairs power if we do not take up the duty to investigate, or look into at least, interstate laws. I know that that is opposed by the Government. I could understand the opposition to that situation if it were an interference with State laws and an attempt to change them. But I cannot understand the suggestion that the Commission is not. to have the power to compare State laws with Federal laws, to compare one State law with another, or to come up with draft suggestions to try to give leadership in this country on the question of improving the various laws relating to human rights. It is for these reasons that I have moved my amendment which I trust, even at this late stage, may be accepted. 
I think that  Senator Evans'  proposal is too drastic. There may be a need for work to be done by a State or a State authority, not only jointly as provided for in clause 1 1 ( 1 ) (a). Sub-clause ( 1 ) (b) involves a provision under which one could imagine, particularly in circumstances where a limited number of persons is available, that a State authority would be suitably able to carry out some of the Commission's functions. On the other hand, it seems to me that there is a grave danger that an arrangement could be made by a future Attorney-General with a future State Attorney which the Commission is without any ability of its own to refuse. It could be bypassed and some of its functions taken away. I put this view in my speech on the second reading, so I will not expand on it. That seems to me to be a dangerous situation, and it is encompassed by the amendments of both the Opposition and myself. 
My proposal is to offer two amendments to provide that, firstly, it should be done only by regulations, and those regulations would be subject to disallowance by the houses of the Parliament. The Parliament would therefore keep control over any breaking up of the powers of the Commission. Secondly, it should be done with the consent of the Commission, so that the Commission, which is the expert body in this field, knows what is being done and agrees to it. Those are the amendments, Nos. 6 and 7, that I will move and I suggest that they are preferable to the amendment moved by the Opposition. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 8 November 1979: 
1 ) Have special research grant allocations in universities decreased from 2.6 per cent of recurrent grants in 1968 to 0.7 per cent in 1976. 
What are the most recent comparable figures. 
Will expenditure on research funding be increased during the next two years; if so, by what percentage. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister, concerns radioactive levels at the Nabarlek and Ranger uranium sites. Is the Minister aware that radioactive monitoring information provided by a company to the Department of Mines and Energy in Darwin cannot be made available to the public without the express permission of the company? Is he also aware that radiation levels at both Nabarlek and Ranger are monitored in the first instance by the companies concerned and not by an independent organisation? Will the Minister comment on these present practices? Is he concerned that they present the perfect opportunity for companies to cover up any high readings? If so, will he assure the Senate that every effort will be made to ensure that the monitoring of radiation levels is done by an independent organisation with the results being made freely available? 
by leave- As the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, I welcome the response that the Government has made to its report on this subject. This whole procedure has occupied quite a long time. The controversy over the matter really occurred in this Parliament in 1971. Although it was referred to my Committee in 1972, the Committee discovered when it was reconstituted in 1 976 that no submissions had been made on the subject and that very little progress had been made. Subsequently, the matter was taken up again and the report submitted to the Senate in November 1977. The response of the Government has taken well beyond the accepted six months period. Indeed, some two years have elapsed. However, it is of value that we can now see from the statement of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  that positive action is now being taken. This could result in effective measures being taken at some reasonably early date concerning the law of evidence of the various Territories. 
The fact that the Government has accepted the recommendation of the Committee and has referred the matter of evidence laws to the Law Reform Commission is highly satisfactory. The Commission is in a position to take up the question of uniform laws of evidence for the various Federal and Territory courts. The resulting comprehensive laws of evidence would incorporate the various changes which have been found necessary in recent years, 
I understand the decision made by the Attorney-General that in the meanwhile Parliament should not re-enact the Bill. The Committee 's report went to some length in discussing the various reforms of the laws of evidence that it felt ought to be re-enacted in a new Bill but, obviously, this will be subject to embellishment and change by the work of the Law Reform Commission. Obviously, it is not desirable that too frequently great changes should be made in the laws of evidence. Rather, we should settle on uniform laws.  Mr Justice  Kirby expects to be able to produce a report with reasonable speed and that would seem to cover the situation. 
We are pleased also to see that the question of setting down guidelines to determine whether legislatibn for the Territories should be made by Act or ordinance is to be further considered. The Committee put forward its views concerning the circumstances in which matters should be dealt with by laws of this Parliament or by ordinance. Apparently we need not fear that the interdepartmental committee will consider the subject at length and cause delay. An indication has been given that it will report to Cabinet shortly. That being so, we could expect a further report to be made to the Parliament so that it would be possible to resolve the question as to when, and in what circumstances we need an Act of Parliament or an ordinance. 
In general, may 1 say on behalf of the Committee that we thank the Attorney-General and the Government for their response. We believe that the day is coming closer when the laws of evidence of this country affecting Federal courts can be rendered uniform. In that process the Federal Government can lead the way and demonstrate that it has caught up with the times, instead of lagging behind as it is at present. In those circumstances, and with the undertakings that have been given by the Government, I welcome the Attorney-General 's statement. 
-I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction to the recent Budget decision relating to reductions in this year's Federal public housing expenditure. Is it correct that as a consequence of this decision the Federal Government's contribution to the Victorian public housing budget will be reduced by at least 30 per cent during this financial year? Is the Minister aware that these reductions have put increasing pressure on the Victorian Housing Commission to become, to a large degree, self-financing? Will the Minister comment on the claim of the 'Shelter Victoria' group that new public housing and rent rebates for the poorest third of public housing tenants are being paid for by working class Commission tenants and buyers and not by the community as a whole? Does the Minister agree with the claim that this redistribution of subsidies away from lower income earners defeats the aim of Commission housing? If so, will he assure the Senate that the Government will take whatever action is possible to prevent the introduction of market rents and escalating interest rates within the Commission so as to ensure the maintenance of low cost Commission housing for those families and individuals on low and moderate incomes? 
I wish to say a few words in support of what  Senator Harradine  has said. No doubt, he is aware of action being taken in some States, particularly Tasmania. I am particularly aware of the work being done by organisations in Victoria. Very good work is being done in New South Wales as well. It seems to me that those organisations are unable to expand their activities into new areas and to do work which is very valuable to the community. I believe that there is a limitation on what they can do with their present allocation of funds. Most of them are dependent upon charity- upon support from churches and other bodies. I believe that a little more money spent in that direction would be of enormous advantage in saving people from certain troubles. 
We are speaking of a small amount of money. For example, people might not marry unwisely if they had an opportunity of discussion. The cost to the community of people marrying unwisely would be many times the amount which needs to be spent in that area. Because people marry unwisely we have more judges, more social problems with children and so forth. I think that money spent in that direction would be of infinitely more value to the community. I support what  Senator Harradine  said. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note or the paper. 
Unfortunately the statement of the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  will not appear in  Hansard  and, because of the time it will take, I will not read it into  Hansard.  I hope it will be incorporated in  Hansard  at some time, when reason prevails in the Senate, so that honourable senators will be able to read it. The statement relates to the recommendations of the Senate committees, in particular the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Because of my motion  Senator Cavanagh  will not be able to deny other honourable senators, including members of his own party, the opportunity to speak on this matter. 
The statement which was put down- as it was only tabled and not incorporated in  Hansard,  I will have to describe it and go through it very briefly- is one which relates to the Government's response to two reports of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs; one relating to the scrutiny of Bills and the other relating to the delegation of parliamentary authority. The response comes one year after the two Committee reports were put down in the Senate. That, of course, is not within the six-month period of the Government's undertaking. It is unfortunate that it has come to the Senate right on the death knock of this session, so it is difficult for honourable senators actually to have the chance to read it and respond properly to it. 
The position is this: The Senate Committee put down two reports. The basic effect of them was to suggest to the Parliament that a scrutiny of Bills committee ought to be set up by the Parliament- it would be a relatively small committee- and that it ought to operate in a manner similar to that of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances when it deals with regulations and ordinances. Such a committee would then be in a position to investigate Bills and to discuss and consider the civil liberties implications of such Bills. It would be able also to investigate the matter of the delegation of parliamentary authority and other such matters of a technical nature which tend to be overlooked when Bills are considered in this Parliament. When Bills are considered in the Parliament so many issues become political and, at that stage, the other matters are no longer considered. Therefore, the defects which might exist in Bills are ignored. In view of the statement now made by the Attorney-General, I shall read from the statement I made when I tabled the report of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee last year. This is taken from the tabled statement. I said: 
In assessing the need for such a committee we noted that many Bills come before the Parliament which contain provisions that: Significantly interfere with personal rights and liberties; delegate powers which, arguably, should not be delegated at all; delegate powers to affect rights,  liberties  and obligations without providing an opportunity for the exercise of those powers to be reviewed either by the Parliament itself or by an independent body; or delegate powers to impose obligations without any clearly defined guidance as to who is to impose them, upon whom and in which circumstances. 
The effect of the Attorney-General's statement is to deny the statements we made in the report because the conclusion of the Government is that there is no need for such a committee. Presumably, there is no need for such a committee because the situations, which we claim occur, do not occur. As  Chairman  of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee, I stand by what the Committee said. I shall run through the Attorney-General's statement briefly. It contains assertions which positively amaze me. It is a short statement. It absolutely refuses and rejects the recommendations of the Senate Committee. In my view, it is insulting to the two Committee reports under consideration because of its failure to accept or discuss the details or evidence which we provided. It is misleading in the statements made in it. In order to enable honourable senators to read what I am saying in the light of the Attorney-General's statement, I appeal to honourable senators to permit the incorporation of the Attorney-General 's statement in  Hansard.  I seek leave,  Mr President,  to have the statement incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the proceedings of the Senate. 
I give notice that four sitting days after today I shall move: 
That regulation 20 of the Australian Federal Police (Discipline) Regulations, as contained in Statutory Rules 1979 No. 211, and made under the Australian Federal Police Act 1979, be disallowed. 
-I rise to say that I support the Opposition on this clause. I did give notice of opposition to the whole clause. I believe, for the reason that  Senator Tate  has given, that this is an unwise clause. I believe also that it includes in it the possibility that people who may, by investigation made by the Commission, obtain evidence which would be useful to them in any prosecution they may make or in civil proceedings, may not be able to give that evidence. This is a highly unwise clause and, therefore, I oppose it. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 35 agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 36. 
I will say only this:  Senator Mason  has been speaking to the wrong clause. The amendment was put by me earlier. It has been accepted by the Government. The Government is now moving one in the same terms, and that will be carried. Amnesty International originally suggested that it was an excellent amendment. It is now a Government amendment, and I support it. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 13 and 14- by leave-taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 15. 
-The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  will move in regard to anonymity an amendment in identical terms to the one which I have given notice. I certainly support the amendment. I take it that the Attorney does not wish me to move my amendment in its present form. A similar one has been moved by the Government. Therefore I will be happy to defer. 
If I may speak very briefly to the motion and move for the adjournment of the debate. The position has been considered by the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs to which it is proposed to refer this matter. Some difficulties arise in this matter and require further investigation. It is a proposal to investigate legal aid services in the Australian Capital Territory. It is limited in that way. From reading the report, there are matters which indicate there ought to be investigation into them, but the question is whether the reference should be limited in that way. It is difficult to investigate legal aid in a Territory and not as it applies in other places, by comparison. In other States there are legal aid commissions, some of which have not even started operation yet. Therefore, I can see some difficulty in doing a large scale operation with them at this time. Because members of the Committee want to reconsider and discuss the position with those proposing this motion to see how it should be formulated and we cannot contemplate getting on with it during the recess period, I therefore seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-This amendment is in terms identical with those of an amendment which  Senator Bonner, Senator Puplick  and I had proposed to move but, for reasons set out in a public statement- which I  will seek to have incorporated in  Hansard- we  will not now move. We will neither support it nor oppose it. We will not vote on the amendment. If there is a division upon it we will withdraw from the chamber. I have set out our attitude in regard to this amendment and in regard to that which would insert a new clause 16a. I will not repeat what I say now if that amendment is presented by the Opposition. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  the statement which I and my two colleagues made explaining why, in order to get this debate on, we have been prepared to forgo offering these amendments. 
No. I am not bothering about that. 
Leave granted. 

 The statement read as follows- 

We refer to the current debate in the Senate on the Human Rights Commission Bill and to the amendments which we have supported to strengthen the proposed Human Rights Commission and, to ensure that it would operate effectively in compliance with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. 
We note that, after debate on the Bill proceeded for limited periods on the Tuesday and Wednesday of last week, the Bill has been placed No. 22 on Thursday's Notice Paper, and its further debate during this session is now in doubt. 
It has been made clear to us that the Government is concerned that an amendment proposed by  Senator Missen  and supported by us and other senators, providing for enforcement proceedings for human rights violations by way of civil proceedings, is likely to be pased by the Senate and will not be acceptable to the Government. The Government is likewise concerned with the proposed amendment to delete pans of Clause 1 S ( because of their freedom of information implications). The Government is accordingly not willing to permit further debate on the Bill unless it is assured that neither amendment will be made to the Bill. 
We therefore have given serious reconsideration to that situation. We are firmly of the opinion that such amendments are necessary to ensure that the Human Rights Commission Bill has 'teeth' and will provide suitable and effective remedies for complaints. 
However, we are also concerned that the Commission should be created at an early date and realise that it cannot be done in the face of such Government opposition which would be decisive, in any event, in the House of Representatives. We have already said, in the second reading debate, that we support the Bill and the establishment of the Commission, even in a limited form, and that we look for later action to strengthen the Commission. 
We believe that the lack of enforcement rights is a grave defect and a limitation on the effective operation of the legislation. 
In the circumstances, we will not, in the further debate on this Bill, proceed with the two proposed amendments, which the Government opposes and requires their omission as vital to the passage of the Bill. However, we will continue to press for the other amendments sought by us. We hope thereby to facilitate the resumption of debate on this Bil! before the end of this session. 
We also refer to our initial amendments which proposed increased powers for the Commission to undertake investigations of human rights issues on its own initiative and also to widen the access and standing of persons to lodge complaints with the Commission. These proposals have now been agreed to and are picked up in the Attorney-General's tabled amendments. 16 November 1979 Canberra 
I want very briefly to put a question to the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack).  At the end of his second reading speech, the Attorney said that, save for one or two amendments, the Commissioner for Community Relations would continue to operate and his powers would not be affected. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs,  Mr MacKellar,  has been reported by the ethnic Press in a weekly selection produced by that Department dated 30 November 1979. An interview he had with //  Globois  reported as follows: 
When asked about the imminent disappearance of the office of the Commissioner for Community Relations, the Minister replied: 'The Federal Government has decided to create a Commission for Human Rights, and one of the Commissioners of this body will be responsible for watching out for racial discrimination. The present office for Community Relations will therefore be superfluous'. 
I ask the Attorney which is right- what he assured us at the end of his second reading speech, or what the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs now says? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 7 November 1979. 
Are Australia's full-time post-graduate research scholars receiving a salary equivalent to only 38 per cent of that received by research assistants. 
What consideration has the Government given to (a) increasing the annual award to post-graduate research scholars; and (b) the establishment of an independent tribunal to determine future levels of remuneration to these research scholars. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 20 November 1 979: 
1 ) What special measures are being taken by the Australian Wheat Board to cope with this year's massive wheat harvest. 
Have approximately 2.5 million tonnes of wheat in New South Wales been placed into temporary ground storage. 
What action is proposed to ensure that the grain remains safe from mice. 
